ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U1	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am again pleased to welcome you to the new working week. We will begin the Monday session of the 6th plenary session of the 2nd Instung Class. First of all, everyone has an excellent opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the University of Tartu Act and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and their precursors. In processing these two draft laws, the Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on the Flag and Registers of Ships and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws and the Law amending the Income Tax Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when processing this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts. The Bureau will decide on the procedure in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. We're going to the presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing. It's next on the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the 6th working week agenda of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. By 78 votes to one, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed. Is Tarmo Tammel a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U4	I wanted to ask you before the vote, but since the vote has been carried out, the agenda has been confirmed. Look at today's agenda. The first two points are reading the bill, points 3 and 4 are asking questions and point 5 is reading the bill again. I have never noticed in the time of the Riigikogu that there is still some kind of draft law to be read after enquiries. It would have been logical, after all, that the first three points are reading the bill, because all Members of Parliament are probably interested in taking part in the draft legislation, but the questioning is very specific, for certain group ambassadors.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U5	Yes, thank you! Here, yes, there are enquiries in the meantime, but this does not prevent our honourable Riigikogu members from actively thinking about all points and, if necessary, voting. Thank you. Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'd like to welcome an honorable colleague. Wouldn't it be reasonable to ask questions on Mondays before the law comes? This will give them the opportunity to proceed the next day if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U7	Thank you. During the previous composition of the Riigikogu, we adopted amendments to the Home and Working Procedures Act, according to which it is not only possible to discuss inquiries on Mondays, but also to ensure that our work load does not become too high on other days. And this order was adopted by the Riigikogu Board. Hanno Pevkur, is this a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U8	Yeah, it is. Thank you. May I ask the opinion or position of the Riigikogu's board of directors on the basis of the Urmas Kruus question, how will it be in the future: are there enquiries before and for the draft laws, or will we put the cross-breath back and forth? The right question is raised. If the bill is not in progress, it can continue the next day. If an inquiry is not made, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act will not allow us to reply to an inquiry on Tuesday, and it will be postponed to the next week. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U9	Thank you. Yes, I actually understand this problem, and we will discuss it at the Bureau meeting tomorrow. But let's go to today's agenda. We have five items on the agenda, and at the end we have the opportunity to register for a speech in a free microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U10	The first is the first reading of the 62nd draft law amending the arms law, the state fee law and the strategic goods law (transposition of the Firearms Directive) initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like the buzzing to go down! I'd like the Secretary of the Interior, Mart Helme, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U11	Dear Riigikogu! Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Yes, the draft, which was read out by the honourable speaker, concerns Directive 2017/853 of the European Parliament and of the Council, adopted on 17 May 2017, amending Council Directive 91/471/EEC on control of the acquisition and possession of weapons. Member States are obliged to enforce the Directive and, in fact, the deadline for the implementation of the Directive was already 14 September 2018, but as Estonia has only partially transposed the Directive, infringement proceedings have been opened against Estonia. We are in a situation where we need to move forward with the treatment and adoption of this directive. Much of the requirements mentioned in the directive have actually already been transposed in the Republic of Estonia, but there are things that need to be moved forward and clarified. Let's get to the point in a little more detail. What will this directive change, and what will it complement? Firstly, the directive introduces the classification of weapons in classes. According to the Firearms Directive, the Arms Act includes the classification of weapons in Classes A, B and C. These classes are harmonised under the Directive across all Member States of the European Union, which ensures that they are better handled in accordance with the rules and that, for example, they are particularly important for shooting sports or hunting purposes, they move from one Member State to another. Since different documents are needed in the European Union when dealing with weapons, it is important to establish uniform weapons classes in order, for example, to enable our Police and Border Guard Board to issue proper documents and to treat Estonian citizens in a uniform manner with nationals of other Member States. Secondly, the amendments concerning firearms and high capacity cartridges authorised for civil use on the basis of a weapons permit provide that, in the case of firearms in civil use, the capacity of their tray is significantly reduced. For example, restrictions are imposed on the possession and possession of high capacity semi-automatic central fire cartridges. Firearms such as pistols fitted with a cartridge tray that holds more than 20 rounds and a gun fitted with a cartridge tray that holds more than 10 rounds are no longer allowed in civil circulation. However, weapons with a larger clip and some other firing properties are allowed to engage in the relevant sports activities by athletes and holders of acoustic weapons; defence allies to carry out their duties under the Defence League Act; weapons collectors, including museums, with a view to preserving their historical heritage and culture; arms dealers, and so on a very simple basis, so that the persons covered by the respective exception may be able to obtain weapons and cartridges with limited turnover; as well as persons whose name has been registered with such a firearm prior to the entry into force of the amendment to the law. I think this is a very important point, because the question has been repeatedly asked whether the transposition of the directive means collecting a larger tray already in circulation or some other non-compliant weapons. No, it doesn't. Thirdly, the requirements of the persons involved in shooting sports, shooting clubs and organisations are specified. Requirements are necessary to identify shooters who need the right to handle firearms with dangerously large cartridges and who will receive this right. With regard to shooting sport, it is also done that certain obligations are laid down for shooting clubs: firstly, the club must have at least one shooter; secondly, the club keeps records of members and the competitions, exercises and participants organised by the club; thirdly, the club organises at least one shooting event per year, which can be attended by all members of the shooting club; and fourthly, the club informs the Police and Border Guard Board of the termination of the rights of a shooting athlete. Go on. The procedure for the transfer of arms and ammunition within the European Union will be changed. The European firearms passport shall no longer be affixed with a class B firearm for hunting purposes. If such a weapon is to go hunting in another Member State, for example, then the country of destination must apply for prior authorisation and a single permit from the Police and Border Guard Board for the removal of the weapon from Estonia. The European firearms pass is carried with a Class C acoustic weapon, which gives the right to travel in other Member States without prior authorisation from the country of destination and with a one-off permission from the Estonian State. If you want to travel with an un shot weapon, it is the same as in the case of firearms that you are obliged to apply for prior authorisation first from the country of destination and, on this basis, to remove the weapon from Estonia from our PBA. The requirements for the collection of weapons will also be changed. According to the draft, the collection may be established and maintained for historical, cultural, scientific and cultural purposes by an Estonian citizen of 18 years of age or by an alien who holds an Estonian residence permit or who resides in Estonia on the basis of a right of residence, or by a registered legal person on the basis of a collection permit issued by the Police and Border Guard Board, if possession of a weapon does not endanger the security of the Estonian state or public order. The PBGB will assess the suitability of the person when issuing a collection permit and involve the Defence Police Department in order to assess more fully the possible security threats. As automatic firearms, including machine guns, and more dangerous ammunition and firearms are permitted to be collected, the State must, when granting the permit, check the background of the person in such a way as to prevent dangerous and high-powered firearms from falling into the hands of suspicious contingents. There is one important restriction, a fundamental restriction, which is the fact that the collection of firearms of more than 12,7 mm calibre and smooth-bore weapons and ammunition manufactured after 1945 is prohibited. And last but not least, there is the obligation to create electronic information exchange. The Directive provides for the obligation to establish an effective electronic exchange of information between the Police and Border Guard Board and arms dealers. Today, much of the information exchange takes place on paper. In order to be able to switch to a fully electronic exchange of information, it is necessary to complete the arms law and create a new weapons register. At the moment, there is a situation where a large part of the information is transmitted on paper. However, the information provided on paper media accumulates, it takes considerably more time to check it, and situations are quite common when a person is able to register a newly acquired weapon with the police before the dealer's documentation has reached the PBA. The creation of a register also means that the exchange of information between countries will become significantly smoother. This is briefly summing up everything that is now to be said in introductory terms. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U12	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U13	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Correct me if I'm wrong, but I got the impression that all sub-categories of military service weapons, from AK4 and Gallic to MP5, will be included in this class A or A weapon. In addition to the defence allies, in which case, I understand, there is no limit, and they may own these weapons or the brand of weapons, and reserveists, are also very important in ensuring Estonia's defence capabilities. There's probably a couple of dozen of them in this saloon. I don't understand exactly why this bill makes the difference that a member of the Defence League may have the kind of brand of weapons used as a service weapon, but defence reserveists, including reserve officers, may not. And once again, fix it if I misunderstood, but that's exactly what it looked like.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U14	I don't think that's the right impression. I believe that these obligations and restrictions concern everyone. The question is, what regulation are the people who have these weapons at their disposal? We know very well that the Defence League is subject to requirements, where and how, as in the case of hunters, as in the case of shooting athletes, they must hold these weapons. Guns can't just lie on a table or under a table, it's for storage and use. I may have misunderstood something or not fully mastered the information myself, but I have the impression that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U15	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U16	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Do you think that members of political youth associations should be allowed to use weapons?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U17	After all, the Act of the Republic of Estonia makes it very clear that people under the age of 18 cannot have the right to have a weapon. However, as far as I am aware, there are no limits to the fact that these people under the age of 18 should not go to shooting ranges under the hands of an instructor and practice the use of a weapon under secure conditions. To be honest, I don't see a problem here. When you ask for my personal opinion, I remember how a person who is still a member of the Riigikogu and who I do not see in this Chamber went to Chechnya many years ago. The war in Chechnya had not yet ended, but he was amazed at the way little boys, children, handled guns freely and effortlessly there. And then when he asked the people that the babies, if you don't think these kids could shoot themselves or shoot others like that, they said, "No, they've learned from the ground, they've practiced, they've seen and they know that the gun is dangerous and the gun has to be used only for certain purposes." So my personal view is that knowing weapons, sensing the dangers of weapons is much better than playing some kind of computer game where they kill dozens and hundreds of people. In their opinion, it is not about pain or suffering, but it is a game, and real weapons are also a game. I think it's good if they realize in the shooting range that real guns aren't a game.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U18	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U19	Thank you. Good Minister, let me ask you a more general question. We have the general principle that we transpose European Union directives separately from national law. Since the draft is quite voluminous and the explanatory memorandum is even more extensive, can you confirm that, in this case, only the changes resulting from the European Union directives and national regulation or national changes that have been your wish or the desire of the ministry have really not been introduced here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U20	In fact, the transposition of this directive started already in 2017. After all, we also remember from the time of the previous Riigikogu that some part of it we took away the memory of a certain amount of it is cheating on me earlier. No points have been included in this draft by me and under the pressure of our party, at the initiative of our members. I therefore dare say that this directive has been transposed as it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U21	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U22	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! As we know, the American Conservatives have been opposed to gun restrictions for decades, and I am very pleased that the Estonian Conservatives have so enthusiasticly come along with this initiative in Brussels and support this initiative. I appreciate that. You mentioned the restrictions on the clips. Do you personally consider these restrictions to be reasonable, as set out in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U23	When I tell you my entirely sincere opinion, I do not think that the whole arms economy should be so thoroughly and so restrictively implemented. That's my personal opinion. But Estonia is a Member State of the European Union, the adoption of the directive is mandatory for the Member States, and I do not think that Estonia should start a war with the European Commission on this issue. All the more so because there are, yeah, certain limitations that I think might not be, including those that concern the cartridges. At the same time, however, this directive is not so repressive as to prohibit any kind of possession or use of weapons by hunters, defence allies, shooters. Since we all know that the European Union is such a patchwork, where finding compromises is not easy, and there are countries where the use of weapons and the culture of weapons are much older than we in Estonia, even if we take our northern neighbour, Finland, where there was a very passionate break in peaks on the same directive, I think that here the Commission has sought and found a certain balance in communication and coordination between the Member States within the European Union. Of course, I cannot speak on behalf of passionate hunters, shooting athletes or otherwise arms enthusiasts, certainly there are many differences of opinion, but I think we can live with this directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U24	Thank you. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I got a little confused about the mag capacity question. I'll give you a simple example of a Glock pistol. As a rule, the pistols have 15 to 16 cartridges in their trays, whereas some Glock models can also be fitted with 20 cartridges. Does this mean that the gun is already automatically a category A weapon, or that only this larger ointment is prohibited in civil circulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U26	The directive clearly speaks of a pistol fitted with a cartridge tray that can hold more than 20 rounds. That means the 20 bullets are still within the scope of the permit. Over 20 rounds, yeah. I don't know the weapons business so well that I can tell you how changing these clips is, what the clips are like. I'm sorry! I don't have any weapons personally. Yeah, I've got two antique guns, those furnishings, but they don't have any clips. I don't know about my incompetence about the possibility and practicality or inpracticality of changing these clips, the inability to comment. The directive says that in civil circulation, no more than 20 rounds are allowed and no more than 10 rounds in the case of guns. What it means, technically, I don't know how to comment, I'm really sorry, but I'm stupid.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U27	Thank you. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The question of whether the transposition of this European Union directive could make it difficult for shooting athletes to travel outside the European Union. And let me get this straight. The shooters don't have that clip limit on them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U29	Yeah, you got it right, there's no clip limit for shooters. As far as travel is concerned, we are talking about travel within the European Union in this context. If you travel outside the European Union, you have to deal with bilateral relations in this area, and that still means applying for such permits, coordinating the relevant permits and issuing a suitable and acceptable authorisation for the country in question from our EPA.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U30	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U31	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I hope these antique weapons are still disarmed, otherwise you shouldn't have them at home. And a little clarification on the answer to one of the previous questions: you said that the adoption of the directive is mandatory, no, the directive must be transposed. Regulations are those which are either directly applicable or, in principle, need to be directly transposed. When transposing the directive, the state can choose how one or the other regulation will be transposed, and for that we have this bill on the table now. But I have such a very simple and brief question for you to continue with the first question. I understand that if this is now a direct transposition of the European Union directive and you did not put your nails in it, then I understand that you are subject in this case to the European Union's dictatorship in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U32	Yeah, well, that's kind of a spiteful question now. First of all, I'm gonna say yes, these two guns are unarmed. One of them is not exactly a gun, he is a butaphore 18th - century gun that has been used in France as a prop for an 18th - century film. So he's never made a bang, either initially or now. The other is some kind of 19th-century hunting rifle, which is also completely unarmed. So even if the police have to check, they can only be used as a means of impact, like a stick. As regards the transposition of the directive now, as I said, the directive has been adapted. The Directive has been adapted for a long time. The directive has been here, as far as I know, in the various committees, and it has not been literally transposed, but is still with our small adaptations. Which ones exactly, I don't dare speculate here right now. But when it comes to submitting to the European Commission's dictation, it is not because I have never concealed that all the Member States of the European Union, not just Estonia, even a large country such as Germany, have an inevitable sovereignity deficit in relation to the membership of this group of states. We have to take that into account. If at one point we can no longer live with this sovereignity disability, the British arrived there that they could no longer live with that sovereignity disability, as a result of Brexit. I do not want to promote any Exit here right now, but I believe that, without exception, all the Member States of the European Union agree, to some extent, with the delegation of sovereignty. It's about this critical mass, the critical boundary. In this case, I do not see that this directive would have such a sovereignity-enhancing effect that we should start to step up against it. It does not demilitarise or demobilise Estonia. This leaves us alone, and this is particularly important just for our defence union. It is not a repressive draft with retroactive force, a repressive directive that demilitarises or disarms people who already have previously raised weapons that do not fall under this classification. As I said to Mr. Kaljulaid, I think we can live with it. I think this is not the kind of draft that should cause some kind of passionate war of arms between the Republic of Estonia, the Government of Estonia, the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia and the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U33	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U34	Thank you very much. By the way, if you read about restrictions on the capacity of the trays, countries have very often introduced them after such mass shooting and terrorist incidents. That is why it has been decided to limit capacity. If I understand you correctly, you will not personally limit the capacity of the tray. Does this mean that you would not impose any restrictions at all, or that you would set this limit on another place, such as seventeen instead of ten? Can you perhaps give an example of the case in which a person could need a clip of more than ten bullets in civil circulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U35	Where it may be necessary is such a speculative question. But how do we know, chem chjort ne shutit, as the Russians say. I'm sorry, you can't use Russian here, but, well, I'll translate to "whatever the hell is funny about." All right, we never know. Street riots may occur, some other collisions may occur, terrorist attacks are not excluded. I do not think that people should be like sheep being slaughtered, as we have seen repeatedly in Western Europe, which is very pacified. I suggest you read about Lev Gumilyov's approaches to the Passionarity of societies and the resulting viability, survival and all that. It's very instructive. Everything he theorizes is, of course, very controversial, but thought-provoking. And if you're asking about mass shootings, it's now 100%, but more frequent mass shootings in the United States, by the way, in those states where gun laws are tougher than in those states where these laws are lighter. Clearly, the reason is that those who are terrorists, those who are mentally unstable, receive weapons either way. But those who know what a weapon is and how dangerous a weapon is can handle it more carefully. I think there's a pretty logical explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U36	Thank you. Madis Milling, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U37	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I realized that the exception would be made for civilians who belong to, for example, the War History Club, as we have a well-known Front Line club in Estonia, whose members handle large-scale weapons with bullet tapes. My question: is the derogation granted to them a direct consequence of the directive, or is this exception an addition from us, Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U38	Shooting club, yeah. But I read out a bunch of mandatory requirements that apply to these clubs, and they hold this thing under control to some extent. Sort of. As I said, at least one instructor, accounting for members, shooting competitions organised, counting participants in shooting exercises, at least one shooting sport in which everyone has to participate, and informing the PBA about the membership. So I think there's some kind of control here. If you ask whether we must and can treat these clubs as a potential threat, this is already a specific question that does not fall within the context of this draft, but should be submitted to our respective services.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U39	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U40	Thank you. I don't really see how civilians have to go to street riots with more than 20 bullet clips, but it's a very scary idea. But I'd come back to the militia. I found on page 8 of the explanatory memorandum a number of service weapons that were very common in the Defence Forces, Galil, AK-4, and on page 9, the officers' service pistol Heckler & Koch USP adds. These are weapons that can actually be used by many militias, even so that they can target their own weapons, or for whatever other reason. In the future, a militiaman can't have that weapon anymore. I'm reading out of this law. On page 9 of the explanatory memorandum, however, says that defence allies, collectors, etc. can possess these weapons. My question is very simple: why are the Defence Leagues given such a very strong advantage over the rest of the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U41	The difference is, the Defence League isn't a Defence Forcesman. The Defence League is a militia, and the militia must have his weapon at hand because he's not in service, he's not in the barracks, he's not at the gunnery, he can't get it right away. He's not mobilized in that sense, like he's a militia. But what's still important is that nobody in the Defence Forces who already has guns is going to pick them up. That, too, I emphasised earlier. But the difference is very large, the defence force and the militia are two very different things. When we are talking about the protection of the area, when we are talking about total defence, it is very important that those people who are concerned with the protection of the area and, in short, covering the entire territory of Estonia with defenceable men must, of course, have weapons at their disposal. Those in units, you don't think that these professional defence forces are gonna be keeping cannons, mortars and armored vehicles at home. Of course, these things are all where they're supposed to be. So here's the difference in logic. In fact, we all know that there is simply no organisation like our Defence Union in very many countries. There are certain analogs. There is also, of course, the example of Switzerland, which is even stronger than a degree. But basically, I don't think this bill will harm our defenses in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U42	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U43	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You spoke in your report about the need for further steps or steps to be taken in order to digitise this case when handling weapons, applying for and extending the weapons permit. Look, I go through this every five years. I have to, because I have a gun and I have to extend it every five years. Just in September, I went through all this, and I think it was digital. Now we had to take the exam. If there's some kind of safety code on paper in the police shooting range, it doesn't bother me, it's a festive act anyway, to go and do it once every five years. But I'm asking you what I didn't understand is why this gun license, when you go through all these trials, you get an extension of the gun permit, the old paper license was taken away. Now there's a weapons license somewhere digitally. Why can't we keep the permit on paper? There's a driver's license on plastic. Why can't a permit be in the form of a document?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You did not listen carefully enough, this directive does not concern the permit. The Directive provides for the obligation to establish an effective electronic exchange of information between the PBGB and arms dealers. This means that the arms dealers have to enter electronically that Mart Helme came and bought a gun with a calibre, a permitted cartridge. It will be registered there, and the arms dealer will send this message electronically by clicking on the PBA immediately. Then I'm gonna go to the P.P.A. and I'm gonna run these things by myself. They've got the information. Until now, the situation was that I went to register the gun, but it said that wait-wait-wait, where did you get it, we have no record that you bought it from anywhere, the arms dealer hasn't let us know anything. But the arms dealer mailed that message maybe three days later or whatever it took to get that information back. I was in the PBA the next day, but no information was received on the purchase of weapons. That is why, but also to ensure the adequacy and speed of the exchange of information between Member States, the creation of such an electronic register is necessary and required.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U45	Thank you. Looks like there's no more questions to ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U46	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U47	Aivar Sõerd was able to press again. Since there were quite few questioners, we'll give Aivar a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U48	Thank you for your answer. I understand that for the arms dealers. But if I'm the owner of the gun, then until then, I had my weapons license in paper form, but now it's gone. Now there's an electronic weapons permit in the register somewhere. Why does it have to be like this? Why can't it be like a driver's license, which is also in the form of a document?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U49	I can't tell you exactly one hundred percent why you haven't been given that license between your wallets on some kind of smart card or a plastic card. I imagine the logic here is that if the police want to check for your weapons permit, they're gonna snatch your data in and get that permit from the database right away, and you don't need to carry it with you. This is exactly the same as a technical passport for a car, which is not required to carry anymore. Here people may remember that there was a time when the car's technical passport had to come with you, otherwise you were suspected that you might have gotten this car from somewhere, I don't know where, maybe on a criminal road. There is no need for it today, because the policeman will immediately take and check out who owns this car, whether this car has authorised users, etc. I imagine it's pretty much the same logic for a weapons permit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U50	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. However, Aivar Sõerd may propose, in the course of the procedure for this draft, that those physical weapons permits that were brought back the last time we dealt with the same arms law be abolished. Now I'm opening negotiations. Oh, I'm sorry! The Commission also wishes to speak, and the rapporteur is Urve Tiidus, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Weapons Act, the State Fees Act and the Strategic Goods Act was discussed in the Legal Affairs Committee on 14 October. As can be seen from the title of the draft, this is a transposition of the European Union Firearms Directive. Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior, Marju Aibas, Legal Adviser to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, and Sven Põierpaas, Adviser to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy, were invited to the meeting. The Minister presented the draft in detail and inspired a number of questions. To begin with, Kaja Kallas asked whether the Directive also set an age limit for the collection of firearms. The Minister said that there is no age limit for collection. If it is considered that, for example, a 93-year-old person must lose his or her right to arms because of his or her health, such as senility, other legal measures will allow this, rather than the directive in question. The chairman of the committee said that there was a need for clarity regarding the time limit for the entry into force of the law in relation to the requirements of the clips. According to the draft law 62 is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2020, but concerns were expressed as to whether there would be sufficient time to inform the public at the current pace of the procedure. The Karilaid asked whether it would be reasonable to postpone the date of entry into force of the law to 3 months, until 1 April 2020. Counsellor of the Ministry Marju Aibas explained that in relations with the European Commission, the deadline for Estonia's alignment was set for September. Unfortunately, as we have already heard here, no amendments to the law could be prepared by then, and it is now hoped that the law will enter into force on 1 January. The committee president explained that the Committee on Legal Affairs wanted to involve various stakeholders within the framework of the draft, in which case it would be necessary in November, but that there might still be doubts as to the date of entry into force. Counsellor of the Ministry Põierpaas stressed that with the draft legislation that was being discussed, everyone will remain entitled to use it as one of the reasons for the discussion, which has more extensive cartridges this year. This is called the grandfather clause: persons who currently own the cartridge, regardless of the circumstances and purpose, can continue to own it. It does not seem to require an extension of the date of entry into force. When the law enters into force, new rights will be examined through new legal prism and certain firearms acquired for personal and property protection will be subject to restrictions from 1 January. That was the position of the minister's advisor. Mrs Heljo Pikhof asked for clarification as to what would happen if a person was diagnosed with a psychiatric illness, resulting in the loss of the right to possess a weapon or to collect weapons. So what's the procedure? The Secretary of the Ministry explained that the permit is valid for five years and that every five years a medical examination is carried out again to obtain the corresponding certificate. There is also practice in exceptional circumstances where the hospital or court concerned informs the PBA in relation to the weapons permit. As this draft does not concern such situations and procedures, it was simply part of the debate. Member of the Commission, Mrs Kallas, recalled that when the Firearms Directive on which the law was based was discussed in the European Parliament, the debate was intense. The Finnish and Czech ambassadors who then adopted the directive were not satisfied with the damage to national defence based on the possession of civilian weapons and the possibility of retaliation. They asked whether the same arguments could be used in the Estonian context. According to the Minister of the Interior, the Firearms Directive does not concern the Defence League and the weapons it uses. The Minister of the Interior also referred to Ants Laaneots, a member of the Riigikogu, saying that Estonia has a light weaponry of 80,000 people. The Minister also acknowledged that there is no shortage of weapons in Estonia. There was also a question of whether the draft should not go procedurally to the National Defence Committee or whether the Committee on Legal Affairs should not ask for the opinion of the National Defence Committee. This thought was fully supported. The question of Tarmo Kruusimäe was about weapons manufactured and deactivated after 1945 and the possibility of ordering weapons accessories online and the cheap possibility of converting them into automatic weapons. More specifically, the Member of the Commission was interested in whether the current measures are sufficient to prevent the reactivation of deactivated weapons. The Ministry's explanation was that the deactivation requirements are set at European Union level and are constantly being supplemented, which is why it is not easy to reactivate the deactivated weapon, or to reactivate it. For example, the latest addition to the Arms Act has included an obligation to disable the weapons frame. Cases in which, according to modern requirements, deactivated weapons have been made fit for firing, the Ministry of the Interior does not know or have previously identified them. Mr Breivel, Member of the Commission, highlighted some of the shortcomings of the current arms law. In fact, each hunter has a certain amount of bullets, while sometimes hunters have more bullets. There was also the view that the part of the arms law governing ammunition supplies had not been sufficiently thought out. The Estonian law is also stricter as regards the supply of bullets concerning weapons collectors. In the European Union, the amount of 50 rounds per cartridge model in Estonia is not limited. It is claimed that this restriction makes it more difficult for collectors to exchange bullets among themselves. This topic was still discussed during the sitting. The obligation for athletes to participate in competitions at least once every 12 months under the Directive was also touched. This requirement is not considered redundant by the Ministry as this sport uses high-powered firearms and the athlete needs to develop his skills continuously. The specific issue was that the Firearms Directive does not regulate the requirements for the quantity of cartridges for weapons collectors. But this is done by Estonian law for security reasons. In the past, there were no restrictions on collector ammunition, which led to the dual situation that the collector was authorised to acquire unlimited quantities of ammunition used in modern firearms, i.e. also in automatics and machine guns. This is a legal deficiency that could threaten the security of the state and this draft will remedy it. According to the Ministry of the Interior, agreement has been reached on the limit quantity of cartridges with collectors and stakeholders. However, one Member of the Commission, Mr Breivel, expressed the opinion that there was no support for the limit amount of rounds. The need to continue the debate was seen here. There was also a question of whether the weapon to be collected should be deactivated. The answer was no. Clarification was also sought as to why so much has been exceeded from the deadline for the procedure. The Minister and Advisor explained the reasons behind the stretching of the process. Although the draft law was ready early, the transposition of the directive was decided on a partial basis and not to come before Parliament before the elections, followed by negotiations on the coalition of the new government, and some reasons were still there. These are the reasons why part of the directive has become a law, but the other part has not yet. There were other questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe asked whether the Ministry of the Interior was dealing with the restoration of the firing capability after the deactivation of weapons too lightly. And here the advisor explained that since the beginning of the history of the Republic of Estonia, parts of firearms have been dealt with in exactly the same way as a complete firearm. For example, if a private individual wants to acquire a complete gun, he or she will have to go through the application for permits and various checks. The exact same procedure applies when essential components of a firearm are purchased. Kaja Kallas recalled that the debate in the European Parliament often highlighted the growing threat of terrorism and asked how to prevent people from using the collection of weapons as a cover for the collection of the arsenal. At this point, Mr Breivel commented that this is a matter of trust and that collectors of arms are generally controlled persons. The Secretary of the Ministry explained that the issue of the limit quantity of ammunition intended for collectors' weapons has been discussed in meetings with collectors. As a compromise, the Ministry of the Interior has specified the law so that the number of cartridges to be collected does not exceed 50 rounds per cartridge model. This requirement applies to those whose production started after 1945. But most historical weapons enthusiasts collect weapons from World War I and World War II, and they are not limited to 50 rounds. For example, if a collector succeeds in finding 200 Parabellum rounds for a 1938 weapon, it is not prohibited or subject to a quantity limit clause. The time for the opinion of the National Defence Committee was also specified. This will be done after the draft has been submitted to plenary. Counselor Mrs Rikart pointed out that the opinion of the non-profit organisations involved in the procedure should also be sought in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. The Commission then took decisions: to propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda on 21 October, with the agreement of Riho Breivel, Kaja Kallas, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Urve Tiidus; to propose that the first reading be closed, while a consensus be put in place; to propose a deadline for amendments of 6 November, a consensus; to appoint Urve Tiidus as rapporteur, also in this consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U52	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu can also ask questions to the representative of the committee, two questions for one minute. Please! But it seems there are no questions. Thank you. We go to the negotiations, only the representatives of the political groups can speak, 5 + 3 minutes. Can I have a call, please? It seems that there is no wish for negotiations this time either. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 62. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 6 November at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U53	We will go to the second item on the agenda: First reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Disease Control, the State Tax Act, the Feed Act, the Food Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mart Järvi, Minister of Rural Affairs of the Speaker's Board, please. The duration of the report is up to 20 minutes; all applicants can ask two questions, which last one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The development of a draft law amending the Law on Animal Disease Control, the State Tax Act, the Feed Act, the Food Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act is due to the need to bring these laws into line with the Euro Directives. We want to implement Regulation (EU) 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which regulates the conduct of official controls and which applies on 14 December 2019. Now for the most important changes. Full inspection of non-Union feed entering Estonia at the border inspection post shall be waived. Instead, the focus will be on the control of feedingstuffs which may pose a higher risk to animal and human health and the environment. In the EU as a whole, a risk-based approach is applied to the control of feed conformity. The Feedingstuffs Act amends the principle of financing official controls and other official activities. The amendment of the Act lays down the same principles for financing operations as those laid down in the Veterinary Organisation Act and the Food Act. The current State fee to be collected for operations shall be replaced by a supervisory fee. This remuneration system takes account of the actual costs associated with operations and allows flexibility for different types of companies. The powers of authorised veterinarians shall be restricted. The certification and verification of conformity shall be carried out in the future by official veterinarians. The veterinarians authorised to conclude an administrative agreement with the Food and Veterinary Office shall carry out the sampling operations provided for in the national programme for the control of animal diseases in the future. In addition, the provisions relating to the cost of the analysis of the additional sample in the event of a dispute arising from the expert's opinion shall be specified. Under the appeal procedure, the economic operator shall have the right to request that the original analysis, study or diagnosis documents be reviewed and, where appropriate, another analysis, study or diagnosis be carried out by another official laboratory. In this case, the costs shall be borne by the undertaking. The designation of official control sites for feed and food of non-animal origin shall be specified. This means that new procedures for the designation of official inspection sites at border crossing points will be introduced, as due to the new Official Control Regulation there will be differences in the procedures for their designation compared to the applicable law. The Food and Veterinary Office shall provide the European Commission with documentation of its intention to designate a border inspection post for inspection purposes and the European Commission shall verify whether the border inspection post concerned complies with the requirements or not. The current law does not provide for such an assessment by the European Commission. As a result of this change, the processing period for the application for the designation of the border inspection post will be extended by at least three to six months compared to the current procedure. As of 29 May 2019, four border inspection posts had been designated as inspectors for imports of food and feed of non-animal origin, and no additional border inspection posts have been designated for the last eight years. The border inspection posts control goods at higher risk, such as animals and animal products, meat, milk, etc. Control of food and feed of non-animal origin has been temporarily tightened, but the procedures for determining control sites do not change in substance. The right to designate places for official controls on feed and food of non-animal origin shall be exercised and maintained by the Member State. With regard to the places of official control, the European Union has harmonised the information to be made public on these places. Where official controls are carried out, non-animal food and feed for which a decision has been taken in the European Union to make it necessary to tighten their controls on entry into the Union temporarily due to known or emerging risks. As a general rule, imported feed and food of non-animal origin is subject to risk-based testing by the operator. The components of the hourly fee for food, feed and veterinary inspection and the method of calculation shall be specified. In the meantime, the hourly fee was calculated on the basis of the average salary of the supervisory officer and the average economic cost of the supervisory activities per supervisory officer. This cost did not include the cost of laboratory analyses, nor did the relevant costs of the central authorities be taken into account. On the basis of these components, the average hourly estimated fee was calculated on the basis of the average cost of local VTA authorities and border crossing points. The new activity-based costing method shall take into account the remuneration (including the central body and its support staff) related to the monitoring activities incurred in the previous calendar year and the actual economic and other related costs, including laboratory analysis, incurred in carrying out the operations. The remuneration for supervisory activities shall include the costs of the supervisory officers and other officials and staff involved in the activities of the supervisory authority in a proportionate manner. The hourly price of the surveillance service shall be obtained by dividing the actual costs of the surveillance activities by the number of hours required for monitoring. The organisation of the exchange of information between judicial authorities and the competent authority shall also be specified. According to the amendment, the law enforcement body, administrative body or government body shall immediately forward information on possible infringements related to the competence of the Food and Veterinary Office to the Food and Veterinary Office. Information shall be provided on any non-compliance which may pose a risk to animal health, human health, animal welfare or the environment, and on any non-compliance which has been committed with knowledge of the facts and which creates an incorrect perception. The provision relates to the implementation of the Regulation on official controls. The prohibition on the introduction into Estonia of pet animals not vaccinated against rabies from a country or territory outside the European Union is specified. From now on, only vaccinated pets can be introduced into Estonia. The draft law is expected to enter into force on 14 December 2019. A period of entry into force other than the general deadline is laid down in the provisions replacing the state fee with the supervisory fee. These provisions shall enter into force on 1 January 2020. In view of the fact that the payment of the state fee is a quarterly obligation of the feed business operator, it should apply until the end of the last quarter of 2019. The supervisory fee should start to be collected from 1 January 2020. The amendment to the State Fees Act relating to the restructuring of the feed monitoring financing system shall enter into force on 1 April 2020. In view of the fact that the feed business operator has to pay the state fee by 10 January 2020 on the basis of the quantity of feed processed in his undertaking in the last quarter of 2019, a reasonable period of time should be allowed for the Veterinary and Food Administration, as the holder of the state fee, to recover the unpaid state fee. That is, in short, all the legislative changes that the draft is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U55	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Yes, it is. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I understand from what you have said that the entrepreneur is obliged to pay for the analyses he is ordering. Can't there be cooperation with those who control it? It is not only the interest of the entrepreneur, it is the interest of everyone to have healthy animals and decent feed, etc. Doesn't that just cost the company extra?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U57	Yeah, in some places here, costs may increase, some may decrease. However, mandatory fees are laid down in a regulation directly applicable to the European Union. Fees shall be charged on a quantitative basis for the movement into and control of animals and products of animal origin, including feed of animal origin, into the Union. The rates are set out in the legislation. In addition, a compulsory fee is foreseen for the control necessary for the authorisation of a feed business, which was not initially planned, for example when it comes to determining the extent of the infringement or its impact. So these are the charges that are now in effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U58	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! At the beginning of your speech, you indicated that the general state fees would be replaced by a specific fee, given the amount of the specific cost, the amount of time involved and the associated costs. Can you tell whether, in terms of the state budget, this fee is cost-neutral and, if not, will there be more or less revenue in the state budget? And what does this mean for an undertaking: does this mean that the costs of an undertaking specifically controlled will increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U60	I will start with the fact that these legislative changes do not apply to the primary producer and, in the case of an appropriate feed business, the financial burden may be reduced. Under current law, state fees are to be paid annually, whether or not the competent authority carried out surveillance activities in the undertaking during that period. From now on, the feed business operator will not have to pay the state fee automatically each year. The obligation to pay shall arise only if the check has taken place. For example, in the case of a company with a reporting obligation which is exposed to a low risk and which is checked once every three years for two hours, the new average cost over the same period is approximately three times lower than the amount of the national fee of EUR 64 per year. A supervisory fee of EUR 66 is now due in three years. The three-year comparison shows a reduction in fees for this sector: before 192 euros, now 66 euros. If only one year is checked, there is a clear reduction. But in certain cases there will also be increases in prices, this concerns high-risk companies. In short, if there are cases where there is a need to pay for additional laboratory tests, the costs of laboratory tests will be increased and the fees will increase. So some cost decreases, some may grow. That's the situation. Is the fee cost-neutral or not? I'd rather be afraid that in general, there might be a small cost of overspending. But you asked for the state budget to be fulfilled. Rather, small growth may occur. But I can't predict exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U61	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U62	Thank you. The reason why I am asking is that I did not notice that, in the budgetary negotiations, there was a request for additional funding for the VTA. And you indicated, in fact, certain fees are decreasing. Thus, the question arose as to whether it would be possible to work normally on this amount of money in accordance with the new law. Maybe the system needs more money. I'm a little surprised that it hasn't been calculated whether that fee is cost-neutral or if it brings more money into the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U63	The costs of VTA should not increase. The costs may increase for a company that has a cost of laboratory analysis. In the case of VTA, we do not foresee any additional costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U64	Thank you. Looks like there's no more questions. Thank you to the Minister. Next, please come to the floor as the representative of the Committee on Rural Affairs on Merry Aart.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs on 14 October, attended by Merry Aart, Heiki Hepner, Kaido Hööbelson, Erkki Keldo, Urmas Kruuse, Ivari Padar, Andrus Seede and Tarmo Tamm, it was decided by consensus to appoint Merry Aart as rapporteur for the bill. There were also the Minister and other representatives of the Ministry who gave quite exhaustive answers to all the questions we asked. We learned that it is necessary to update or repeal several provisions of the Law on epizootic diseases, feed, food and veterinary management. The preparation of the draft was preceded by a development plan sent to the partners of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, and to the VTA, the Agricultural Research Centre and several organisations for their opinion. To be honest, it seems to me that the Minister and I have the same paper to use, and I do not think it makes sense to start reading exactly the same document here, which the Minister has already read. Perhaps I will stop at just a few questions which were discussed more in the Committee on Rural Affairs or on which the emphasis was put. We spoke in the Committee on Rural Affairs about a risk-based approach, a risk-based control of feed of non-animal origin. We wondered whether the list of such feedingstuffs had been drawn up, whether it existed. In response, if a risk-based approach is applied, the list does not exist at first. They shall be produced as necessary. There were a little more questions about the supervisory fees to be imposed instead of state fees. On my request, we received a table from the Ministry of Rural Affairs of Hendrik Kuu that contained some detail on these expenditures. It was not directly reviewed by the Commission, but this table shows how much laboratory costs the country pays for food and veterinary supervision. The costs of the Central Authority are not reflected here, but the hourly fee is EUR 12,3 and in total is about EUR 300000 per year. The cost components are generalised and will be charged for both laboratory costs and the related costs of the central body. The hourly fee could be EUR 20.25. The prognosis is about 860000 per year. The list of cost components is specified. The cost components include labour costs, facilities, equipment, tools, training for officials, transport and mission expenses, laboratory analyses and studies. The second is a quantity-based compulsory fee. So far, cost components are listed as a general list, and the list of cost components can be further specified. In the case of feed inspection, the state fee has so far been EUR 85000 and is paid four times per year by producers and processors according to the quantities handled. The seller-intermediary of feed shall pay a flat-rate amount once a year. First producers are exempted from this fee, as are sellers of packaged feed. From now on, there will be an hourly fee, as in the case of food supervision. It is compulsory to collect fees at the hourly rate when applying for a feed business licence. Sellers of packaged feed have to pay for this, for example retailing pet food is no longer a primary production. We were also talking about authorized veterinarians. Authorised veterinarians shall not be entrusted with the verification of the requirements laid down in the Feed Act. It's slowly gone to the supervisors anyway. However, veterinarians shall retain the sampling procedures provided for in the national programme for the control of animal diseases. A little more was said about border crossing points and official inspection sites, which are now being harmonised. We have eight border crossing points and checks, they have not been completed in eight years. The Committee on Rural Affairs also held a meeting on 15 October and decided by consensus to propose that 90 drafts be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 21 October 2019, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be one week, so that they be submitted by 5.15 p.m. on 28 October 2019. This is due to the fact that the entry into force of this law is quite urgent: it must enter into force on 14 December 2019. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U66	Any questions for the waitress? I don't think so. Thank you. Is there a wish to open negotiations? I don't think that's what I want either. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft 90 be completed. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U67	Let's go to the next item on the agenda: Urmas Kruuse, Valdo Randpere, Hele Everaus, Kalle Laaneti, Urve Tiidus, Ants Laaneots, Marko Mihkelson, Signe Kivi, Jüri Jaanson, Vilja Toomasti, Andrus Seeme, Toomas Kivimägi, Taavi Rõivas and Erkki Keldo, submitted on 24 September, including an inquiry into the need for foreign labour in the agricultural sector. Let me briefly remind you of the questioning procedure. First of all, the representative of the heirs will speak from the speaker for up to five minutes. The minister's reply may last 15 minutes and after that any member of the Riigikogu may ask the minister a question that lasts one minute. After that, we can start negotiations. Urmas Kruuse, representative of the speakers of the stand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! It is no secret that for some time there has been a shortage of labour in Estonian agriculture. It is especially felt in the summer when employers do not find substitutes for workers on holiday, and the farmer cannot always be sure that he has enough work to harvest the crop from the field. It's hard to find people who can clean up their berry and vegetable crops. It must be acknowledged that as life progresses, the local person is no longer very motivated to do hard agricultural work, while hiring foreign workers is limited to quotas. In April of this year, Maaleht wrote that in addition to seasonal work, this sector actually needs people who are ready to work in farms and elsewhere in the agricultural sector all year round. We can say that, while large farms have been using foreign labour for a long time, this wave has now reached smaller farms as well. Consequently, the members of our group have a number of questions for the Minister for Rural Affairs. On 13 September 2019, the Minister of the Interior sent a regulation aimed at dividing the immigration limit according to the reason for applying for a residence permit. In the press release, Home Secretary Helme stated that since residence permits for work are divided between the five areas with the biggest labour shortages , they are health care, education, information and communication, processing industry, transport and storage, it allows to bring doctors, teachers, engineers and other people from these areas to Estonia. This regulation gives the impression that agriculture is not a priority and that there is no need for additional labour. We have three questions for the Minister. Is there a shortage of labour in the agricultural sector? Is the lack of labour in the agricultural sector a priority that the government should address? Why is the agricultural sector not among the areas where there is the greatest need for foreign labour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U69	Thank you. Mart Järvik, Minister of Rural Affairs of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, heirs! The request for information submitted contains three questions on the situation of the labour force in agriculture. This is an important issue and I will take the questions to answer in the order in which they will be submitted. The first question: is there a shortage of labour in the agricultural sector? The issue of the need for labour in the agricultural sector needs to be looked at and addressed in two respects. First, permanent labour and second, temporary or seasonal labour. As far as permanent labour is concerned, the share of agriculture in permanent employment has decreased year by year. According to official data, in 1992 there were 80000 employees in agricultural production, while in 2018 there were only 15300 employees. So the reduction is almost six times. This represents only 2.3% of the total employment in Estonia. Investment in new modern machinery, equipment and technologies, as well as breeding and plant breeding, has been a key driver of the decline in employment. The production of milk, meat and cereals in particular has led to a strong increase in production, while it has allowed for fewer and fewer permanent workers. According to Statistics Estonia, the share of unfilled jobs in information and communication was highest in the second quarter of 2019: 3.1%. The share of job vacancies in agriculture, forestry and fisheries was one of the lowest: 0.7%, or a total of 207 unfilled jobs. One fifth or 43 jobs were located in Ida-Virumaa, followed by 25 jobs in Põlva County and 20 jobs in Jõgeva County. In particular, the continuing decline in the number of rural inhabitants and the ageing of their population may lead to a further worsening of the permanent shortage of skilled labour. The impact is also that young people do not have much motivation to learn about rural entrepreneurship and agricultural disciplines and to settle on land. Thus, in Estonia, there are only 15% of farmers under 40 years of age. While there are 28% over the age of 65. This means that more than one in four leaders are already in retirement age. However, there is no reason to talk about a shortage of permanent labour in the agricultural sector so much that the government should deal with it at a separate and accelerated pace. Secondly, the lack and additional need of temporary or seasonal labour. The great need for temporary seasonal labour in agriculture relates in particular to horticulture, fruit and vegetable production, but also to potato cultivation. The demand for this seasonal labour force is high not only in Estonia but throughout the world. Finding a job for seasonal work is one of the main problems faced by producers. Based on the calculations, only strawberry cultivation needs about 400 harvesters throughout Estonia during the harvesting period. In Estonia, there has been an increasing decline in the free labour force for seasonal implementation and pressure has been exerted on more and more cheaper foreign labour. According to official data, approximately 22000 applications for registration of short-term employment were submitted to the Police and Border Guard Board in 2018, of which 1693 were in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, twice as many as in 2017. By this year, the PBGB has estimated that around 30000 short-term applications will be submitted in total. Most seasonal workers come from Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus, Georgia and Russia. Much has been done by facilitating the recruitment of seasonal workers in 2017. Among other things, the compulsory pay criterion was abolished and the maximum allowed stay was extended to nine months. As a minister and as a member of the government, I feel it necessary to stress that the problem of seasonal work for businesses cannot be solved solely by the unrestricted admission of foreign workers at the expense of the social environment, security and national security. Immigration policy, including labour migration, has always been more cautious and conservative in Estonia and I personally support this approach. It cannot be acceptable to us either that foreign labour is brought to Estonia through intermediary and rental companies that do not pay taxes to the state budget, but at the same time take the huge advantage of mediation. Farmers could think more and act more in order to solve the problem of working hands needed for the season as much as possible within Estonia, including the use of free labour in Narva and other Ida-Virumaa. However, the general principle is that each undertaking, including the farmer, must anticipate its own labour needs and, depending on its own production and production capacity, find a solution to find additional hands to carry out seasonal work. Neither the State nor any Ministry can guarantee that a particular undertaking has the necessary workforce. The second question of the heirs: "Is the lack of labour in the agricultural sector a priority that the government should address? ' As Minister for Rural Affairs and a member of the government, I consider it important to stress that the government must have a broader and deeper view of agriculture and rural areas at all. The priority issue of the strategy is, above all, how to increase the vitality of rural areas. Its solution starts with people, especially young families. To illustrate the prevailing situation and trends, let me give you a few figures. Compared to 1992, the number of rural inhabitants had decreased by 35,000 according to the official figures of the 2011 Census. While there were 55000 farmers in Estonia in 2001, by 2016 there were only 17000 farmers, i.e. the decrease was more than threefold. Last year, 6500 people left Estonia's rural areas abroad. The vast majority of them are the best working and viable young people aged 20 to 34. In several counties, one in four permanent residents is older than 65 years. It is likely that a surprising figure has been pointed out by Statistics Estonia, according to which Estonia's land area, which is 43465 square kilometres, is uninhabited for a total of 22593 square kilometres, or 52%. It's a thought-provoking number. More than half of Estonia's territory is a country where no person lives on one square kilometre. The lack of systematic and consistent regional policy has led to the heels of Estonia towards Tallinn and all Harjumaa. In practically all other regions, the working age population is declining. And with it, opportunities for developing both agricultural and non-agricultural entrepreneurship are narrowed. Our clear objective is to re-establish the long-term negative trends in rural areas. It is necessary, among other things, to analyse rural, regional and employment policies in other developed countries. Policies that would lead to a reduction in agricultural employment and the rural population are generally avoided, for a number of reasons. Firstly, the industry in developed countries no longer needs additional labour today. Rather, unemployment is a problem. Maintaining the unemployed in cities is far more costly for society than supporting small farmers with partial employment. Secondly, the decline in the rural population has a negative side effect on all spheres of state life from infrastructure and defence to cultural life and nature protection. In order to ensure the continuity and development of rural areas, we do not have simple and quick solutions in Estonia either. Implementation of the complex of comprehensive and systemic measures is necessary, not only at the level of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, but with the participation of the entire government and the Riigikogu. The problems of qualified permanent labour in the promotion of agriculture and other rural entrepreneurship can only be solved if tens of thousands of people who have left the country for cities and abroad, as well as young educated families, find the will and motivation to re-enter the country and work. And the third question for the respondents: 'Why is the agricultural sector not among the areas where there is the greatest need for foreign labour? ' The question is motivated by the information that on 13 September 2019 the Minister for the Interior sent a draft of regulations to coordinate the distribution of residence permits between the five areas with the greatest labour shortages: health, education, information and communication, processing industry, transport and storage. This will enable the specialists most needed to be brought to Estonia. Indeed, there is no agricultural sector on this list, but I would stress that the measures proposed by the Ministry of the Interior concern the issue of the immigration limit and, on this basis, the issue of temporary residence permits. This does not concern seasonal foreign labour. Foreigners who come to Estonia for seasonal work do not need a fixed-term residence permit and are not subject to an immigration limit. They shall be registered separately in accordance with the procedures laid down for this purpose. Thus, the government's proposed regulation on priority areas for allocating the immigration limit and issuing temporary residence permits does not in any way restrict or impede the employment of temporary seasonal workers from abroad in the agricultural sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U71	Thank you. There are also questions for the Minister. First Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U72	Thank you. Thank you for these answers. I'll start with the security aspect. In the early 1990's, I was an aid prefect in Saaremaa. In order to get a sausage on the bread, I went to Finland for quite a few summers in a row to pick strawberries. I'm sure the Finns also looked at me as a serious security threat: you see, look, an Estonian came and you don't know what he's doing here. But that's it. I believe that a lot of people have done this work, and as I read about your CV, you have worked in Finland for a long time. But you visited Saaremaa a few weeks ago, where you also met several farmers. What did they get you out of their troubles?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U73	If I start from where you started, then really, we have both worked long hours in Finland outside Estonia. It was a very good experience for me. I didn't pick strawberries, I was on technical work. Thanks to this, for many years, I did sales work in Estonia, as well as construction supervision, so that farmers would be able to dry the grain more easily. But when I went to Saaremaa, I really met several entrepreneurs and, interesting-interesting, the islanders did not raise this problem so that they would have a problem with the labour force. They had other concerns, but the labour problem never came to a conclusion in Saaremaa. That's right. But you also touched on the security issue. I did not mean security in my reply, not that strangers come here and pose a security risk. The security risk lies in the fact that if Estonia is empty, just as half of Estonia's area is almost empty, on average there are no people on a square kilometre, then soon the eastern neighbour will find a way to walk directly to Tallinn, so that no bangs will have to be made. And that's the biggest security risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U74	Thank you. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U75	Thank you. Good minister! You've read all the problems that we've actually asked you about. But in the answers you gave us, I did not hear any particular thought or suggestion about how to solve this problem. For example, tell me how you intend to bring the Eastern virumaans to work elsewhere in Estonia. You said that foreign workers do not want to be allowed in and that it is known that the rural population is decreasing throughout Estonia. The only example of what to do was that there is unemployment in Ida-Virumaa. So how do you Eastern virumaans get to work in South-Estonia or Central-Estonia? Give me an idea!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U76	I'm gonna start with the top of the question. If you listened carefully, you may also have heard that you do not need people for permanent work, or non - seasonal work. When it comes to questions, farmers don't need it. Help is needed for seasonal work and we have regulated the introduction of seasonal workers into the country. The numbers are increasing, but we are doing well, it is possible to bring these people to Estonia. But as far as Ida-Viru County is concerned, I think the Ministry must also work on this solution. For administrative officials, I will, in any case, report on the issue of whether it is possible to organise a labour force for larger strawberry growers in an organized way from Ida-Virumaa. There's no difference here in anything but a smaller distance. It would be easier for Estonia to bring and employ unemployed people than to seek employment in neighbouring countries. As I mentioned, in the case of labour from neighbouring countries, the problem is that temporary agency workers are used, often without paying state taxes. It's a problem that the Home Office has to deal with by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U77	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U78	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The movement of residents of Ida-Virumaa to other parts of Estonia is hardly a transport problem in particular, so the country should start transporting Eastern virukas to another area. But it is worth thinking about what steps the country could take in terms of the decline of the rural population, as you have pointed out. One concrete step that the previous government decided to take concerns the development of a housing fund in rural areas, inter alia, in order to promote labour mobility. It is a so-called rental housing programme. With this budget, you have decided to cut this measure from almost 20 million to 3 million euros, which actually provides an opportunity to build two, perhaps three objects in Estonia. Consequently, I have the question: does such a decision of the Government of the Republic on the use of the state budget favour and support rural development or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U79	To answer this question briefly, such rentals would certainly be a good opportunity to accommodate people during seasonal work. They could spend the night on these improvised rental premises. But if you look at how much this program costs and how much savings needed to be made in the budget, you might say that perhaps it was appropriate to postpone certain things for a certain period. I would also like to add that bringing the workforce from Ida-Virumaa to Central Estonia should first be the concern of entrepreneurs themselves. I know quite a few large-scale strawberry growers. One of them operates in Tartu County and is a very successful producer who grows strawberries in tunnels, or roofing area. He has developed his strawberry cultivation by collecting strawberries from the end of May to October. And he's found a permanent frame that goes to his place for the summer work and comes back next year. He also uses people from Ida-Virumaa. I met him a few weeks ago. So it's not really a utopia, people in Ida-Viru County can actually be used for seasonal work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U80	Thank you. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! The start of your speech was somewhat encouraging, because you have fully admitted to the real problems of the rural population, which are ageing and shrinking at the same time, and you have actually pointed out the very worrying figures. But this example of Saaremaa does not suffer the slightest criticism. In one year alone, the need for seasonal workers increased by 40%: 22000 vs. Thirty thousand. This is not a problem sucked out of a pen, it is a real problem that businesses in your field face in the country. I am also truly sorry that you did not actually propose any solutions. Physically, we ourselves do not have people, and you say that entrepreneurs themselves must find a solution. What is wrong with this, exactly, are we really separating permanent and seasonal work if we bring out seasonal labour? Do you think this is a security risk? With this, Estonia's own people would get a year-round and perhaps better paid job.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U82	Thank you for the additional question. I never claimed that seasonal use of foreign labour was in any way bad. Our legislative base has allowed more and more people to be brought here for seasonal work. I don't see any serious problem in the light of this legislative amendment. These people can continue to be used for seasonal work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U83	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, However, I did not understand your report as to whether there was unemployment or labour shortages in the country. The Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Industry are talking about labour shortages in the countryside. This is about work involving more complex tasks and more responsibility, such as work on animals or modern technology. What, then, is there unemployment or labour shortages?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U85	According to the sector, labour shortages are mainly seasonal. The coverage of permanent jobs for agricultural workers is, I read to you, a quite successful workforce is only missing 0.7%. And according to the sector, this will mostly be resolved within a year without any worries. We do not need to bring in permanent labour from the outside. Additional hands are needed for seasonal work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U86	Thank you. Kristiina Šmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said agriculture was not government priority number one. A much bigger problem is that society is ageing and young people are moving to live in cities. It is also known that soon all the agricultural subsidies we will receive from the European Union will end. Doesn't it scare you, as Minister for Rural Affairs, that agriculture will soon be over and that rural life will not be over?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U88	There was certainly no such statement. I never said that agriculture was not a priority for the current government. I'm saying I didn't say that. You said that agricultural subsidies would disappear at all, but we are currently negotiating funding for the new funding period, and there will certainly also be agricultural subsidies in the new period. It's just not clear at the moment how big they're gonna be. We are getting close to 70% of the overall level of support, but we certainly want to achieve a better level in the negotiations. All of this is still ahead of us at the end of this year. I am not sure at all that if the European Union continues, there will not be another financing period where we will continue to receive agricultural subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U89	Thank you. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U90	Thank you. Good Minister, thank you for a good overview of where the sharpness of this problem came out very nicely! I am thinking of the great need for seasonal workers. If I understood you correctly, your preference would be for employers to find an additional seasonal labour force in Estonia. That's my question. Why do you think they haven't found it so far? And to what extent could the need for a temporary workforce be covered by the Estonian internal workforce? What kind of proportion would that be?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U91	Thank you for your question. I don't think we can set certain proportions. But the general principle is the same for both Estonian food and Estonian labour force: prefer Estonian. If it is possible to recruit Estonian residents, it will be most beneficial for all of us. And the amount that needs to be introduced from outside as a temporary labour force also makes it possible to bring in the laws that I spoke about in my report. Unfortunately, this figure is on an upward trend and businesses have often turned to the government with their requests. We will certainly be able to satisfy these requests, but this cannot be a separate goal that we will only start developing Estonian agriculture using foreign labour.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U92	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You referred to the unemployment fund and the people who are in the unemployment fund as a burden on the taxpayer. It would be better if they were sent to land for agricultural work. What is this methodology, or how should it be organised? Are they being sent under compulsion to do any workdays, or what is your proposal? You're referring to that possibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U94	Thank you for your question. I'm sure we're not going to force people to go anywhere. We want to create additional opportunities to settle on land through the Rural Promotion Foundation, or the MES. We want to create conditions for people to move from Tallinn, Harjumaa and around Tartu, as well as from the border to live in the country. That is the main objective that we intend to address. Our desire, our aim, to emphasise once again, is to create the conditions for people to settle in the country. But it is not a one-month process; perhaps we can talk about the results obtained after the proposals we have made in the middle of next year or even later. Nothing will happen quickly, abruptly, but we will create conditions for settling in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U95	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U96	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have been living in the Türi municipality for a long time, and this area should also be familiar with you, and there are many large and smaller farms in this area. Having led one of the municipalities that joined Türi rural municipality before the administrative reform, I have come close to the issue of the labour force, which is quite acute in agriculture. Young families are particularly affected by one of the major problems, as moving to the country is hampered by the lack of good, high-quality housing. You have just answered Mr Ossinovski's question concerning the reduction of the rental housing programme. I also see that in next year's state budget, you have decided to reduce by nearly EUR 12 million the programme for the reconstruction of apartment buildings, which has so far helped a great many people living in the countryside. Your answer to Jevgeni Ossinovski was that agriculture...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U97	A question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U98	Yeah, yeah, I'm gonna ask you that question right now. You answered Evgeny Ossinovski...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U99	I'd like a question! It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U100	Your vision, as Minister of Rural Affairs, is to save on the countryside. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U101	I didn't understand the question. What must be saved?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U102	The minister's gonna answer the question. I'm not gonna give it a long time because the respected questioner exceeded so much time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U103	I'm sorry, I really didn't understand that question. What must be saved?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U104	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U105	Good chairman of the sitting! Mr. Minister! I listened to your answers and noticed that you strongly support protectionism: that, for God's sake, no one from outside would come to work in Estonia. You might have understood your answers that way. And you had one sentence where you said 'if there is still a European Union'. Do you have a little more information about the future of the European Union than we have in this Chamber? But it's actually kind of a midterm. The question for you as a member of the government is very simple. What is the government's position vis-à-vis outside workers? It is known that we have many jobs, both in the fields of culture and sport, but in other sectors, such as the IT and agricultural sectors, where foreign workers are actually expected. Estonia has been open to them. What is the official position of the government vis-à-vis outside workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U106	I can still base my answer on my field and my ministry. Once again, there is a great need for seasonal workers, and this need is covered legally in every way by bringing in foreign workers, as far as possible. The opinion of the sector is that we do not need a permanent workforce from outside, and I can only rely on the opinion of the sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U107	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I hope we agree that rural areas are not just agriculture. There's more to this whole. Today, there was a very long debate in the Committee on Social Affairs, during which the heads of nursing homes, who work in rural areas, complained about the shortage of workers. It is also impossible to train people because there are simply no employees. Before my colleague, Lauri Läänemets, asked about the housing programme. In government, ministers from different sectors sit at a single table and rural areas are made up of different sectors. In your opinion, however, the implementation of the so-called apartments programme would not be an opportunity to bring people to the country who would make life on land possible not only by working in the agricultural sector? This would also help people in other areas to move to the country of residence of teachers, kindergarten teachers and others.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U109	Thank you for your question, good Helmen. I can say that I fully agree with you on the need to build additional surfaces in places where there is a need for land. The current government coalition budget for next year could not find these funds, and the Minister for Rural Affairs alone cannot write any lines into it either. I hope that the next budget will be better in this respect and these proposals will come true.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U110	Looks like there's no more questions for the Minister. Thank you. Subsequent negotiations, where representatives of the heirs can speak first, then representatives of the political groups and members of the Riigikogu. Speaking from the speaker's desk is five plus three minutes, about two minutes. Urmas Kruuse, as the representative of the inquisitives. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! Honourable Minister! Eesti Pank estimates that the contribution of external workers to growth in 2018 was around 1.3%. In recent years, the largest number of external workers have been employed in construction, agriculture and manufacturing. In particular, our inquiry concerned the work of permanent residents in Estonia and their recruitment in rural areas. Even if there is a true Minister's claim that about 0.7% of workers are missing in the country, it is still bad that 0.0% has been allocated specifically to the agricultural sector in this residence permit package. The idea of the heirs was to point out that it was not really to be thought of. I agree that temporary labour is being used more now and probably in the future. However, the question of why permanent employment is also more needed in agriculture is linked to a few important aspects. First of all, I note that we obviously use different sources of information. As far as we know, representative organisations in agriculture have referred precisely to the need for permanent labour, one important factor to be observed is the cost of inputs, including labour costs. One very long-term trend, which has lasted for nearly ten years, is that certain sales prices have not increased. And that means that there is a great deal of pressure on expenditure suppression. Part of this problem relates to the labour force. The question is not only how many people want to work in this sector, but also at what cost they are willing to work there and what kind of pay they want to earn. This suggests that, in a sense, there is also a coded need for external labour. Mechanisation has certainly helped to reduce labour shortages in certain sectors. It is no secret to anyone that Estonia is effective in several sectors. Let's take the dairy herd, we'll be among the first three in Europe, which is definitely a good indicator. However, it is certainly not acceptable that there is no need for more permanent labour in the countryside. The Minister pointed out several times that we had problems with temporary agency workers. Then the question arises as to what the government and the minister have done to solve the temporary agency labour problem. Is the solution that we leave them at the border, or is the solution that we can, by law, organise things in such a way that these taxes will still be collected to the Estonian state? In fact, Eesti Pank has pointed out that already the Estonian state does not receive at all a small amount of taxes on the use of foreign labour. I think that every tax euro is extremely important. Nor can I ideologically agree with the attitude of temporary agency workers. We Estonians have been able to walk around the world and work there especially at the beginning of independence. If we had been treated exactly as you are now expressing it, it would have been a disaster in terms of the development of the Estonian state. In fact, we hope that if we can offer people a job in our country, including those jobs that our people are not very prepared to do, they will return to their homeland with experience and perhaps get a better living there. We are not talking about mass immigration here, but about the fact that the Estonian economy simply needs a working hand, otherwise we will not be able to pay pensions or increase our income. But the Minister for Rural Affairs indicated that the rural share in this list was 0.0%. I really hope that next time it won't be 0.0%. It is rather strange that, for example, storage is a more important area than milking. It's not like that, though. Speaking of the solution to the temporary labour force, the Minister did not address what people themselves have asked for. And that is, when a person comes to work here temporarily, he could be able to move flexibly between businesses. As far as I know, this problem has not been solved so far, but it should be done. If one day someone needs to do a silo and collect strawberries on the other day, then the workforce could be moved flexibly between companies and everyone could do well. One party can earn more and the other saves costs. So knowing how much the cost of inputs has increased and that sales revenue has certainly not increased as much as could be expected in one sector or another, it can be said that the pressure on the use of foreign labour is increasing. Our own people are not prepared to work in the country for this salary, and so the problem continues to exist. And I really want the Minister to stand up for this. When it comes to unemployment funds, I do not think that we can send half-mandated people from one area to another. That's a pretty unrealistic solution. Perhaps in our minds we plan to lure people into a rural area by preparing housing for them, let them come and live! But it doesn't make much sense. We all know the Minister's plan to allocate EUR 100 million to the so-called resettlement programme: 50 million and 50 million, the Minister has introduced it to us. But in this year's budget, even EUR 15.3 million will not be available for transitional support; there will be EUR 5 million. I am not talking about allocating additional resources to food safety, although we all know the scandals that the public and the media are talking about. In general, I do not have very much faith that this shortage of labour, as the Minister envisages, can be eradicated. I would ask for more reactive action! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U112	Thank you. Is there another wish for negotiation? I don't think so. I'm sorry, it is! Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U113	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In fact, the situation is that labour shortages have started to rise sharply in Estonia, also in agriculture. It's kind of got really sharp over the last few years. At the same time, it is very good to note that we have also made good decisions to alleviate it. I mean 2017 when seasonal workers were legally able to come to Estonia and we were able to push out the intermediary companies. That's very good. At the same time, you can also see these numbers. When we say that there are now 30,000 of them instead of 23000 seasonal workers, it is clear that this is quite a worrying fact that people have been taken in agriculture not only for 'classical' seasonal work but also for work requiring much more thorough preparation. They have been introduced to Estonia under the label of seasonal workers. So the problem isn't just gardening, growing strawberry, etc. There are areas where we really need qualified mechanizers and farm workers, and these qualified mechanizers and farm workers are wanted in Estonia, offering them a very good salary in Estonian terms. These salaries are clearly above the Estonian average. So it's presumably the statistical shift that was brought out here is hidden behind the fact that it's used like a lot of seasonal workers. In this context, the bad moment has arisen that one company officially uses seasonal workers together with all the obligations arising therefrom, while at the same time there are still companies offering rental services and much cheaper. It has also been said here that it is important to deal seriously with the expulsion of temporary agency companies that do not leave taxes in Estonia and only bring temporary agency workers here. So far, that's all I've ever talked about. As far as the specifics of agriculture are concerned, agriculture needs more stability. The greatest shareholder in agriculture is the weather, as you know, and all agricultural policy decisions, including the need to ensure the availability of a skilled workforce, requiring extremely serious consideration and a flexible attitude. The topicality of the subject of questioning is increasing over time. It was bad to listen, perhaps in advance, because we are going to discuss the state budget this week as well, how the Minister read out all the sad figures that reflect what happened in rural areas. It turns out that in next year's state budget, significant investments in rural areas have been significantly cut. We have been talking about investments in housing, but this is an issue of its own. Let's just say we're good, but the leg shadows are bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U114	Thank you. Is there another wish to speak? Looks like it's gone. Is there anything else the Minister would like to say? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U115	Honourable questioners! I will now speak very briefly after the last two points of debate. I have come to this office because I want to stand up for Estonia's rural life. And for my part, I promise that there will be no decisions in our ministry against rural development. I didn't have time to write down all of Urmas' statements or half-issues like that, but I think we need to bring in the foreign workforce under control. The regulation, which is currently a draft law for coordination at the Ministry of the Interior, also seeks to provide a legal path for the introduction of temporary agency workers. You were talking about a flexible labour movement, Urmas. I remind you of my time in Finland. I had officially obtained a permit to work in Finland. I got it all started in Soviet times. I first applied for an external passport, which was an opera on its own. And when I went to work in one place, if I wanted to change the job so that I could avoid working black, it would have been a very complicated process. It would have taken quite a few months to do business. In Finland, a person who worked with me at the same time took it, and he finally gave it up, it was very difficult. You also touched on the subject of the MES that we want to allocate EUR 100 million to promote rural development. Yeah, we want it. I repeat, it is likely to come in the form of loan money and reach the MES, and with this we want to make a very strong contribution to rural development. It is not about sowing money anywhere or giving money; we are creating conditions with this money. We guarantee that people who want to come to live in the country have a lot of them, have opportunities to get information and help through the advisory service and find the necessary funding opportunities for all of the MES, or in one place. That is a very big goal. We are not going to pay the subsidies, we are creating the conditions, I say that again. People who have expressed a desire to live in the country often claim to have some initial capital to buy their own home. Often, though, land is not enough to buy land. How to get the cheapest long-term loan, how to get a loan to run a business plan, these are the issues that we are trying to solve with this money. I mean a long-term loan. The idea of land capital is another idea that we are developing with the implementation of this MES strategy. Dear Ivar, I've had time to write down some of your problems. You said the labour problem was growing. I agree with that, but it is still only a seasonal labour problem. Wages have risen and permanent workers have survived. Do I have a minute to answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U117	These are the topics we know about. Wages have risen, and this has created a situation where farmers, I will bring even Tiit Niilo's example, say that the situation that was a year ago is no longer there. There has been an increase in wages and it has fixed people to jobs. And farmers such as Tiit Niilo are fortunately many more, who are also concerned about the place of residence of their employees, have been able to ensure a good workforce in their production. This is a very positive example. Ivar mentioned the weather. We can't really fix that if it's bad, it's bad, you can't fight it. For my part, I mention training specialists, which we also want to help farmers with. This is one of our future plans. I'm done with that. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U118	Thank you. I will stop dealing with this question. And now, using my authority, I'm announcing a break until 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U119	Thank you. Let's continue our trial today. We have come to the fourth point, which is the inquiry submitted on 12 September by the members of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padari, Indrek Saare, Jaak Juske, Lauri Läänemets, Helmen Küti, Riina Sikkut and Heljo Pikhof concerning the professional activities of the Minister. Evgeni Ossinovski receives the floor as the representative of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U120	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of my colleagues, I report an inquiry that we submitted on 12 September. The reason for this inquiry was the fact that by then we had not seen the Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology in six months, and relatively little information about the performance of the official duties of this member of the government had reached the public. Not only does the Minister intend to travel as little as possible and tries to delegate these tasks to others, but not much more did he know. Today, the situation has changed a little, and we hope that we have been able to initiate a wider chain reaction with this question. Namely, last week we saw the Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology for the first time in Question Time and we were able to ask him about the performance of his duties. It was an undoubtedly good opportunity. So we were able to hear answers that were a positive surprise, as well as those that simply surprised us. But given the specific format of Question Time, there is doubtless a better opportunity to explain the duties, priorities and topics that the Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology is working more on in response to today's inquiry. More can be asked and more can be answered. To warm up, we have prepared and forwarded to the Minister six issues concerning the key priorities in the field. And after the Minister has had the opportunity to talk more about it, we can certainly also continue to ask. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U121	Thank you. Please respond to the speakers of the platform, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Kert Kingo!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U122	Dear President of the Riigikogu and others in the Chamber! I will answer the question that was put to me on 12 September, in particular in the order of the questions and in brief. The first question was: 'What steps have you taken to involve investments in the Estonian economy? " Our work is in many directions, and the goal is greater added value. Work to mobilise investment is taking place in a number of directions and levels. We will continue with the various existing activities to support investment and develop further measures. The focus is on activities that generate greater added value. A stable economic environment is also important to us. We consider it important to promote a competitive business environment and create a stable economic environment. To this end, we analyse the economic environment, take into account feedback from companies and propose changes at government level. In order to ensure stability, the government has also maintained the existing tax environment. The state budget for 2020 proposed by the government is a fiscal austerity budget. Tax stability is very important for investors. In addition, we have support measures for large investors and digitalisation. I have launched various additional support measures. The main focus of support measures is on digitisation, automation and added value. For example, I launched a support measure for large investors. The aid will encourage investments in new production units and the development of value-added products. Better support for companies in foreign markets. Our foreign representations play an important role in identifying potential foreign investors. We will offer more support abroad to investors and Estonian entrepreneurs. Let's review the content and location of the activities of the external representatives of EAS. In cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we take economic diplomacy to a new level. We establish a comprehensive network of economic diplomats, doing so in the interests of Estonian companies. More top specialists and IT specialists with Estonian roots. We would like to bring more top specialists and IT specialists with Estonian roots to Estonia. There are a large number of IT and other top specialists in the Estonian foreign community who are interested in working in Estonia or coming to practice. Directing development investments to companies. The most important thing for us is innovation and the development of the innovative capacity of Estonian companies. This is what we are working on, and we have started to shape innovation policies. The plan is to build an innovation agency and clean up the landscape of applied research. It aims to channel more development investment into businesses, including support for small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas. We offer support and funding to Estonian high-tech companies. Today, I granted additional support to small and medium-sized enterprises amounting to EUR 2.5 million. Support will enable companies to participate in international R &amp; D activities. The aid contributes to the export of smaller companies. Support goes first and foremost to companies located outside Tallinn and Harjumaa and other centres. Support for high technology, that is to say, in plain language, space. I directed additional funding to Estonian technology companies, which is one million euros. This allows Estonian companies to participate in international innovation programmes and procurement. This support will contribute to the development of the Estonian technology sector and domestic industry. Estonian companies can participate in procurement and programmes promoting innovation by the European Space Agency. Estonia's membership of the European Space Agency represents an additional EUR 3 million in net benefits. I have initiated an amendment to the draft law on Estonia's participation in the European Space Agency. More specifically, it is a draft act ratifying the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic and the European Space Agency on the Establishment of a European Space Agency. This change will provide more projects worth 3 million euros to Estonian companies and research institutions for the next four years. In doing so, it does not impose any additional financial obligations on Estonia. Artificial intelligence. The Krat Action Plan has been adopted and it is now important to move forward with the themes of artificial intelligence. That is why I presented the Krat Action Plan to the government in June. It includes specific activities that stimulate the take-up of artificial intelligence. The government approved the action plan. The aim is to make e-services and procedures for citizens easier. In addition, we support companies in rural areas through KredEx. We are preparing to increase KredEx's capacity, it is the best support for companies to operate in foreign markets. It is also linked to the creation of a network through EAS in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the meantime, I answered the second question smoothly. The third question is more substantive: 'When have you represented our country in the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union, and what issues have you raised? ' I would point out that Estonia is represented in the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as has been the case during previous governments. The meeting of the Foreign Trade Ministers of the European Union is then one of the formats of the Foreign Affairs Council held in November, and that is where I intend to participate. Question 4: 'When have you represented our country in the European Union and in the Competitiveness Council, and what issues have you raised there? ' First of all, I note that my predecessor, Rene Tammist, did not attend any of the European Union's Competitiveness Councils. Moreover, he did not attend any European Union Council meetings this year, even though he was in office longer than I did so far, i.e. eight months. I intend to be there in November when this hearing takes place, but that depends very much on the agenda of the sitting. This depends on what is important for Estonia and what is not. Question 5: 'When have you represented our country in the European Union's Telecommunication and Energy Council, and what issues did you raise there? ' My good colleague, Taavi Aas, deals with energy issues; you can ask him that. The Telecommunications Council will be held in December, and that is where I intend to participate. The agenda hasn't come yet, but for me, cyber security and artificial intelligence issues are important. And the last question: 'Please state what are the main priorities of your area of responsibility. ' I highlight five main priorities. The first is to ensure the sustainability of the e-state and the financing of the e-government, and then it is to ensure the continuity of cyber security and e-services, and to bring e-state issues closer to the public and open up. Secondly, designing and strengthening cyber security policies, as well as developing solutions to mitigate specific risks. This then concerns the security of communications networks and e-elections. Relevant amendments to the Ministry's statutes have been planned, which are still too early to comment on. Thirdly, the development of innovation capacity: European Space Agency projects, innovation agency, research, development and innovation, or R&D&I in general. Fourthly, the Estonian Post and UPT, or universal postal service. Restructuring of this service so that home delivery will continue to take place all over Estonia six days a week. Mailmen's wages must rise. And fifthly, supporting businesses in rural areas. In Estonia, especially in rural areas, companies are mainly small or very small. We need to find a way to maintain them, develop them and grow them, as well as create new ones. The state must find a system to help promote their entrepreneurship and build a natural pyramid for their development. So these are my answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U123	Thank you. Now any member of the Riigikogu can ask the minister one oral question, the length of which is up to one minute. First Kristiina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that it is like an idea or plan to bring IT specialists to Estonia. How do you do that? Do you already have a plan for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U125	Thank you for your question. It's already working. We regularly bring IT top specialists to Estonia from different regions of the world and according to the need. It's been working so far, and we're going in the same direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U126	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U127	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Next year's state budget will be subject to very large cuts in regional investment. This is largely the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, amounting to 56 million euros. Rural housing is hit hard, you take 27 million euros out of it. At the same time, labour mobility is particularly important for the development of regional companies. My question to you is: if there was a need to cut off from somewhere, why did you decide to cut down on regional investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U128	I would point out that they have not been cut in my field. We will continue with the same amount of resources and we will have project-based instruments. It is precisely in rural areas that KredEx will continue its activities very actively. Let the various housing benefits, which are available in the budget, be mentioned in the same way as support for entrepreneurs, support for investments that can be applied for from KredEx. It's on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U129	Thank you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U130	Thank you. Good minister! Last week's briefing, I asked you if the government was planning to take EAS Foreign Offices under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you said there was no such plan. On Thursday, however, you have spoken in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that this is the plan. Has the government come to a decision now, or had this decision been made earlier, and had you not just been consulted on this matter? And how are we gonna go about this now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U131	Thank you for your question. I certainly didn't say there was no plan. I said that we have not discussed this directly in the government and that we are negotiating in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Today we move forward. There's a working group on how this is gonna happen. But it is true that I spoke in the Committee on Foreign Affairs about the plans that we have been analysing so far. In particular, with regard to the interests of businesses, it is our idea that this network should become more efficient and effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U132	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U133	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Your area is very directly concerned with the European Commission's proposals for a digital tax. What is your position on this and how much are these proposals in line with Estonia's interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U134	For now, I can tell you that they are not directly relevant to us. We will wait for the final position, and if a directive is adopted, discussions will begin on it. But it doesn't really concern us right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U135	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U136	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Did I get the right idea from the answer you gave Lauri to the West Forest that KredEx has the resources? Are these instruments available in the same amount as in the past? People really have concerns about renovating apartment buildings as well as the construction of rents in rural areas. I looked at this table, which says who has applied for and received this money in the last period and has solved a number of problems with it, including labour and social problems. Are these funds available in the unchanged size in 2020 as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U137	Thank you for your question. Yeah, it's the same amount of resources. We are simply going to adjust these measures a little more, precisely with the aim of directing these measures outside Tallinn, Harjumaa and Tartu, in other words, into rural areas to help entrepreneurs and residents there. But the budget is the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U138	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U139	Thank you very much. Your area also includes all kinds of digital issues and you can see that you have discussed the issues of e-votes. How does it feel that the biggest problem with e-voting is still what is thought of, not how good it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U140	I'd say that what they think is one thing, another thing is what's really happening. I have stressed here that the IT world is developing not every year, not every month, but every day. And right now, we have cyber security and Internet security as a priority. That's what an e-group is doing so we're not vulnerable from that side.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U141	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U142	Thank you. I don't believe what you just said. I will ask again about the insulation of apartment buildings and the KredEx measure. In spring 2018, we saw a total of EUR 122 million in the country's budget strategy for the insulation of apartment buildings over four years. This spring, the government came together and took over 100 million. There was a total of EUR 7.5 million in spring this year. If we look at the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget, we will see that 12,7 million are planned to heat apartment buildings, but it turns out that 7.1 million of this is pilot projects that have not yet been developed. As for the classic insulation of apartment buildings, the interest of the housing associations is so great that this year, I recall, a round of 17.5 million was covered with applications in 1.5 minutes. The next year will be 5.6 million, three times less. And over 100 million you've taken the RES out of the money to heat apartment buildings. How can you say that the numbers have remained the same? Is there some kind of parallel universe, or are we reading some kind of false paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U143	Yes, the parallel universe in this case is the money of the Structural Funds. At the moment, I am reading very clearly here that the total budget for the 2015 to 2020 period is EUR 119,5 million. This is all covered by decisions and 451 houses will be repaired with grants. The total investment is ca 305 million. The amounts that remained unused last year moved on, not included in the papers, but remained exactly the same. They have been applied for and will continue to be used. [[Something they say in the hall.]] Right now, as far as I can remember, I can't tell by heart exactly, applications have been made for these previous volumes and will be dealt with. It's just that there's no capacity for new applications. But maybe I don't remember exactly, really, I haven't memorized everything. Similarly, we have home support for child-rich families provided through KredEx and support for the reconstruction of small homes. In order to support the reconstruction of small houses, an annual budget is available, of which EUR 3.2 million has been allocated to 669 applicants. Similarly, home support is for families with children, which is also an annual budget. This allowance has been granted since 2008 to 2727 families with a total of 7949 children. A total of 29,7 million have been allocated for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U144	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U145	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! At the end of last week and this weekend, we were able to observe the regrettable controversy that broke out after the public found out that Jakko Väli was about to start working as your advisor. Here's my question. Please specify whether you agreed with Jakko Väli that he would be your advisor, and then you changed your decision or you never agreed to it, and Jakko Väli just figured out that he would be your advisor. How is it even possible that such a situation could have occurred?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U146	Thank you for your question. As I can see, you are relying again on the media and you can ask these questions from the media. As far as I am concerned, all kinds of advisers, whether they are planning to hire or not, are usually discussed within the party. I don't remember discussing ministers in this Chamber before. It's a party matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U147	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The topic of Tallinn City Hall is, in any case, your subject and I asked you about it in Question Time last week. But after your answer, I was more confused than before I asked you a question. I specifically asked that next year there will be EUR 0 in the city hall. 20 million have been put into the next year. I asked if this $20 million was planning money or construction money. You yourself have been communicating that the budget for the project is EUR 10 to 20 million, and this is how the government has been communicating it. Here's what I'm gonna ask. You replied to me that this money for 2021 also includes construction activities. But how is that possible? There will be nothing going on next year, and it will be necessary to start designing in 2021. What will be built in 2021? What kind of construction activities will take place, and what is the volume of construction activity in this EUR 20 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U149	Let me remind you that I have specified that various activities can be classified under construction. But right now, if you want to get so specific answers from me, I can tell you exactly as I did last week that since, as far as I know, the connection of the opera house to this very complex is under consideration now, we can no longer talk about this plan and this project. We have to wait for what's decided. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U150	Andres Sutt, please! Is there a procedural question, Raimond Kaljulaid? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U151	Thank you, President of the sitting. I really have a question for you. In the light of which section of the Rules of Procedure, the Minister may simply leave the question of a member of the Riigikogu unanswered? Would you be good and point out which law allows a member of the government to come to the Riigikogu in the Republic of Estonia and simply absolutely ignore what is being asked of him?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U152	Just as any member of the Riigikogu is free to ask, the minister is free to reply. Indrek Saar next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U153	I'm trying to pick up where Raimond Kaljulaid ended up. Firstly, the Minister's advisers who hire them from public funds are already public matters as a result of where they are financed. Not to mention that political parties are also a public matter. If someone is hired in a party, it is also a public matter. But I'm still coming back to Raimond Kaljulaid's question. Have you or have your authorised representative negotiated with Jakko Väli on the subject of Jakko Väli becoming your advisor?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U154	First of all, I will answer this question by asking you where you got this information from. I didn't write those things to Delfi. Ask over there! The second question is that when you talk about public funding, Jakko Field hasn't been my advisor for a second or a second. Consequently, it is not possible to grant it any public funds either. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U155	Thank you. Now I'm giving the opportunity to ask Andres Sut, who somehow, because of the procedural question, fell in line for last. Please, Andres Sutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U156	Thank you, Mr President. That's right, I was just watching as I've somehow been pushed into that back end. But before I come to the question, I would like to remind the Minister that you have been appointed by the Riigikogu and are here to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu. You must not refer a member of the Riigikogu to ask you a question from another third place. But now to my question. You named an e-state as one of your priorities. Please tell me what is the one big thing you want to do in the further development of the e-Governance during your term of office.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U157	I would first like to briefly draw attention to your introduction. Yes, I'm obliged to answer questions about my profession. At the moment, you are talking about someone from a third party, and it is not my duty to comment on it. But what do I say about e-governance? I have already read a lot of points, but the primary and most important task is to ensure the sustainability of the e-state. And this sustainability does not only mean that we are making innovations, but also that we are looking very closely at this secure side and cybersecurity, which has become a very serious problem today. That is the main thing that I do in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U158	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U159	Thank you! Madam Secretary! I've been a member of the government, too, and I've had quite a few advisors. Quite surprisingly, the Minister's duties include the selection of advisers. Consequently, I ask you a rather simple question. You don't have to tell me what you haven't done, but you can tell me what you've done. Have you negotiated with Jakko Field to be your advisor? Or have you proposed to him that he be your counselor? This is a matter directly related to your work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U160	Thank you for your question. I still think that since he hasn't been my advisor for one second, we can't talk about my field of work. If a third person writes something somewhere, it cannot be that we take the entire Estonian state in this way and start discussing what Hanno Pevkur, for example, has come up with. Or someone's gonna figure out that this person is my advisor now, you're gonna leak the subject to the press, and then I'm gonna have to deal with it like he's my official advisor. I haven't met him. I'm telling you straight away: I haven't met him. Very bravely I can say that. We haven't met, we haven't talked about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U161	Thank you. Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U162	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In Question Time last week, I asked you about possible suspicions of corruption in EAS and you answered me: 'The prosecutor's office has assessed the case and found that there is no composition of corruption in this activity. " You are somewhat inaccurate. The prosecutor's office has not assessed these doubts; the prosecutor's office simply has not initiated proceedings. And the only one who could inspire the DA's office is you. The problem with the Public Prosecutor's Office is that the information provided to him is not sufficient to enable the proceedings to be initiated. Since I have now explained to you what is the difference between the prosecution's opinion and the fact that the prosecutor's office has not been able to initiate proceedings due to insufficient data, I repeat my question. Do you intend to carry out some sort of internal investigations or audits so that you, as a person who condemned corruption in the past with a very harsh word, can help the prosecutor's office in this and make sure that there really are no corruption cases in EAS?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U163	Thank you. I think we have different information about the prosecution's position. I have information that the D.A.'s office has said that there is no crime in this case. I've been given this kind of information. And, as a rule, there is such a law in the country that if, let's say, the authority supervising criminal investigations says that there is no crime, it will be accepted, like it or not. That's just the way it is. It's exactly the same when a verdict comes. And as far as I know, as far as I'm concerned, I've been attending not only the district prosecutor's office, but also the state prosecutor's office on this subject. It is similarly found that there is no composition. I've relied on these data. So much to be precise: the fact is that they are aware of the case and they have not begun the procedure. It's like I've seen some documents that they haven't started for a reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U164	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Your working group on e-votes has highlighted several dozen concerns which they seem to have discovered and which should be resolved. The one thing that caught your eye was that you're worried that you don't know that if a person votes with an ID card, either he's voting or someone else is voting. I bring here the parallel that hundreds of thousands of bank transfers are made every day using an ID card. Is this concern the same? Would the bank transfers that are made need similar control or do you still trust the person who has the so-called "authentication document" at his disposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U166	I would like to clarify this 'double-authentication problem'. I've been dealing with the issue of tankers in my working life, and I'm sure it's no stranger to you either. There's entrepreneurship and there's tankers. The activity is done by holding documents, ID-cards from different people, running some kind of company, raising public debt and then leaving it alone and starting a new one. This is a very long-term problem. This has also been a major problem in the area of criminal offences, precisely because it is the fact that an ID card is used by a person whose name it has not been issued. And the same should be true for the e-vote. There must be some solution here so that we can be sure that whoever is logged in for will also vote. There are different options here, just as there are bank logs and bank payments, for example, you need to enter your contract code in advance or you need to enter some code in your phone. The same solution must probably be considered for authentication in the case of e-votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U167	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U168	Thank you, good manager. Madam Secretary! For the sake of the truth or for the sake of clarity, I'm still coming back to Jakko Field for a second. Have your officials performed any human resources activities, including conversations or telephone calls with Jakko Field?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U169	As far as I know, there have been no conversations. I can't comment, but as far as I know, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U170	Thank you. Ivar Padar.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U171	Thank you. Madam Minister! We are also going to discuss the budget this week, and there was also a debate on the development of a broadband distribution network in connection with digitalisation. We can see that instead of the 10 million previously planned, 4.1 million euros will be planned for next year. Why is that? Why has the development of a broadband distribution network suffered such a huge cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U172	That 4.1 million isn't all the money. EUR 20 million is actually going to build a broadband network this year, with 20 million earmarked for this. This 4.1 million was, as I recall, a preparation, but 20 million is definitely for the last mile of the broadband network.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U173	Thank you. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U174	Madam Secretary! Everything you're telling us here about this Jakko Field is a little unconvincing. Do you want to assure us that Jakko Field made up his own mind that he would be your advisor and went to the media with it? For example, why didn't he say that he would be counseling Minister Järvik? Why would he lie about that? Give us one good reason!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U175	Absurd that you ask me about another person's thoughts! Well, that's something you should ask him. You're his former party partner, and it's good for you to ask him. Let me remind you that I am a resident of Tartu and I am not a member of the Central Party. And Jakko Field hasn't been a member of the EKRE. So think a little bit about how real our point of contact is. But I suggest you ask him these questions. I can't answer for him. Yeah, that's his point of view, I can't answer for him.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U176	Thank you. Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U177	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Minister! I'm still asking about the same counselor. Haven't you had the question of how, by chance, someone would claim to be your advisor and report it to the press? Are you now ready to take legislative measures against Mr.? He's seriously damaging your reputation right now. This is a very serious ethical problem if you are not talking about what has happened here, or vice versa, this so-called candidate for counsel has damaged you to a very significant extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U178	First of all, at the end of your question, you have made it clear that this has been a candidate for an adviser. I would add the word 'possible'. I still stress that he hasn't worked for one second as my advisor, he hasn't been my advisor. It is therefore very arbitrary to put us together in one rocket and to address this issue as if our tandem existed and I should be responsible for him and he should be responsible for me. It's completely arbitrary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U179	Looks like there's no more questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. Evgeni Ossinovski will be the next to speak as the representative of the heirs. Five plus three minutes, that's how we open negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U180	Ladies and gentlemen, The story is, of course, relatively bad. For the second time today, it has appeared that the Minister does not fully understand his role when he stands before Parliament. Members of the Riigikogu before the parliament ask questions and ministers answer these questions. If they don't want to be in that role, then there's a perfectly free way to resign. Having worked as a member of the Government of the Republic, I know that yes, it is not always nice to answer questions, especially when they are not pleasant. But it has to be done. If you don't want to do it, you can leave. This statement that, since it is a political adviser, it is not a public matter, it is pretty bad. The minister qualified it so that if a person has not worked for him for a day, it is not in the public interest. Well, it sounds a little bit like a criminal trying to talk in court that I didn't kill him, I just tried, but I missed. Yes, but the attempt is also a criminal offence. It's not a crime, but it's definitely a liability. But I guess it's a broader indication of how a member of the government understands his position and his position in the constitutional space. Last time, the minister was in trouble with questions about the circle. For example, he said that the WTO association would cease to work by December. Today, it was surprising to see that there were no answers to the facts about specific decisions either. Or you can get answers that are factually wrong. Heating apartment buildings, I've made myself clear. Information from the Ministry of Finance with the draft state budget and KredEx information. In spring 2018, the government, which was also members of the Social Democrats, decided to add more than 100 million four years to the insulation of apartment buildings, as the earlier funds ran out. It's black and white in the previous RES, you can see it: it's the country's budget strategy 2019/2022 page 54 if you want an exact reference. EUR 122 million. The RES adopted a year later in 2020,223 which was adopted this spring during the new government, has a total of 7.5 million for four years to heat apartment buildings on page 90. 7.5 million! I asked how it would be spread over the years. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on State Budget 2020 explanatory memorandum page 225: 12.7 million apartment buildings have been allocated. But if you ask what's inside it, it turns out that 7.1 million of CO2 quota money is a pilot project that doesn't exist yet, and the same one for the insulation of apartment buildings is the same one for the next 5.6 million years that were in the spring RES. Over 100 million have been withdrawn from this measure compared to the RES last year. And now we're thinking context. The goal of climate neutrality is, in fact, the same. The analysis shows that this is the most sensible and fastest way to move there, given the state of our buildings today. This decision, which has been made, is not only a bad one, in addition to that, I think the Minister does not even know that such a decision has been made. Or if he does, knowingly he's hiding it from us. And I don't know which one is worse. And similarly, it is actually correct with a number of other entirely factual questions concerning the administration of the same minister. So I don't know, maybe even cheered up when he didn't come here before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U181	Thank you. There are no further requests to speak. Is there anything else the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. This inquiry is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U182	And we go on: the first reading of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee and the Land Acquisition Act issued in the course of the land reform. The rapporteur is Tarmo Tamm, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U183	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today it is good to conclude with a very good bill: it is a draft law amending the Land Reform Act and the Land Acquisition Act issued in the course of land reform. Its Article 1 is 'amendment of the Land Reform Act'. Paragraph 341 of the Land Reform Act is supplemented by paragraph 62 with the following wording: "The holder of the right to use land may sub-lease to an agricultural production company of himself, a spouse or a relative. "Moreover, § 2 'amendment of land acquisition law issued in the course of land reform'. It states that § 4 (1) (3) of the Land Acquisition Act, issued in the course of the land reform, is inserted after the word "use' part of the text, except in the case provided for in § 341 62 of the Land Reform Act.' As an explanation, it may be added that in order to allow small-scale self-employed producers to grant the land covered by contracts to their own agricultural production company, a spouse or a relative in use, it is necessary to provide for a derogation from the possibility of sub-leased land to a company of themselves, a spouse or a relative. In its memo of 10 September 2019, the Chancellor of Justice has also drawn the attention of the Rural Commission to the impact of land reform laws on small producers. Due to the letter of formal notice from the Chancellor of Justice, this bill was initiated and today is the first reading in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U184	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I came up with a simple question as to the sub-lease of a natural person's land to a company of himself, a spouse or a relative. Would you define this relative in this bill? After all, relationship is a very broad concept.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U186	Thank you, Urve, for the very good questions. The definition of the concept of relationship is derived from the law. And now, if I were to start to derive it here and read it out of the Riigikogu's remote control, I could definitely be wrong. I'm not ready to do this. But the concept of kinship comes from the law. But when we come back to the bill, the reason for this was that until now, this land could only be subleased to the self-employed. Only one form of business was allowed. This option will now be extended to all companies. That narrowed it down. When a child started a business, he had the only chance to get this land to a sublease when he was a self-employed person. To avoid this, this regulation extends to everyone. The concept of a relative, however, is derived from the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U187	Looks like there's no more questions. Thanks to the waitress! The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 87. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 4 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-21_U188	Now the applicants have the opportunity to register for speaking in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Please! Since there are no registrants, today's session is adjourned. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 6.18 p.m.
