ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's start our weekly briefing. The following members of the government participate in the Question Hour: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas and Minister for Rural Affairs Mart Järvik. We're gonna do a presence check. 58 members of the Riigikogu are present and 43 are absent. I'll show you how this procedure takes place. Each member of the Riigikogu may register only for one question and everyone has two minutes to submit it. I'm asking you to stick to that two minutes! The question should fit in, too, not go beyond that time. There are three minutes to respond. After replying, the President may give the person asking the questioner an opportunity to ask more specific questions. And the rest of the procedure is simple. Questions that we cannot discuss here and which cannot be answered, unfortunately, will not be transferred to the next Question Time. That's the way it's been.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U2	But let's start with our questions. Urmas Kruuse, who has a question for Jüri Ratas, has first registered to speak. Please! [[Voices in the hall. Indrek Saar says something about it.]] Yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U3	Are these questions no longer on a given list, and we're going to register them here on the spot, as someone's fingers are moving? I remember we used to have a list of what we worked on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U4	Still on the list, yeah. That's right! Indrek Saar is the first person to be listed there. Please, Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U5	Thank you. It is a great honour for me to start this season here in the Riigikogu Hall and to quote Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. It has said that it is the responsibility of the state to ensure that the regions are balanced and that people are guaranteed quality and accessible services irrespective of their place of residence. 'Whether it is in Vormsi or Vooremaa, Võru or Viljandi County, it must be possible for our people to live anywhere throughout the year in such a way that their roads have been pushed open and the rescue command is safely close. So that children can seek wisdom at school, parents can shop and post office and visit an elderly doctor. So that all our people can read in the library and participate in the local cultural life. ' I very much agree with what you promised local government leaders in 2017. But I read the paper and see that the Estonian Post plans to close down 30 post offices, which are well 15% of the net left. He plans to clean up every fourth box where people can put their letters, and he plans to significantly increase the price of a periodical return home: 18% on weekdays and up to a third on weekends, which naturally means that the probability that these county leaves, which have so far been able to endure, will have to start making new decisions and some of them might end their existence. The general situation in the media market is known. What will the Prime Minister now do to keep his promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I certainly wish everyone the best with regard to the beginning of Question Time, even though today, when we think about recent history, is a difficult day just reminding us of the tragic events that happened in the United States on 11 September. I, Indrek, thank you for this question. This shows that you are still in good shape as a member of the Riigikogu and no longer as a member of the government. You've always stood for this kind of regional policy, a credit to you for that! But it was very surprising for me to read this quote from me, I haven't heard much about anyone using it. But I will continue to sign this quote. There was, I got a few observations to make about the rescue squads. It is true that this is now an even higher level of ambition: only recently, a few weeks ago, we took a decision with the current government on the state's investments, so that rescue commandos across Estonia need to be repaired. We see that, in fact, the situation of the rescue commandos in some places is still very bad, as is the situation of the service halls of the PBGB, the buildings of the PBGB. The Minister of the Interior made this proposal and we very much support it. And we made up our minds. Now, the quote also mentioned Vormsi. There have also been many steps taken by previous governments: a new ferry, a new rescue station that has been taken a few years ago. But I do know that Vormsi's question is still up to date, for example, they want to renovate Vormsi School Stadium. I just visited Vormsi. But I understand that the focus of the question was primarily on the Estonian Post. The question was about letterboxes, postal services and also prices. The truth is, I read the news too when it came out a few days ago. The Competition Authority has decided to grant permission to the Estonian Post to close 30 post offices, as you referred to. First of all, I wanted to say that I immediately contacted the Estonian Post, or Omniva, and asked if this was true. This news is from the point of view that a new licence has been issued. The current licence should expire in October of this year, be valid for a period of five years, 2014 to 2019, and the new licence provides for a minimum number of new postal institutions. I think we're gonna keep going. I've had my time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U7	Thank you. Indrek Saar, another, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U8	In order to be procedurally correct, I note that this is the first of the questions to be specified. The first was my key question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U9	The second, more specific question, the comma is sometimes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U10	Jüri, I am sure to thank you for reminding me that a programme of support for interest activities developed by social democrats was launched already in the previous government, with an additional EUR 15 million aimed at trying to give all children the opportunity, regardless of where they live and their social background, to engage in activities of interest. It was already put into practice during the previous government, where you and I served our country together. I think that this is indeed a specific regional policy initiative, which allows people in sparsely populated areas to hope that the conditions relating to children's education of interest will be even more equal. But I will still come back to the main point of my question, which you reached at the end of your answer. How many post offices are scheduled to close the government in the coming period, how many mailboxes will be removed, and what will happen to the price of a periodical return home?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U11	Thank you for giving me a chance to answer! I didn't stop there for a new license. This new licence will be for the next five years and, as far as I know, it should determine the minimum number of postal authorities to be present. The new minimum level listed in the licence is 215. If we look today at how many postal offices we have, including post offices, we see that there are a lot more: 267 of them. The previous licence also provided for a minimum number of 245. Eesti Post did not reduce the number of postal institutions to a minimum when the current licence is valid was higher than this number. And such a decision has not yet been made by Eesti Post that they will close down, for example, 30 postal institutions or, as you asked, a post office. I have asked the management and general meeting of Eesti Post for a meeting tomorrow to discuss these issues. As far as I know, the Minister, Mrs. Kert Kingo, has also asked that the Estonian Post submit a specific plan to her. I know that this plan is being developed and should be presented to the Minister at the beginning of October. I also believe that this is an important regional policy issue. And I think that this should also be discussed at a broader level of government. Now, I will certainly not respond today to how many writing boxes will be in the new period. There should be 1845 now. You also asked about prices. I want to say that I think this is a very topical question. I have been approached several times by county newspapers, for example, who say that it is very difficult to send mail on weekends, because this price level goes so high that it doesn't pay any more. I would certainly like to discuss these issues with the management and minister of Eesti Post. No specific decision has been taken on the closure of postal offices and mailboxes, as far as I know. This has been confirmed to me by the Estonian Post today, and I had a busy phone call with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U12	Thank you. Now you are registered on site Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! By quoting your statements, you may seem to be very interested in regional policy and a supporter of local governments. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that many of the decisions you have made tend to support Tallinn and leave smaller municipalities in a difficult position. When it comes to local governments, an example is the share of personal income tax that should be paid to local governments, although it should prefer the Equalisation Fund. But I think one of the worst regional policy decisions your government can make and what you have said concerns education. I'm not talking about schoolhouses and their walls, I'm talking about this most important asset, or teacher. You have said so, and the members of your government have expressed a clear view that teachers' pay may not increase at all in the next four years. I'm sure you can imagine that if we talk about the shortage of teachers today and their pay doesn't rise, it's the smaller municipalities outside the big cities that get hit first. Which means that competition for teachers is getting even bigger. How have you made it clear to yourself that the teacher's salary in the Republic of Estonia will not rise this year, next year or the year after, even though you have been prime minister at some of the best times for the economy, where there are cash flows and there should be enough money? How have you been able to make decisions that have to be spoken of in such a way today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U14	Thank you, good asker, and praise also to you! You've always shown a good reaction rate when you write questions. I see that Taavi's garment left behind, that you got in the way. What am I saying? You first pointed out support for local governments. Support for local governments in the last three years, I would say, has been a very important priority, a very important priority at the level of the government and, of course, also at the level of the Riigikogu. I say a lot has been done. Let's take the recovery of the same percentage of personal income tax. You will remember very well this 2009 when cut budgets were made and local authorities were promised that if the country is going better, we will restore this percentage. This was not the case in 2010, 2011, 2013 and 2016 but in 2017. We made that decision. We have allocated EUR 20 million to an increase in the percentage of personal income tax and EUR 10 million to the Equalisation Fund. And it was done in such a way that no task was assigned to the municipalities. You said that we have not supported different regions. But what I want to say is that we are taking the Ida-Virumaa programme, the South-East-Estonia programme, taking out a number of central squares that have worked out in recent years, rescue stations, these things have still been very much done and investments have been directed beyond Tallinn as well. However, this does not mean that we do not have to invest in Tallinn, of course we also need to invest here. For example, the government has decided to help the city theater to be fixed, with more than 9 million euros of public money being made available. Here, too, the previous government must be acknowledged. We will take this same football stadium in Lilleküla and then they wanted to invest in Tallinn and they invested, and a large amount of money was made available for this stadium. For this, we must congratulate the Prime Minister of Clothing at the time. But now from the teachers' salary. This is where you're hurting when you say it hasn't risen at all this year. I am saying that over the last three years, the minimum wage for teachers has risen considerably, hundreds of euros. This year, the minimum wage for teachers has risen from EUR 1150 to EUR 1250 compared to last year, with an average wage for teachers of EUR 1 500. I think we could expand the debate on education at all. We should support elementary schools even more strongly, whether it is the first or second stage of primary school, on the basis of the principle that the school should be as close to home as possible. Speaking of the rise in teachers' salaries in the coming years, as you know, the budget is currently being processed, true, in a very tense situation. So today to say out what are the specific numbers, it's a little early. We will present the budget to the honourable Riigikogu at the end of September.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U15	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U16	Next, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U17	Good George Ratas! Do you agree with your party partner Mikhail Kõlvart, who said that this government is the only way to maintain education in Russian in Estonia, and there will be no common education system in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U18	Thank you. I certainly agree with the position that the government is doing everything in its power to increase the skills of the Estonian language at all levels, whether it be children or adults, in order to improve the quality of Estonian language learning. And we're not doing this for the purpose of day-to-day point picking, we're doing it basically. This is where I really want to acknowledge the whole coalition. On Monday, when the formal sitting was held, I listened with interest when the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language was handed over on behalf of the Group of the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party. I think this is the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U19	Thank you. Echo Kallas, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U20	Thank you. As usual, you don't answer the question. I therefore repeat my question. As an influential member of the Central Party, did Mikhail Kõlvart tell the truth, or do you disprove him?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U21	Thank you. As for Mikhail Kõlvart, I participated with him in the coalition negotiations, and we were in the language block together as representatives of the Centre Party. His sincere desire is also to improve the skills of the Estonian language, its quality of study. I understand you want to take a sentence out of an interview and ask me to say yes or no, black or white. Well, that's exactly what we're going to do if we're just going through some headlines and content. It is a substantive document presented together by the political groups of the government coalition, and I will in any case say that the government will take it very seriously when it reaches the government from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U22	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U23	Thank you. I believe that the development plan for the vitality of the Estonian language is one of the great things, but it is quite different from teaching in Estonian for young people with Russian native language. I guess we both have enough understanding to tell the difference. One cannot replace the other and one cannot read to fill the other. But really, sometimes it is necessary to answer yes or no, black or white when the question is specific. There's nothing wrong with that. I will ask again what Kaja Kallas asked about in his questions and which, unfortunately, was not answered. Is it the wish of the coalition currently in office to continue to provide education in Russian in any case and why, in your opinion, did your partymates vote against the government drawing up a plan to allow education in Estonian for those young people whose native language is different, so that their future would be the same as that of Estonian young people, so that they would also have a chance in Estonian society and the Estonian labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U24	Thank you. Since you promised yourself a slightly longer question, maybe you could give me a little longer answer. I humbly ask you to do this. I think life is much more colorful than just black and white. Especially in the autumn: if we look out in nature now, we can see that there is still a lot more colour saturation, the color gamma is wide. And that's great. If you ask what the government is based on today, then surely there is a common education system in Estonia. This means that in both primary and upper secondary schools, the same national curricula apply equally to all schools. Now, you also touched on the vote on your question. When we are now talking about the draft 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic of Estonia to make Estonia's initial and school education uniform and Estonian', this is the draft 2 OE, submitted by the Reform Party Group, the result of yesterday's vote was as far as I know: 32 was in favour, 44 against and 21 members of the Riigikogu did not participate. Well, you asked about the result of the vote. The truth is, if you propose to the Government of the Republic, you need a minimum of 51 votes. It didn't come yesterday. What you are saying is that we need to improve the knowledge of the Estonian language, its education system. I very much agree, sincerely agree. And I don't think we need to talk about this until we're done. I even understand the situation before the elections. You remember very well, Mr. Clothes, how we discussed here, for example, the Kohtla-Järve Gymnasium. After the elections, I think the situation has calmed down, and it is good for this school, for the teachers and students of this school. They can work in peace. What I think we need to pay very serious attention to is still the quality of education. We've brought extra teachers to kindergartens, and I think this should go on. More teachers should be brought to the Russian-speaking classes in the first, second and third stages of comprehensive school, as much as the state budget has power. I think it's important. And it is also important that we move on to improving the quality of educational materials. I believe that you, as a statesman, have this concern in your heart, and in fact, the National Audit Office also referred very strongly to this concern. In his audit, the Auditor General noted that Estonian language education and Estonian language skills, including Estonian language skills among adults, need to be greatly improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U25	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U26	Next, please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U27	Thank you. Minister of Rural Affairs of Hää! We usually assume that the Minister will bring certainty to the sector by his actions, rather than creating uncertainty. Let the conditions of the area payments, unexpectedly altered from one half of the application round, be an example of uncertainty, the introduction of which changed with a relatively light hand what had been agreed with farmers so far. Now there is a panic about agricultural diesel. It must be said that agricultural diesel has been one of the most stable national measures to support agriculture for nearly 20 years. It has been flexible and accessible to farmers. Yes, I have to say that the bad side is that sometimes there are people who misuse it. Of course, these abusers must be held accountable, and so does the Tax and Customs Board. Now, however, we have heard that you are going to completely change the entire procedure so far, obviously creating a great deal of confusion, and perhaps bureaucracy as well. My question is: what are your plans and what are the timelines associated with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U28	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the question that has been asked, I will try to answer with great effort. Speaking of what you started to talk about, it was the lifting of the hexle cleaning requirement, on this subject I have been giving interviews and writing a couple of articles to explain the situation. This was the end of the introduction of more stringent European requirements. Many small farmers wanted to do so. Unfortunately, we have developed a conflict between small and large. Bigger ones wish they were bigger and bigger. This requirement forced the smaller ones to sell their lands or rent them cheaper. So I didn't think it was appropriate to clean up the hexle. And secondly, the requirement to clean the hex was bad because those who cannot cut and sell the hay are quite a lot. Where are they gonna put the picked-up hex? Unfortunately, they are creating a new environmental problem. Guess we've all been driving down the St. Petersburg Highway out of town. There are places along the road where the old silos and hay rolls rot, and the paddles grow through. We do not need to create such situations in Estonia. And we don't have to have a little big fight. But when it comes to blue fuel, it is indeed on the table and precisely because farmers have been punished for using blue fuel by pushing it open in winter. Another problem is thefts using different methods. We have to put a stop to this. And in order not to set aside such a large amount from the state budget, it is nearly five million euros, the solution is being developed. We have a simpler and more complicated solution on the table. Unfortunately, the answer to the question is over. If necessary, I can talk about this further in the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U29	Thank you. The Kalvi Hard is now an opportunity to ask a more specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U30	Thank you. Although I did not have a direct question about this hiccup, this is a condition agreed by the'sector'. But there are certainly two parties in the sector: some do not like it and others do. However, if a common agreement has been found, it was not right, in my opinion, to change it from one half to the next. But we're going back to special diesel. As I have pointed out, there are certainly those who misuse it. Of course, the Tax and Customs Board must and has dealt with them, but now, because of some small nuances, you want to create more bureaucracy and confuse the situation for farmers. As Minister for Agriculture, you are perhaps primarily worried about the money that does not come into the state budget, not about whether our farmers have a normal chance of using diesel fuel. I'm going to give you a chance to explain what this new system is like, because farmers don't know it today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U31	Thank you for the additional question. I must say that I myself have also been an active farmer, the last time, 15 to 16 years ago. Unfortunately, life changed without being able to cope as a small farmer; conditions were not good enough. But I'm aware of the way it used to be to compensate for excise subsidies. What kind of system do we want to implement in our house now? Let me say one thing for sure: we are not going to create more bureaucracy for farmers with any solution. A farmer does not have to suffer because, despite the work and other controls carried out by the Tax and Customs Board, nearly EUR 5 million of blue diesel per year is still diverted. A simpler solution would be to stop painting at all, to pay farmers direct financial support to those entitled to do so. The second solution that we have under consideration is that the blue fuel will remain and, in order to control the situation, we will create such a system that, in both filling stations and wholesale storage, the person who buys the blue diesel will first have to be identified. If he's entitled to it, you can buy it if you don't, you can't. And the second option is to set limits. Let's say if you're entitled to a maximum of 5 tons of that fuel in a year, but if you want to buy 30 grand, you get a limit. Our southern neighbours have a good example of this. Of course, limits must not be such that farmers cannot cope with farming. In any case, the weather effects must also be covered by this excise refund and account must also be taken of the more difficult cultivation conditions resulting from the soil. We are in no way going to impose additional bureaucratic demands. We have a country university who can tell us very correct figures so that this rate of excise duty is adequately compensated. The PRIA also has sufficient data for this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U32	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! It is not always worth following the example of the southern neighbours, then you can get into a big tax pit. But I am surprised at your answer to our colleague. On the one hand, you say that it is as if the loss is definitely 5 million, i.e. some EUR 5 million has been stolen. You describe a new system that should be based on a hypothetical limit whose variability depends very much on weather, cultivation and more. It's very hard to understand how it could be effective. Instead, a normal identification system could be created that would prevent abusers or, let us say, unwarranted subjects from buying it. But there have also been some indications in the press that you have business interests in some gas station chains. Would you please disprove it here in our honorable hall and confirm that the decisions you want to make and implement are not related to your personal business interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U34	Thank you for a very interesting question. I'll answer, start from the back. I've never had any business interests in gas stations. Twenty years ago, I was tied to a small-scale gas station, but it didn't sell blue fuel. And it's been a few decades. I have nothing to do with any gas station chains, either verbally, in writing or financially. I can swear it with my hand on my heart. And I would like to emphasise once again that the schemes that we are currently considering, as decided at the meeting of the Cabinet on 8 August, are to remedy the situation so that this money does not disappear. The identification system comes in any case, you can't without it. I didn't say there was any other solution without it. And in any case, even if blue fuel is lost, only those who are entitled to it would receive support. Others don't get any support. It's basic. We want this support to reach the right people, and I will do my best to make it happen. And I will also do my best not to add any bureaucracy to farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U35	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U36	The next question is Aivar Sõerdi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U37	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister,
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U38	I'm sorry! I would also like to clarify what the Minister is asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U39	Mr. Taavi to Asa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications. At the beginning of the summer, you went to the Committee on Economic Affairs to present your draft budget for the following year. I wasn't there myself, I'm not a member of the Economic Commission, but I looked at the slides you presented there. I have a question for you right now specifically about the money for road construction in the budget for next year. Road-building money is decreasing, especially the money for the construction of local roads. But I am specifically asking you about the four-line construction of the main lines. You are now continuing like the road construction projects of previous governments, but the question is, when the four-line section of Mäoni is completed by 2022 (the Tallinn Tartu highway is being discussed), what will happen to the section beyond Mäo. In order for this construction to begin in 2023 and 2024 at all, the project should begin immediately. You've said yourself that 3 million a year would need project money. Will there be EUR 3 million in next year's budget and will next year's public procurement be announced so that the design of road sections can begin from Mäo?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U40	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable questioner! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I specify so much that there are two sections in the design or preparation of the Mäeküla detour and the Põltsamaa detour. As far as the rest is concerned, indeed, in order to move forward with four lines of road, they must first be designed. From there, there is an opportunity to build them according to current plans in 2023 and 2024. Certainly in the coming days or weeks these plans will be more specific. The Minister of Finance has come up with a proposal that these sections of the road could also be built by a PPP procedure, which in this sense would make sense that as far as I can remember, these four-line roads have been talked about all along and have not been completed so far. The PPP would really help us to build these roads quickly. Yes, borrowing would be cheaper, but unfortunately, we have to follow our current budget rules. The loan burden in Estonia is low, the loan could be taken up quite a lot, and I think it would be wise for infrastructure objects to take out loans and build them with the help of a loan. But, unfortunately, there are budgetary rules that will not allow us to use this loan in any way. So it's definitely worth considering the PPP option. And after this consideration, you can then tell more about how these four-line roads will be built in Estonia in the future. However, as I said, design or at least partial design at the level of the preliminary project should also have been done for the PPP, and probably by the State. I'm sure it's the state's job to buy land. The 3 million you mentioned must indeed be for this purpose. The budgeting process is under way, and I assure you that I will do everything in my power to get this money into the state budget so that we can proceed with the design of four-line roads and, consequently, the purchase of land.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U41	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U42	Thank you. Minister, I thank you for this answer. I would also like to ask here that by November, the development planned for the current orientations should reach a specific road-saving plan for 2021 to 2030. Now, if there's a plan to proceed with the design at some point, I'm still gonna ask you about these basics. What kind of initial task do you give for design? At present, 2 + 1 lanes are in the interest of passing between Pikknurme and Puurmani. When you start designing it, what's your starting point: is there a 2 + 1 lane, or is there going to be a four-line section between the Pikknurme and the Puurmani?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U43	Thank you. First of all, this initial task depends on the government's decision on PPP projects. If the decision on the implementation of these projects is positive, this means that at the same time much longer sections will go into construction than public funding would be possible. Perhaps once more: roads will be ready faster, but on the other hand, longer sections will be in operation. The current trend is that if the PPP is not implemented, the sections that are currently not changed to 2 + 1 rows will first be built into two rows and, in the run, those that are 2 + 1. If the PPP is chosen, it is likely that it will be possible to design both the sections at the same time and put them into construction at the same time. This funding will be one at a time, the amount is just higher. But on all main highways, or Tallinna-Narva, Tallinna-Pärnu and Tallinna-Tartu highways, there should also be two lines in both directions in those parts where there are 2 + 1 sections.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U44	Thank you. It's about Tavi Clothes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U45	Thank you, good manager Henn Põlluaas! My point, too, is that of Minister Taavi Asa, you insisted that it be said to whom it is a question. My question has two sides. First of all, we actually understand very well that this talk about PPP is a distortion of the eye that you have no intention of actually building these roads. This is particularly because neither the previous government nor the government currently in office has prepared four-way roads for not one metre, and it is not possible to build these 1+2 sections on the basis of these projects on a four-track basis. I think we all understand that perfectly. The first part of my question is whether it is true that my claim that at this point no one metre of four-track road has been designed or ready to be built. And the other half is, too. Last time the RES was put together in spring 2016, when the previous government was still in office, 170 million euros were planned for the four-track construction of the Tartu highway until Mäoni. There are now rumors that this amount could be cut by next year's budget. Can you confirm today before the Riigikogu that there will be no cut-off for the four-track construction of the Tartu highway and that next year it will continue in this volume, just as the previous government put it in the RES in spring 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U46	Thank you. First of all, I assure you that PPP projects are not a distortion of the eye. There are quite a large number of schools built or reconstructed in Tallinn, and the children who go there can enjoy the school buildings in order. So it is certainly not a transformation of the eye, it is a solution that is actually used and it is possible to touch these buildings by hand in Tallinn. As far as design is concerned, the Reform Party was in power for 17 or 18 years, no longer remembering how long. And how many of those four-liners did you design? In that time, all of them could actually have been designed and, frankly, they could have been built. But the projects are ready. The Võõbu section project has been completed to build the road for four rows from the place where the construction will end next year. [[???Hääl saalist: 'See oli enne juba.'???]] And just as I said, there's a detour of Mäeküla and a detour of Põltsamaa. As far as cutting is concerned, it is certainly not true that this money is not foreseen. The budget and strategy provide money to build a four-line road on the Hill. But once again, the government will be discussing in the near future whether to make these four lines of you in the PPP procedure. There may be changes if the government decides that these four-line roads are to be built in a PPP procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U47	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I asked the honourable members of the Riigikogu who are asking for a verbatim report to tell who the question is addressed to, but we can also make it easier, and I will say it myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U48	Next is the opportunity to ask a question on Lauri Läänemets and the answer is Minister for Rural Affairs Mart Järvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, For years, the Rural Promotion Foundation has been a great helper for the farmer and has performed its tasks well in both good and difficult times. I read the press release from the Ministry of Rural Affairs last Friday, which talks about new initiatives that are being taken through the MES. As I understand it, one of these initiatives does not relate to agriculture, but is the distribution of land not to people living in Estonia. And the purpose of this is to amend the Income Tax Act. Could you explain in more detail what kind of initiative this is? And in a situation where there is no extra money in the state budget, there is no plan for this initiative, which is not related to agriculture, to happen at the expense of farmers? I mean, the budget for the MES.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U50	Thank you for your question, Mr Läänemets. I will respond by saying that the Rural Promotion Foundation has really been a good helper for a farmer and a rural man in a broader sense all these years. We came to the government to improve the situation in rural areas, so that the new strategy could also provide even better support for rural areas. We have a strategy for the years to come. The main focus we are paying attention to is the image of rural areas, the community, jobs and entrepreneurship, access to services, advisory services and infrastructure. In order to bring young families to the country, we intend to improve these conditions with the help of the MES. We're not gonna take money from anybody. I just heard it's that kind of fear. We are negotiating with the Ministry of Finance to find additional resources for better capitalisation of the MES. And one way to do that is to take money out of the state budget and not take money out of anyone's state budget. We want the capitalisation of the MES to be better and to put the brake on the fact that Estonia's land is sold to large buyers. The land often migrates from there to foreign owners. We intend to come up with a bill that gives private individuals the opportunity to sell their land to a representative of the state, or the MES, and then receive a 20% tax concession. We have taken the example of the southern neighbour, Latvia, who started this thing last year. According to the Latvian Minister of Agriculture, the system works quite well. We are going to create, through the MES, once again, good conditions for the arrival of young families, including those families who wish to return from the border. We are doing all this for the development of rural entrepreneurship, agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U51	Thank you. A further question. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U52	Thank you. Let me get this straight. The MES is going to spread this land to these people? If so, I wonder what this time perspective is. When's all this gonna happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U53	Thank you for the additional question. Well, that requires a change of law, and not a change of law. It all depends on how quickly we can complete these drafts, in the government office to negotiate matters more precisely. I hope that we will be done with this in the next year, that these things will have passed through this Riigikogu as well. The question was whether the MES would disperse the lands. I'm sure he's not gonna split anything up. If MES buys the land, it will have the opportunity to rent out these plots to those who want to start farming. We're working with the local governments. We have three regional pilot projects in which municipalities are looking for a possible farm place with both land and forest. We will soon also send out forms to get information on potential arrivals and to map out their wishes: what they expect the state to do, what information the state could provide. We want all this information to focus on the MES. There is an advisory service in the MES, and there is also a need to strengthen this work, to achieve better quality of the advisory service. Through the advisory service, we can begin to provide the necessary information to potential arrivals. I wouldn't answer that question for a while. Our field of work is wide, work is under way, but we are doing everything we can to ensure that Estonia does not empty out, but is refilled with young families and other people so that both agriculture and other entrepreneurship develop in the country. After all, agriculture is a branch of business.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U54	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Minister for Rural Affairs! In addition to everything else, I also heard you say that you have used a little bit of the example of our southern neighbours, the Latvians. Their process was launched last year, and it is still difficult to make very large generalisations, however. Have you, in consultation with your colleague, learned how much it still is for the young people of Latvia to take advantage of this land when they enter the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U56	Thank you for a good question. Unfortunately, I can't get the numbers out right now. We will probably meet the Latvian Minister next time on the 23rd day in Finland. We were in Poland last week, but I didn't realize to ask for any more details, but on his confirmation, Kaspars [Gerhards] is his name, the process has started well, surprisingly well. I can ask for further information and submit it to Mrs Urve Tiidus in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U57	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U58	Next, please, Heidy Purga. This is a question for Mr Aasa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Taavi Aas! We all read daily news that describes the bus and bus drivers' troubles on the Estonian roads of the ATKO Group. It's quite versatile. While buses do not leave on the first day of school, drivers are drunk or overtired, buses do not meet the requirements, not to mention minor violations of the rules. This list may be continued. I believe a lot of people have noticed these news, including you. There is, of course, another side on the same subject, and there is repeated news about the immediate call to the ATKO regime, the withdrawal of the line permits. Local authorities are in great trouble with this company. More than six months ago, a Commission was set up under the direction of the MKM to deal with the suspension or withdrawal of ATKO's licence. What conclusions have you reached in this committee, and when will the final decision be?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U60	Thank you, good questioner! I have also read about the problems you have been talking about, but first I say that there are counties, there are public transport centres where ATKO serves and where there are no such serious problems. First of all, it would explain that public transport is organised by public transport centres, i.e. NPOs, whose shareholders are local authorities. Personally, I think it is right for these public transport centres to be as independent as possible in their decisions so that they can organise public transport on the ground as best as possible. By the way, they also carry out procurements, conclude contracts with carriers. I therefore think it is right that these public transport centres be able to operate as independently as possible. I do not think that the state must necessarily intervene everywhere. The Northern Estonian Public Transport Centre has taken various decisions here. I also intend to have a meeting with the Northern Estonian Public Transport Centre in the near future to discuss these issues. However, of course, this independence of public transport centres is not absolute. The Estonian state is ultimately responsible for public transport activities and funding public transport, and therefore the Estonian state must also have a say here. Of course, the state of Estonia must first and foremost ensure that public transport centres carry out the procurement correctly. That, in my opinion, is the primary role. The second role is, of course, to control the use of money in public transport centres, as the donor is the state. But otherwise, public transport centres should be as independent as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U61	Thank you. Specific question, Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U62	Thank you to the President of the sitting. Dear Taavi Aas! However, we are talking about very serious cases here. Why has all this taken so long, and may your actions have been hindered by the fact that it is your good acquaintance and party companion, as well as our colleague here in the Riigikogu, the Sarapuud family business?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U63	Thank you. I think the decisions that the Northern Estonian Public Transport Centre has taken reject your speculative claim. Once again, I think it is right that public transport centres are as independent as possible on such issues. Of course, public transport centres must comply with the law. I wouldn't tie these decisions to any time frame. We do not report to public transport centres how quickly they have to make decisions, what procedures are for their administrative procedures and what results they have to achieve. This is the decision of the public transport centres themselves, and I think it is the only right one.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U64	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Your answers are too strong that the country does not, like, have a very big role to play. That everything has to be held responsible on the ground, but the funding is in the hands of the state, which means that there is a moral and spiritual obligation to ensure that all requirements are met. Are you saying that there are no representatives of the state in these councils at all, or are they just chaoticly there? But my question is not just about ATKO, it is about the system at all. If one company is involved in so many cases, will Taavi Aas take action and take responsibility when these technical failures result in the first death?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U66	Thank you. No minister in the Republic of Estonia is a police officer, and I hope it will remain that way. Some questions back you were actually actually worried about the well-being of the local authorities. I continue to believe that local authorities have autonomy and freedom to decide and act. Of course, the state has a certain degree of control and, as I said, in public transport centres. The state is a financier, the state must control the use of the money. The State must verify that the procurement has been carried out correctly. Yes, there are also representatives of the state in these public transport centres. The representatives of the state are doing their job there. But no minister, I hope, will ever write to anyone whether the agreement must be terminated or the agreement must not be terminated. I do not think that this would certainly be the proper behaviour of the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U67	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U68	Next up, Helmen Hunter. Question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior, who participated in the Prime Minister's duties on 15 May, answered my then question concerning the situation of those who are caring for themselves: 'This is one of the very clear points of pain in our society, which is why it is also highlighted in the programmes of all political parties. When I try to translate it, without being an in-depth specialist in this field, I say that our aim is to reduce the burden on those who care about ourselves, we have an attempt to create opportunities for help. ' Reminder to both political parties and voters: the Centre Party programme was ahead of the elections, that you would ensure worthy support and retirement for your relatives and raise care allowance to EUR 100 per month. From the Fatherland programme, the sentence in the Coalition Agreement is that you establish national principles for the payment of carer support. The EKRE programme even promised, in the run-up to the elections, that the allowance for the care of people with deep disabilities would be raised to the minimum wage and that the support for those who need it would be guaranteed. And I have to say, this last one is my favorite. That is a very true promise, and I would like to vote with two hands in favour if such a bill came into this Chamber. But now the question. May has become September, things have certainly become clearer. The question is whether and what in the state budget for 2020 will ease the situation of informal carers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U70	Thank you, good questioner. It's sad. Or, first of all, I would like to thank you for making a good overview of these various platforms of government departments, but I would have heard with great interest what the Social Democrats or the Reform Party said about this on their platforms. But I think what the Minister of the Interior said, as you said here in Question Time, is a very important subject. I'm sure I agree with that. On the other hand, it has unfortunately been very difficult to solve in Estonia. This is an extremely important issue and I am pleased that you have consistently raised this topic and field in your work, both as a member of the Riigikogu and as a Minister for Social Protection. You yourself know that one of the main challenges and questions is how we can provide for relief in the budget, on the one hand, but on the other hand, what you asked for is how the carers can go back to the labour market better, more easily, and also be on the labour market during this period. As we know, this issue is also very complex. In general, care is a long-term care system which, in my opinion, poses very serious challenges to Estonia in the conditions of an ageing population. But there are also good messages in an ageing population. In particular, the new population forecast of Statistics Estonia shows that our population will not shrink so quickly and that the decline in the share of working age is less dramatic than the forecast for 2014. In recent years Estonia's population has increased. On 6 June, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Affairs presented proposals for financing the organisation of long-term care and the modernisation of the policy of people with special needs in the government office. The decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of 6 June was as follows: First of all, the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will develop implementing and financing schemes for the measures necessary to create a long-term care system and submit them to the Government of the Republic for decision at the end of this year and also in the following year. The Ministry of Social Affairs will also submit specified requests for additional resources in the course of preparing the state budget strategy and the draft state budget in 2020 in accordance with future decisions of the Cabinet of Government and the analysis of the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U71	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U72	Thank you. At least it is clear in the house that there will be no concrete relief in 2020 and there will be no funding in the state budget. It is just perhaps a clarification that, despite the non-supporting position of the previous government regarding the increase in support for children with special needs, thanks to the Social Affairs Committee, which I then had the honour to manage, and the support of this large hall, however, from 1 January 2020 these subsidies will rise and increase several times, thus mitigating the situation of their parents and carers. Perhaps as information to the audience, this means 13000 children and 14 years of unchanged support. But then I have a question because there will be no change for the caretakers until perhaps 2021. What is the government's plan regarding the provision of nursing homes and additional resources to municipalities? I remember very clearly that here we certainly agreed with the Centre Party that, if necessary, a person should have access to a nursing home and that his pension should be sufficient. We all know what pensions are like today, we know what the chances of loved ones are. In fact, it produces new family carers because they do not have the opportunity to pay these care home fees; they stay at home with acquired education and no opportunity to work. It actually produces people who work very hard for 30, 40, sometimes for 20 euros. Do you have a message about pensions and nursing homes for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U73	Thank you for that question. It certainly cannot be accepted that 2020 will not change anything better in this area. I certainly do not want to agree with this and do not agree with it because the people who work in this area will certainly work every day for a better quality service. At the same time, you say that there isn't enough pension to pay the place fee for a nursing home. I would even say that this is a question of the dignity of the 101-year-old Estonian state, that if a person has worked 40+ years, the average old-age pension that is today will not allow him to pay the monthly bill in full for it in very many nursing homes. What's going to help? Surely, people's own savings, the support of their loved ones and, if they are not enough, the support of the local government. You asked what would happen to pensions. According to today's projections, an increase of at least 8% is expected by indexation in April next year. I think that if we now take the same relative poverty limit and these latest data come from 2017 we can see that over 50% of older people actually live below the limit of relative poverty. I think this is actually the most serious signal that we need a greater step in raising pensions than just indexation. In this respect, and in all the promises that you have read and promised by the parties, reality always comes. And the reality is what comes from the possibilities of the state budget. I have already answered here once today, and I also say to you, Mrs Helmen Kütt, that we are currently drawing up a state budget. We have the economic forecast, we have the financial forecast. I will finish the answer to this question with this idea: I still think that Estonia is moving towards it in order to be a social welfare state. But I think we should also seriously hold a debate on how to keep all these services going, given our tax burden and the European Union's rulebook, over the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U74	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U75	Thank you. Prime Minister! Indeed, the payment for a nursing home is, as a rule, very high for a person. However, nursing homes are struggling with labour shortages. For example, at the beginning of October, I have also been invited to the Round Table in Võru, where the managers of the unemployment fund and nursing homes meet to discuss serious labour shortages. The argument is that our unemployment benefits are already so high that people are not motivated to work. My question is, have any solutions to this problem been proposed in the long-term plan for long-term care introduced to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U76	Thank you. First of all, labour shortages. It is clear that this is a very difficult job. With very hard work, both physically and certainly spiritually. After all, we know that people who do this work often complain about personal health problems and concerns. You said that the benefits of an inactive person are so high that they have no motivation to go to work. We have certainly contributed to wage increases in the social field this year. I think that the reform linked to the rise in the tax-free minimum, which actually gives people who earn just small or medium wages more money in net terms, will receive more and more supportive words. If you look at the following proposals that the Ministry of Social Affairs wants to make in order to focus more structural resources on reducing the maintenance burden, these main proposals relate to the following: First, to ensure special care services for people with special psychological needs, second, to ensure nursing care and family medical care at the general care institution, third, to pay special care allowance and fourth, to use the European Social Fund to provide new long-term care services and reform-related development.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U77	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U78	Next, please, Katri Raik! The question is economic and... I'm sorry! I rushed ahead. The question is on Urmas Kruus for the Minister of Rural Affairs Mart Järvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! My question is driven both by your public statements and by your speeches at the meeting between the members of the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Minister. There you said that you have been in contact with the Minister of Finance and, in order to implement your ideas to re-establish young families in the country, you would need about 100 million, which the MES could implement. According to you, the Minister of Finance has said that this is a positive plan. I would actually like to know that how many families for the money you are planning to allocate will be settled on land, how much it will actually cost, and whether the positive experience you described in the case of Latvia means that the sellers of the land are happy or that the buyers of the land are happy. Introduce this very clear objective that you have in your mind and which is not very understood by the public at the moment. How many families, how much does it cost, and where does that money come from? Especially in this context, where we know that the government has to cut 50 million. The Ministry of Rural Affairs also has a cut-off function, like any other ministry. Please, open up some cards!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U80	Thank you for your question. I begin by saying that the money we are applying for to the Rural Promotion Foundation is not specifically intended to support anyone. We're not buying any paintings. This money is likely to go to the Rural Promotion Foundation in such a way that 50% of it can be used in the event of the possibility of land being bought, and another 50% is the additional loan facilities of the MES, so that the MES can borrow the money, which is the best viable solution for helping rural areas. The EKRE Finnish department has received a lot of information from people who would like to come back, and they usually have quite decent capital on their own, collected to come to Estonia and buy their own land. People often also have a business plan, but additional resources are needed to implement this business plan. Here you can come to the aid of the MES, who can borrow money, can do so in the future in the form of a long-term loan. Currently, MES usually guarantees loans from banks. We also want the MES to have a better lending capacity and buy-in of land to allow for the possibility of renting out land. The question was what the purchase and sale of land in Latvia has done. According to the Minister, the best result is that phone calls to rural people have been lost to sell their land, to sell their land. I get two or three calls a week that you have a piece of land there, please sell it. I don't know who these callers are, but this annoying is endless. It is not only I who have stated it, but a lot of people say it. We're not gonna put a price tag on that money. We are creating terms, and I say once again, that young families would either want to go from the city to the country or come back from abroad. To do this, we create the conditions and we collect the information these needy guys get from the MES.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U81	Thank you. Specific question, Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U82	Thank you. Dear Minister, I wouldn't want to be malicious. You claimed that your information came from Finnish EKRE branches. Does this support or plan apply only to EKRE members? I'm interested in the basic analysis of where you collect your data and on what basis you want to make decisions. In your plan, which you have always described, you have also said that a great deal of land is being bought up by foreigners. So please tell me how many foreign countries currently belong to Estonia. It's a very big problem. And the third thing that amazes me the most. On your left is the honorable Prime Minister, who, as Prime Minister of the previous government, answered my written questions in a relatively neutral or even reluctant manner when I asked the country not to sell lands, but to consider the possibility of renting them out to young farmers, for example. Now it turns out, instead of simply selling state lands in the first stage to the same evil investors who are both foreign and large companies, you are going to provide the MES with additional resources so that they can be distributed again to a small group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U83	Thank you for the additional question. Once again, we are not going to give anything to anyone, just as you have just finished your question. These land are either for hire-out or for sale, if there is a purchase request. I agree with a hundred percent of your previous statement that the state should not put these countries back in competitions. I know that the Land Office, under the authority of the Ministry of the Environment, has completed many leases and land will either be re-selled or a new round of lease announcements will be organised. Unfortunately, it only raises land prices and suffers from it by our active farmers. It is my own wish, however, that we have not yet agreed in the government that, as a matter of priority, the land that was not reformed, i.e. not returned to farmers, if there were no descendants that are currently managed by the state, could also come under any circumstances to use the MES and we could help those who want to land through the MES. The only reason I brought in this Finnish issue is because it is the information that people want to come back. They're looking for information about the possibilities and they're asking because they find direct contact. There's no other connection to these things. Only that we know that they are actually trying to come to the country and often their new business plan, which has been ripened in the head, to implement here and thus to promote the Estonian rural and Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U84	Thank you. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U85	Thank you, good manager. Minister, it is a pleasure to meet you for the first time. I would like to ask whether you support the plan of Mart Helme, the Minister of the Interior of your party partner, to end the visa waiver between Estonia and Ukraine, so that Ukrainians will not be able to do so without a visa when coming to Estonia in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U86	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, we have not had such a debate either between ourselves or in the cabinet. The fact that we have Ukrainians as temporary agency workers through rental companies in other countries is certainly a bad solution. What this solution will be, it should be, it will certainly be discussed in the Cabinet. I don't know how to answer it today or yes, because I haven't even thought about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U87	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U88	Katri Raik, question to Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Asa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Economic Affairs! I'm asking about my concerns about Ida-Virumaa. We have welcomed the fact that only 300 people were made redundant in the energy sector. But recently the newspaper North Coast, in cooperation with Eesti Energia, pointed out that 840 jobs in Eesti Energia will be reduced from the beginning of this year to the end of the year. People have also become builders of Finland and Norway. Together with the data of the private service business, the reduction in the number of jobs is even greater, estimated at between 1600 and 1700. Alutaguse and Narva-Jõesuu are already reviewing their budgets, as tax receipts are clearly worse. What are the concrete and rapid steps to create new jobs in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U90	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, I'd be careful getting information from the papers on the North Coast. Often, the situation is seen as much worse than it really is. Now, of these 840 employees. Of these 840, 324 will indeed remain in this last wave of autumn layoffs. The rest were laid off in the spring, linked to the closure of old shocked energy blocks. They were largely people of retirement age or pre-retirement age who mostly retired. Those 340 who are now laid off in the autumn wave are really of working age. For them, Eesti Energia has developed a plan of measures, both training and further training, they receive compensation, a separate fund has been set up to support them. As far as jobs are concerned, the government has discussed and intends to renegotiate in the near future all that relates to the energy sector, including the oil shale sector, and to take decisions on how we view the construction of an oil factory and the construction of a refinery in Ida-Virumaa. These must be the kind of objects that bring the most jobs. Of course, there are a number of other measures in the portfolio of the Minister for Regional Affairs, and I am talking about what concerns the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Both of these objects provide jobs for miners first, but they also provide additional jobs in other areas of life. So I think the solution that has been achieved today in Ida-Virumaa is optimal in this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U91	Thank you. Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U92	Thank you. The electoral programme of the Centre Party was adopted on 13 October last year. There is a chapter of fiscal policy that literally states: 'We are creating regional tax incentives. ' When and how much tax incentives will be introduced for companies operating in Ida-Virumaa, where there is an obvious need for these benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U93	Thank you. I think that in the electoral programmes of all political parties, there are points that these parties have not been able to put into the coalition agreement. It is a normal democratic process, a coalition is put together by several parties and not all the pre-election thoughts of political parties can fit into a single coalition agreement. For Ida-Viru County, as I said, there is a whole package of measures, which is under the administration of the Minister for Regional Affairs. I think he would certainly be more competent than I would be. But, as I said, Eesti Energia has also created a special fund to help people who have lost their jobs due to the increased price of CO2 quotas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U94	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U95	Thank you. Good Minister Taavi Aas! I'll let you know that the background information on my question comes from the Postman. I can't judge whether it's more or less reliable than it was on the North Coast. But you said the government would soon come to the discussion of decisions to invest in the oil plant and the refinery. It's very nice. We need to discuss it. From the economics of Postimees we could read on 3 September that Eesti Energia is planning to reach the decision to invest in a new oil plant this year and the decision to invest in a pre-refinery next year. Somehow, Eesti Energia has come so far as to make these decisions before the government discusses this issue, but perhaps the press is at stake here. My question is that, now that the government is discussing the investment of the refinery and the oil plant, can you tell us where the data come from, what are the assumptions that are based on the CO2 quota and the price of oil on the world market, and what is expected, for example, of the European Union's climate policy? Do we expect that in 20 and 30 years' time, there will be a country in the world whose climate policy promises to buy oil made from oil shale, fossil fuel, consume it and emit CO2 into the air?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U96	Thank you. It is precisely because of climate policy that the Government of the Republic is discussing these issues. Indeed, what concerns the construction of the oil plant is a purely commercial decision of Eesti Energia. It is true that Estonia is the owner of Eesti Energia, so the general meeting has a certain right and competence to influence this decision. But purely commercially, Eesti Energia could really make this decision without the Government of the Republic having to discuss this issue, but because of climate policy we are doing it. In the case of a refinery, the situation is slightly different. Its possible founder is Eesti Energia, but also the Viru Chemistry Group, which is a private company. In the case of this plant, the question is whether the Estonian state should support the creation of this plant in any way. That is why the Government of the Republic of Estonia is discussing this issue. But once again, it has to do with climate policy. Prices and cost-benefit analyses are still based on very thorough studies, which have also been submitted to the Government of the Republic. These studies say that the use of fossil fuels in the world as a whole will increase until at least 2040. Of course, in order for our oil shale oil to be competitive, it is already expected that it should be purified from sulphur, or there is a need for this refinery. Now this oil can be traded, but really, as the year goes on, it becomes more complicated as a result of climate policy. If this oil had passed through the refinery, it would certainly be better to market it. At present, all studies show that the use of fuels is rather increasing and the price is not falling. This is due in particular to the fact that old deposits are exhausted and the introduction of new ones is simply objectively more expensive because they are located in such places that it is more expensive. Therefore, the oil shale industry has a certain perspective. Yes, we must take into account that the share of energy or direct combustion and electricity generation will certainly decrease, which is certainly more expensive. In the case of oil, there is some perspective. These business plans are based on a 10-year return period of 15 years. It is estimated that in 15 years the situation may be different, but by then these plants will have to have paid off, and by then there will certainly have to be measures taken in Estonia to make it clear what will be done by people who will no longer be able to work in the fossil fuel sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U97	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U98	Next, Kalle asks for Laane and the answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U99	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Prime Minister! I still have concerns about our Estonia's internal security and public order and, of course, the key to security. When we look at the media image of recent days, we are seeing more and more news that shows either violent crimes or a real threat to national security. Let's take the case of last night when they found out about the apartment building from Õismägi, I realize that even more than one projectile. Nobody, except the security authorities, knows what that purpose was, why they were collected. Let us look at what is happening in this area in the key to the budget. According to Statistics Estonia and the Ministry of Finance, government expenditure by government function (COFOG), i.e. a percentage of GDP, indicates that 1.8% of GDP was spent on public policy and security in 2015, 1.9% of GDP in 2016, 1.9% of GDP in 2017, 1.9% of GDP not available in 2017, 1.5% in 2019. As we can see, the financial resources available from the state budget for this area have been severely reduced. My question is, what is the result of such a decline?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U100	Good questioner, thank you very much for your continued concern and concern for the area of internal security! After all, I remember the previous formations when we were in one party, even then you always had concerns about the area of internal security. I'm sure that's understandable, because you're a good ex-cop and the Minister of the Interior. You read at the beginning of your question that certain cases of crime, I would even say, have come to the press with a tragic end. You also referred to this, I understand, the case of Õismäe that came out of the open yesterday. I want to express my appreciation to the defense police and the police. This case shows that they operate very professionally and reach, I hope, as often as possible, the perpetrator before he can realise what he has done. You've counted a number of percentages. I understand that you have tried to count the percentages that represent expenditure on internal security as a ratio to GDP. I'm not gonna argue about these percentages right now, I'm gonna have a little different percentages, but the magnitudes are similar. You asked me what was the origin of this decline. Well, we'll have to watch for years. I'll start with what we decided here a few years ago. It's about this year. In 2019 an increase of EUR 12.9 million has been foreseen from the state budget for the staff of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Salvation Board's payroll fund has increased by EUR 7.9 million. That means a bigger raise than ever for patrol officers and rescue officers. You could even say that this year, the pay of the first-line rescuer increased by about 23.6% and the basic salary of the first-line patrol police officer is a minimum of 1280 euros, together with the premium for the PPA region is about 1700 euros in Ida-Virumaa and 1600 euros in the capital city of Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U101	Thank you. Specific question, Kalle Laanet, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U102	Thank you. I'm specifying that my data is from Statistics and the Treasury Department, that's where I took it. Maybe the data might vary a little, but as you said, the magnitude is the same. But let us look at everything that has taken place here in some form in recent months, when politicians have sent very different messages to the public. Let's take the same police director or attorney general, or even the fact that the Minister of the Interior is in such a hurry that he won't even be able to say hello to the Cadets of the Academy of Home Affairs on 1 September. They're all signs, actually. Similarly, it is a sign of how much money we are allocating from the state budget to this area. It certainly does not create a greater sense of security inside or outside the field. But my point of clarification is quite different. As politicians, we have discussed quite a lot about whether there could also be a specific percentage of the state budget in the area of internal security, as in the case of the defence budget, that would be whatever, 1.9%, 1.5% or 2%. What do you think of that? If there were a fixed specific percentage of the state budget every year, there could be better planning, and also in society, I believe, there would be a much greater sense of security.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U103	Thank you. First of all, a few more words to answer your first question. For example, if you look at the change in the budget of the Ministry of Interior in 2018 versus 2019, there were very clear reasons why a larger investment was needed in 2018, it was the purchase of a so-called surveillance aircraft, as well as the purchase of the Border Guard Ship Raju. Certainly, the role of the European Union in this time series, the last three or four years until that and the following year, will also be played by the fact that the financial framework of the European Union is entering its final phase and starting again in 2021. You brought in the Minister of the Interior. In my opinion, the Minister of the Interior has dealt seriously with matters in his field. We were just a few days ago in Piusa looking at the eastern border. The Minister of the Interior brought to the government office a very realistic plan to build a very strong eastern border, which is also in line with the budget. Also, as I replied at the beginning of this Question Time, we have decided to repair the infrastructure of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Police Rescue Commands of the PBGB. An additional EUR 44 million has been planned, and the final investment plan will be set up in cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the RKAS. I think it is very important to you, too, that the PPP buildings and rescue commandos be repaired across Estonia. The third part of your question was whether internal security would be linked to 2% or 1.5% of the budget. We have indeed done so in the budget with defence spending, and it is very good, it is like this, I would say, a very strong political agreement, with a minimum of 2%. We see that defence costs have increased both financially and in percentage terms. I think that's right. Our second major objective is R &amp; D, there is an agreement that public investment should be 1% of GDP and 2% of private sector investment, but we know that neither the public nor the private sector can achieve these objectives at the moment. Will another very important part of the budget be linked to a percentage? The same question could be asked, in principle, by every minister, every area. I would like to say that I support a greater contribution to internal security, but also an even greater budget lockdown. That, I think, is the issue of future debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U104	Thank you. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U105	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! We know that your coalition partners want to limit public funding for minority organisations. Do you think that we should continue to support LGBT associations through, for example, the budget and the Gambling Tax Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U106	Thank you. You have a question, too, but I don't think you're going to be able to ask it, and now you've taken advantage of the opportunity. When it comes to LGBT associations, it must be said that they are certainly doing their job of protecting the rights of sexual minorities, and that is important. If you ask about the reduction in their support, during this budgetary procedure, this issue has never come to the table, so that we begin to reduce the specific activities of some organisations. It is true that the budgetary procedure will continue for several weeks, and this government wants to do so very thoroughly and as far as possible to review these options in a row-by-line manner. As I said, the budgetary procedure is quite complicated, due to our possibilities. I certainly want to congratulate the Minister of Finance and the coalition partners; everyone takes this seriously. But as far as one particular NGO or foundation is concerned, no, we certainly have not made such decisions. I don't even know exactly. If their funding is still linked to calls for proposals through the Gambling Tax Council or something else, then there is no certainty, because there are annual contracts, there are project-based contracts. I understand that somehow you want to bring out a non-governmental organisation. There's no reason for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U107	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U108	We can still deal with the question of Jaak Juske. Please! This is Minister of Economy and Infrastructure for Taavi Asa.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Taavi Aas! My question is driven by one of the concerns of the residents of Tallinn. The large Kopli freight station, which is largely closed territory, is located in the middle of Tallinn at the beginning of the last century, about as large as, by the way, three quarters of Tallinn's Old Town. For a very long time, local communities, especially the People of Pelgulinna and Kalamaja, have dreamed of moving this freight station out of there and wondered what would be in the future. I recall that while you were still in the honorable office of the mayor of Tallinn, your city government was already thinking about what could be built there in the future. Last week I came across a completely reliable media source that you, as minister, are going to electrify our train traffic, which is a very nice development. One part of this news was that these investments also concern Kopli's freight station. Hence my question: exactly what work is planned to be done at Kopli's freight station in the context of this large investment, and do these work mean that Kopli's freight station will remain a closed area in the middle of the city for decades to come?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U110	Thank you, good questioner! It is a great pleasure to meet again and continue discussions on Tallinn. I'm going to go over that Kopli freight station place in that electrification table. I am certainly not of the opinion that this should be one of the priority items in this table. It is true, because in North Tallinn Kopli there are companies that carry freight by rail, we have a duty to keep this railway running. But when designing the Rail Baltic route corridor, the starting point is that these viaducts and bridges, which are designed, are made with such a bridge opening that it will be possible to carry out one more rail set in the future, i.e. allow freight bypass from Tallinn. This is the second reason that trade flows through Tallinn go to Paldiski. At the moment, there is virtually no alternative. When this route will be completed, it will be too early to answer today. I think it's the right thing to leave this opportunity. Unfortunately, the trains that maneuver through Tallinn are one day. In view of today's trade flows and this one train per day, it is unlikely to be economically appropriate to make an investment of about 100 million in the construction of this ring railway. But once again, to think so much ahead and leave this opportunity for the future is, in my opinion, only right, because if we do not leave this opportunity today, then this circular railroad will probably never happen. Secondly, after Rail Baltic has been completed, or even after this process has gone further, it should be considered whether it would be reasonable to make Paldiskin a railway of European width at all, and if only one train travels a day on a Russian-wide railway, then it would be possible to tranship these goods to a railway of European width, for example, in the port of Maardu. Because once again, if one train leaves a day, an investment of 100 million is probably a little too expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U111	Thank you. We may have time for another point to be clarified. Please, Jaak Juske!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U112	Thank you. Honourable Taavi Aas! I thank you for your answer, and I really hope that you will review the possible investments in developing Kopli's freight station, whether they are really justified. At the same time, your answer was that it seems that the townspeople will have to suffer for decades to come because a very large area in the middle of the city is excluded from the development of the city. Or do you dare today to say the year or the date when Kopli's freight station will start moving out of Tallinn's city centre? The local people expect a specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U113	Thank you. Once again: as long as there are companies in need of rail freight flows, we are also obliged to keep this railway running for so long. I can make it clear how much need there is for such a large freight station in that territory. Once again, the railroad we have to keep. If there are companies carrying goods by rail, this railway is necessary. Of course, it's a big square, and those dozens and dozens of pairs of rails down there. There is probably no need for this today. Rather, it depends on how Northern Tallinn develops, how Tallinn's seaside develops as a whole. I think you know as well as I do that the owners of these port territories in northern Tallinn actually have other thoughts, they have a plan not to have a cargo port there, but to bring life there and build apartment buildings. I think that rather this process comes to the point that at some point there is no need for such a railway. I very much hope that in the second half of 2020 Rail Baltic will be ready, and then we can essentially talk about whether there is a more sensible Russian-wide route in the Paldiski direction, or whether it should be already a European-wide route, which would also mean that those transit journeys that pass through Tallinn will move to this European-wide route. I am speculating now, but I think that the end of 2020 will be the time when freight trains will no longer pass through Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U114	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you very much for your constructive questions and also thank the members of the government for their good answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U115	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 1st working week. There is an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. There are no requests for referrals of drafts or enquiries. Let's move on to the messages. Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up a support group for the village movement, convener Merry Aart. Checking for presence. 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U116	Today we have one item on the agenda: Second reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on air traffic between and outside their territories. I will briefly present the procedure. First there is a presentation, then every member of the Riigikogu can ask two questions and all members of the Riigikogu can participate in the round of negotiations. The second reading shall end with the final vote. So, let's get to the agenda. Yeah, in Taavi Cloth, was there a procedural question? No, it wasn't. So let's get to the agenda. Second reading of the draft Act 27 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on air traffic between and outside their territories. I would like to ask Mr Rimmel, member of the Economic Commission, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U117	Good meeting manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates between the territories of these countries and beyond on 27 May this year. The draft ratifys the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on air traffic between and outside their territories. The agreement will create an air service facility between two countries, including mutual access to airlines, a level playing field for operators and non-discrimination in the light of the principles laid down in the Treaties on European Union. Until now, there was no legal basis for bilateral regular air traffic between Estonia and the United Arab Emirates. The first reading of the draft 27 took place on 12 June. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees did not submit amendments by the deadline for submitting amendments, 27 June at 4 p.m. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft on two occasions: 4 June and 9 September. At the meeting of the Commission on 4 June, Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, presented the draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs did not propose any amendments to the draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs proposed that the draft be sent to second reading by 11 September when the first reading is closed. The decision was consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U118	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! As I understand it, if this agreement is ratified, it will be possible to create air traffic between Estonia and the United Arab Emirates, so-called direct traffic. At the same time as the current government, aviation has been the source of rather bad news, especially with regard to our national airlines. But my question is very simple. What is your information? There are seven emirates known to exist in Arabia. Which one of these seven emirates will this air traffic be built into?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U120	Contracts for air services have not been signed with the airline at the moment, so this will be further specified. Unfortunately, this was not mentioned in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U121	Thank you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U122	Thank you. Good waitress! You mentioned the routes that are under negotiation. Maybe you could tell me who or what these airlines are.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U123	Dubai Airlines.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-11_U124	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm sorry, Javi... No, it's not. There is now an opportunity for members of the Riigikogu to speak for negotiation. There are no negotiating requests. As no amendments have been tabled to the draft, we will go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on air traffic between and outside their territories (27 SE). Please take a stand and vote. 82 members voted in favour of the draft, with no votes against or abstentions. The law has been passed! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 2.09 p.m.
