ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome you to us at the beginning of the last week of this year's plenary session. We will begin the Monday session of the 11th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now you all have the opportunity to hand over drafts and inquiries. They don't seem to be in the hall, but they're from the government. Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law on the ratification of the treaty between the Republic of Estonia and Guernsey on the avoidance of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion and fraud. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when this bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. And secondly, the draft law amending the Commercial Code. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U3	On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and the Management Board decides on their future procedure in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Now we're going to do a presence check. 92 members of the Riigikogu are present, there is no 9. Let's go to the agenda this week. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 11th working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 91 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U4	Today's only item is the third reading of the Tartu University Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act. A little quiet, please. In the case of the third reading, representatives of the political groups will be able to give a speech from the remote control for 5 + 3 minutes. I'm opening negotiations. Please! There seems to be no wish to speak or speak. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 98 on the draft. I vote on the Tartu University Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the draft law amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act 98. Please take a stand and vote. There are 91 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the Riigikogu and there are no respondents or impartial parties. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U5	Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, who have plenty of time and time to listen. I can wait as long as you finish your story. I wasn't planning on coming here, but what I heard today on the Committee on Rural Affairs as a guest leaves no other choice. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, there was talk of listeria again. You could say that at times you're gonna get a vomit reflex when you hear that word. But in the interest of the truth, you should say a few words. Once again, the Food and Veterinary Office, this time the Health Board, clear long stories, pictures, etc., but I didn't really know anything. Imagine if you race at a speed of 150 kilometers an hour and the police pull you over. And then, when you're already scared, the police will take out the order of the director-general of the PBA, for example, no 31, but they'll say that before you get a ticket, we'll split the speed in half: you'll have 75 kilometers an hour. And you're safe. You could have even added more than 100 kilometers an hour, or what you have to do is speed it up even faster. The Director-General of the Food and Veterinary Office, Halliste, has carried out such an order on 20 February of last year. This is not about speed, but it is about the content of the various chemicals in the food you eat, and especially about the amount of food you receive from abroad. You eat broccoli, eat beans, eat apples, etc. As the National Audit Office disclosed its report to us here before Midsummer Day, it is not known what the total impact of all of this will be. In short, we don't have a good view of what we're eating in. We control pure domestic food above all, but in the case of Polish apples, strawberries, Dutch broccoli, etc. imported from outside, we look at individual samples. In the same way, in the autumn, the Minister's office, as well as the chancellor's office and the listerial scandal, has now been particularly eager to explode. A few weeks ago, the Food and Veterinary Office had taken 245 samples of listeries, but 229 of them from two M.V.Wool factories. This means that the rest of the 100 companies on the market have been taken out in a round of 20 samples? Today I hear there's some kind of killer bacteria sitting in the Wool factory where he's been born and scaring around here. As a result, Estonia's largest and most important fish processing plant had to be shut down, 125 people had to be sent on holiday before Christmas, and, you know, maybe actually retired. Everyone's calm, Christmas is approaching, nobody's business is. Now the question is that closing the plant or closing the plants is an extreme step in European terms, which is at issue during an epidemic. In 2019, the end of which is approaching... How about a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U7	I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U8	... not in Estonia with strain ST...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U9	Unfortunately, there is no extension.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U10	... 1247 cases, no one's dead. But the factories were shut down. At the same time, the second strain, ST87, has already killed three people and several dozen have fallen ill, but the vet department has not even talked about it. I happen to be the first person to tell you that this is the strain. I don't know if I can talk about it. I think the Broadcasting Council could talk about it. It's the same thing that 17 out of 18. On 31 December the cleaning was carried out at the factory, on 23 December a sample was taken, and the day after the failure of the rural minister Järvik's mistrust at exactly the time when the Vet Office Director-General entered the Ministry of Rural Affairs' office, the state television and radio began as the first news every half hour that a child of listeria bacteria was discovered. Of course, 100 units down a lot, less than ten. It was spun to the "Actual Camera" for the first time. Who are we kidding? Is there really some kind of vet that can fool the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U11	Mr. Ernits! I would be happy to let you speak further, but unfortunately, our law on home and working arrangements does not allow this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U12	Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, for interfering with your peaceful existence and your lunchtime! But the problem is big. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-09_U13	The problem is really big, totally the same, Mr. Ernits. Any more calls? No, it's not. Thank you. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.14 p.m.
