ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 3rd week session of the first plenary session on Wednesday. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? I don't think so. In that case, I'll read you a few messages. Today, after the plenary session, the following parliamentary groups will be held in this Chamber: Estonia-Poland, convener Aadu Must; Estonia-Malta, convener Toomas Kivimägi; Estonia-Norway, convener Toomas Kivimägi. The founding meeting of the Estonian-Taiwan Support Group will also take place today after the plenary session, which will be convened by Kalle Laanet. Incoming check, please! There are 94 people present and there are no 7.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U2	Honourable Riigikogu! By decision No 443 of 16 April, the President of the Republic appointed Jüri Ratas as Prime Minister candidate and instructed him to form the Government of the Republic. According to § 89 of the Constitution, the prime minister candidate will present a report to the Riigikogu on the foundations of the future government. The Prime Minister's candidate has expressed his wish to make a presentation to the Riigikogu at today's session. On the basis of § 56 (1) (1) (1) and (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, I have added to the agenda of today's sitting to the Prime Minister candidate appointed by the President of the Republic, Jüri Ratas, in order to establish the Government of the Republic by deciding on the granting of powers. I will explain to you the procedure for handling this point. First, Jüri Ratas is a report on the foundations of government formation, which lasts up to 30 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may then submit up to two questions to the candidate Prime Minister. There will be no negotiations and a final vote will be taken after the questions have been answered. Prime minister candidate Jüri Ratas, please! A procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U3	Thank you. There has been such an interesting contradiction that the Prime Minister candidate Kaja Kallas received up to 25 minutes of speaking time, the next prime minister candidate for up to 30 minutes. Why? Is there a rule about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U4	It's as you wish. The Prime Minister's candidate may ask for additional time. Okay, no more questions. Please, Prime candidate Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, good colleagues! Happy people of Estonia! On December 31, 1993, President Lennart Meri, as he himself called it, said at the end of our first constitutional year, that Estonia was the most beautiful of all. At that difficult time, when knowledge of one other Estonia was still fresh, there was a great deal of generosity and ambition in these words. I sincerely believe that much of our success so far is based on the fact that we have been able to be positive and smile at the right moments. Our Constitution says that the Republic of Estonia is founded on freedom, justice and justice, so that our people and culture can last. We all despise this freedom with our work and our activities every day. Justice, in turn, is when each of us feels that it is important that he is kept and valuable. Justice is our Constitution, in which the fundamental principles of the state cannot be applied selectively. By submitting conditions to some of these values, we are weakening all of them. I had the honour of listening to the President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid, in this Chamber of the Honourable Riigikogu two weeks ago, who encouraged us to think about what was happening in society during the opening session of the XIV composition: 'Estonian democracy works. However, perhaps we should think about why it is that a month after the elections, a large number of people feel that something has been broken in our society. It's as if some agreed boundaries no longer apply. And it is not a question of world-view views, but often of courtesy and respect. Respect for one another and for all our people. ' I'd think further from here. On 20 August 1991 69 members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia voted in favour of restoring Estonia's national independence in this very hall. The contributions of the country's wives and statesmen at that time have enabled us to build our country at our best. Since then, all members of the Riigikogu, all our ministers and governments and all our political parties have wanted to build the best possible Estonia for all of us. Differences have only stood in concrete decisions and visions on how to reach this best country. We have done well to restore independence in Estonia. We have felt it ourselves, seen the constant development of our daily lives and acknowledged our country's transformation into a European welfare society. All of this has also emerged from international rankings and indices. At the same time, there have been many people living among us all this time who think that something has always been broken in society. Some people found it difficult to switch to a market economy society or to a property reform. Many saw a growing gap between their incomes and their prices. Jobs were lost in the countryside, and urban stratification increased. We have not always been able to help the most vulnerable in our society: children, the elderly, people with disabilities and many others. We have also come to an understanding, honestly looking in the mirror, that integration has not been fully successful and that people with Estonian and other native languages often feel that they are strangers to each other. Similarly, we know that the differences between our incomes for women and men are the greatest in Europe. We often fail to understand the life - styles of people who live among us and their thoughts and actions. We are still witnessing conflicts between those who advocate innovation and self-sufficiency. Many different values are represented in our society, but they should not be in conflict with each other. Our people should not be in conflict with each other. We must rely on what unites all of us, not on differences. For decades, painful divisions have arisen despite all our efforts and best intentions. We didn't create them on purpose. These discrepancies are certainly not just Estonia's concern, but we see it with our friends in Europe and the world. All the more reason for me to have the sympathetic experience I have had at the table of the European Council for more than two years. Countries always have different views and interests, but at the same time there is always knowledge of all common applications. Large countries could use their power positions, but instead they are looking for a common part. Instead of demands and ultimatums, compromises are always sought at the table. This is something that we should also have more in mind in national internal policies. The responsibility and responsibility of all of us in this Chamber and elsewhere is to ensure that all our people are united and that our differences are reconciled. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Estonian Central Party, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Fatherland Party have agreed to jointly assume the responsibility of government, based on the interests of the Estonian state and people. During the negotiations of the three parties, we discussed many of the key issues of life in Estonia and their possible solutions. I congratulate our partners, who were interested in compromises during the talks and focused on finding solutions. We wanted and were able to find common ground on even the most difficult issues. As a result, 15 chapters produced a concise document whose central axis is the desire to preserve and develop Estonia so that it lasts forever for our descendants. The three political parties and I set out important principles in the field of social and health care, education, research and development, foreign and security policy, internal security and the business environment. Cultural, environmental and energy policies, e-state development, public governance and civil society, transport and infrastructure have also been highlighted. We will continue to stand for a united and strong state with a growing population and support local life in Tallinn and Tartu, both in Kärdla and Kanep, in Rakvere and Ruhnu. In doing so, we will pay more attention to those who also need more help. All of this serves our most important and constitutional task, which is to ensure the survival of the Estonian people and of independent and protected Estonia. Together, with the support of society as a whole, we want to build a family-friendly Estonia whose society is united, whose economy is successful and knowledge-based, effectively managed and free and protected. These are the five main priorities of the government union we are creating. Free and protected Estonia includes the main positions of the first three parties agreed on in foreign and security policy. Estonia will continue firmly on the current course of foreign and security policy, the important part of which is our membership of the European Union and NATO. We are based on the interests of the Estonian state, national sovereignty and international law in foreign and security policy, following international agreements and the principles of the United Nations. We support a strong and united European Union while continuing the necessary preparations for Brexit. We consider it important to maintain and develop close relations with Britain, which has been an important ally of Estonia throughout history. We also stand for guaranteeing the rights of our citizens and businesses after Britain's probable departure from the European Union. We will, of course, continue to develop our own defence capabilities and keep defence expenditure at least 2% of GDP. The military service, officers and sub-officers, the reserve army, the strong Defence League, as well as continuous exercises, the presence of the allies and the principles of broad-based national defence will continue to be important to us in national defence. All of this has served our Estonia well so far and will certainly continue to serve in the future. Thanks to our allies, Estonia can be more safe and confident than can be expected from our size. The government union that is being created considers the development of strong transatlantic relations and international cooperation to be important. One good example of this is the UN Security Council's ad hoc membership campaign, which President Kersti Kaljulaid has committed himself to. Estonia has thus made new friends around the world and has gained a great deal of fame in both the Atlantic and the Pacific. In addition to national defence, we provide people with the necessary security when developing the area of internal security. The clear desire of all three parties is to contribute to increasing the security of our people. This means the necessary wage increases, but also, for example, the granting of additional rights to local government law enforcement units and a wide range of prevention activities. The preservation of our Estonia, the development of our Estonia and the protection of our Estonia are the work that all our governments have done over the years, and all our parliamentary parties have stood firmly behind these principles. At this point, I also sincerely congratulate the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party, who have stood up for and developed our common foreign and defence policy values over long years. A cohesive society, in turn, means that we are a democratic rule of law that guarantees essential values, human rights, freedom of expression and personal freedoms. We must respect all people living in Estonia, their views and opinions, and everyone must have the opportunity to exercise themselves. At the beginning of the negotiations, we stressed with our partners that we are promoting a coherent, tolerant and secure society, where there is no place for the manifestations of hatred between nations, anti-Semitism or the rhetoric that divides society. Estonia's life is progressing much more strongly, based on kind words and benevolent sentences, not with sharp slogans and scab remarks. We must all make an effort in our political action to mitigate the fears of our people and to reassure society. We prove that we stand for the whole development of Estonia and the well-being of every person. In so doing, we also work every day for all those who do not yet support the government that is being created. The Prime Minister is the Prime Minister for all the people of Estonia, not only those who support him and have voted for him in the elections. The whole government must also work for the best future for all of our people. For me, there is not and will not be us and your Estonia, there is only one Estonia for all of us. We must undoubtedly smooth out the widening divisions between the communities here: between the wealthiest and the poorest; between rural areas and cities; between the liberal and conservative people with a view to the world. Coherence of society also means a more balanced and coherent regional development. The government must see our local authorities as, above all, good partners and co-workers, with whom the life and development of rural areas must be supported. This is why we will continue to move state-paid jobs from Tallinn to the counties. Coherence also means a smaller gap between wealthier and low-paid people, solidarity and health care systems and social policies that take into account the needs and opportunities of each person. Unfortunately, we know that a large proportion of the elderly in Estonia live in poverty. It is our role and responsibility to bring parents and grandparents of our dignified age out of this poverty. We must thank all generations for their life's work and contribution and offer the elderly a dignified old age and a decent life. A family-friendly Estonia is a country where our people want to contribute to the future of all of us together and create their own family right here. I am pleased that raising child and family allowances and making parental leave more flexible have given many Estonian families more confidence in having children in recent years, including the birth of third children. This is the right path to continue in any case. All people who have found more opportunities beyond their home country are always welcome back to this Estonia. Home and outside Estonians. Young people who have completed education in a wide world. Working people who have found better service elsewhere in the meantime. Older people who wish to return to their country. They all have experience and valuable knowledge that will make our Estonia stronger. They're all our people we're waiting for home. We are undoubtedly delighted that Estonia's balance of migration has been positive in recent years. The number of Estonian residents has increased by more than 8 000 people in total over the last two years. To this end, we support an increase in the well-being and security of our society, ensure the availability of public services, reduce the number of treatments and reduce social inequalities. Continue to contribute to the fight against domestic violence, which is one of the most painful concerns in our society. There must be a zero tolerance on this issue. I consider it important that we work more with our communities both at home and abroad. The creation of the post of Minister of Population and the launch of the Global Estonia programme are only the first steps. Appreciation of our people and the experiences of the returning Estonians make our Estonia better, making our Estonia stronger. Estonia, with a knowledge-based and successful economy, is a country that contributes to an economy that supports research and development and innovation. We must make an effort to increase public funding to 1% of gross domestic product in this respect and to keep at least the same level in the future. This is strategically crucial for the well-being of Estonian people and the sustainability of society. We must ensure that our growth is inclusive, competitive and sustainable. When drawing up the state budget, we need to ensure sound and responsible monetary policy. We need to contribute more to retraining and other measures to ensure that our people are competitive on the labour market and that quality labour is guaranteed. The government must support our operating companies. Estonia is certainly no longer a country with cheap labour, so we need to focus on the other advantages that we can have compared to the Nordic countries and the neighbouring region. One solution is certainly competitive energy prices, which the state can influence by, for example, creating differences for energy-intensive production. The principles of sustainable development must not be forgotten when developing the economy and entrepreneurship. I am delighted that, like the rest of the world, our children and young people are showing increasing awareness of climate change and the environment at all. This means that we have been able to pass on a meaningful value system to new generations in our homes and at school. Young people perceive the impact of their personal behavior on global processes and are prepared to take responsibility for the future of all of us. I consider it very important to provide our own companies with even greater support for establishing contacts abroad and entering new markets. We can support our export opportunities by increasing the number of economic diplomats and advisers in the markets that are important to us. Our e-governance is often associated with Estonia abroad. Building a digital society has made our lives considerably easier and more comfortable. It is very important to contribute to improving services and raising them to a new level in keeping this card. It is also necessary to move forward with the e-residency 2.0 programme and the very fast internet connection. It is undoubtedly very important for the government to take advantage of the experience and knowledge that we have in sectoral professional associations. As Prime Minister, I had the honour of re-launching trilogue meetings with the Estonian Trade Union Confederation and the Estonian Employers' Confederation. I consider it very important that such broad-based discussions on labour market issues continue. Let us also think more boldly about the development of infrastructure. We are considering borrowing for state infrastructure investments. In this respect, it is important that smaller roads and gravel roads are not left without the necessary funding for the development of the main roads. We must contribute to a high-quality road network throughout Estonia. Estonia, which is effectively governed, means that the voice of our people affects the rule of the state, also during the inter-election period. It also means that the country is effective and the instruments at our disposal have been used well and responsibly. As an important principle, we take much more account of the views of the Estonian people in various areas of state life when making decisions and strengthen direct democracy. The government sees experts, business and civil society associations and political forces represented in Estonia as constructive and equal partners. We will certainly continue to develop the zero bureaucracy project, which will make it easier for our people and businesses to communicate with the state and reduce the time and work they take. I consider it very important that the country's development strategy 'Estonia 2035', which summarises other national strategy papers and gives a coherent direction to policy-makers and decision-makers in different areas, should be done. As a result of the work, a value-based agreement will be created on how to ensure a balanced development of our natural, social and economic environment. The role of the state is to create opportunities for the people of Estonia to contribute to increasing the common good of all of us. We will also make state reform one of the political priorities over the next four years. We want to move forward in this area by reducing unnecessary bureaucracy and the volume of the public sector. We set the content and deadlines of the stages of state reform in the government's action plan and we hope that the Riigikogu will take the appropriate decisions. At this point, I expect reflection and cooperation from all parliamentary parties, the private sector and civil society. We also support the Riigikogu's greater role in organising state life, one of which is the creation of problem committees agreed in the coalition agreement for the development of Estonian language learning and the resolution of the population crisis. In addition, we conduct a broad-based revision of the state budget, during which we review all the sources of revenue and expenditure of the state and assess their purpose. Members of the Riigikogu! In its day-to-day work, the government relies very much on our good officials and a great many other specialists working for the country. They all do their job with a great sense of mission and heart, and the country can rely on them. Of course, a large number of NGOs play an important role, whose work and often voluntary contributions are also aimed at improving the development of our society and the well-being of everyone. Our common value is created by the entrepreneurs operating here in Estonia, of whom the responsibility for the well-being of the entire society clearly stands out alongside the personal success of many activities. Of course, I also recognise our press, which is committed, free and responsible by all its characteristics. I sincerely thank all the people of Estonia for their daily work and contributions. The sum of all our activities is far greater than the sum of the simple additions of these parts. Our Estonia is a smiling Estonia. Good ambassadors! I worked in the Riigikogu for almost ten years, a day of which my party did not belong to the government. I therefore well understand what it means to contribute to the opposition. I know what disagreements with the coalition can be like. I would like to be the kind of partner in my work as Prime Minister to you that I would like to see myself as a solution-oriented opposition ambassador. I am always prepared to exchange ideas with you and to cooperate outside parliamentary work formats, directly in contact with you. Good Mart and Estonian Conservative People's Party and Good Helir and Isamaa Party! Dear members of the House Party Centre Party! Thank you very much for the last six weeks! I am sure that there will be a strong spirit of cooperation in the government that we have created together and that we will take Estonia's entire life forward. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I thank you and ask for your support. Good luck to our dear Estonia! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U6	Thank you, honourable members of the Riigikogu. Any questions for prime minister candidate Jüri Ratas? Apparently, there's a lot of them. The first question is Jüri Jaanson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U7	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! I'll get right to the point. You've been in office as Prime Minister for the last two and a half years. In fact, you changed the income tax system, which means that working pensioners will have to pay additional income tax on their pensions. This is unfair treatment for working pensioners. You also promised during the previous coalition, but now also on the electoral platform of the Central Party, that you would lose additional income tax on pensions. That's just a promise so far. Now, I'm going to look into what your plans are for income taxing your pensions during your new term of office. I couldn't find out about the coalition agreement. Explain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U8	Thank you, dear Jüri Jaanson. Thank you for this question. I also said in my speech that I really consider it important that our dignified parents and grandparents can be brought out of poverty. You mentioned the electoral platform of the Centre Party on your question. It was true that there were two main directions: one was an extraordinary increase in pensions in addition to indexation and the other was an increase in the tax-free rate from EUR 500 to EUR 250 to EUR 750. This first principle is certainly within the coalition agreement, and that is what I also said that the coalition supports an extraordinary pension increase. As we know, the spring forecast of the Ministry of Finance has come out in April, which also concerns the budgetary situation of the previous year. The prognosis shows that, given the basic law of our budget, as well as the international commitment in the European Union, the budget needs to be dealt with very seriously in May when a country's budgetary strategy is being implemented. We have not given up the extraordinary pension increase, but of course its implementation is linked to the possibilities of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U9	Raising the tax-free minimum rate has indeed been a priority for the previous government. I believe that now, as a long-term member of the Riigikogu, you will remember it well if I am probably not wrong to say that it was during the Reform Party's government on the subject of a purlet and jagulet, whether to raise the minimum rate of 5 euros or 10 euros, which would give people a few euros in net incomes each month. Indeed, the position of the previous coalition was that this rate should be raised vigorously to EUR 500, and, as we know, to a very large number of people earning low or average wages, it meant an increase of about EUR 60 every month. As far as working pensioners are concerned, no one in Estonia will be taxed differently. The income tax rate is the same for everyone. And it is true that there has been a significant wage increase over the last few years in sectors where people with a very high age are working - education and social affairs. In some sectors, wages have risen by 10 to 12%, in some sectors by up to 20%.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U10	Next, please, Jürgen Ligi. Sorry, Valdo Randpere was first, then Jürgen Ligi comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U11	What luck! Thank you. Good George! Listen, if you keep answering me like that, instead of answering a question, you're just gonna tell me your story, it's gonna feel more like smiling. But I have a question for you. Before the elections, you ruled out co-operation with the EKRE, and now you're with the EKRE setting up a government. I would like to clarify whether values such as anti-Semitism, racism, threats to certain social groups depending on their orientation, beliefs, profession are still acceptable to you today. And if they are, is it really the kind of person who shares such values, still fit to be Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U12	Thank you, good Valdo, for your question. The question is always whether we want to listen or not. I don't know where you're gonna take the principles you gave me on your question. Yes, I said that when it comes to the values that were reflected in a lot of the EKRE statements, I cannot cooperate with them. If you say now that the new government supports these principles, I don't even want to say the words that sounded on your question, then I don't know if you've wanted to read the coalition agreement or what. However, I suggest you read our coalition agreement, which says very clearly that we do not tolerate, we do not support hatred between nations, we do not support anti-Semitism, etc. I think it should be based on what's in the coalition agreement. And true, the values in the coalition agreement are important to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U13	The next question is the question of the member of the Riigikogu, Jürgen Ligil.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U14	Thank you. Mr. Ratas, you cannot deny that your smile is kind, but it has cost society dearly. Despite the good times, the budget has been nominally negative for several years and the cumulative structural minus is a billion. To make sure that happens, the first thing you did was relax the budget rules for yourself. Please tell me if you will start now, too, this time, that you will loosen the budget rules. Or are you going to make amends?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U15	Thank you for your question. I consider the state of public finances and fiscal policy to be very important. When I answered Mr Jaanson's question, I said that the budgetary figures for last year came up at the beginning of April this year. I certainly consider it important that, if, in certain areas, for example, the payment of pensions, such as parental benefits, such as making certain investments, is an excess cost, which has increased the deficit in the 2018 budget, then of course it must be improved immediately. If this need emerges before discussing the country's budgetary strategy in 2019, it is absolutely necessary to do so. And I think it's a necessity. Now the question is what will happen to this year's budget. With regard to this year's budget, the position of the Ministry of Finance is, in my opinion, that the necessary improvements can also be made in the autumn by drawing up an additional budget. So I think it's important. If you're asking me if we're going to loosen the country's fiscal policy somehow, I know where you're reading it. That assumption is wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U16	Does Jürgen Ligi have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U17	Mr President! Please tell me if the Prime Minister has to answer questions or if he can talk about anything. I asked if he would start his new term by relaxing the budget rules. It was a very specific question, I ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U18	Just as you, a honourable member of the Riigikogu, have the right to ask the candidate Prime Minister according to your wishes, Mr Jüri Ratas, the candidate for the Prime Minister, has the right to reply to you as he considers best and correct. [[Someone's clapping.]] Now, please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U19	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! You have repeatedly confirmed that the members of the coalition that will be created have already agreed on the opening day of the coalition consultations that it will stand for a coherent, tolerant society when it comes to the creation of a government. A beautiful goal, each Prime Minister is likely to have had such a goal. At the same time, we have heard that those to whom these consultations are not suitable have been advised to move to Canada, women's doctors have repeatedly been called murderers, the organizers of the 'Every Estonian Song' concert are a little crazy, the animal herd has participated in the concert, etc. And you have had to apologize, you have called such speeches inappropriate, but today you thank them. How do you feel if your coalition partner, EKRE, has already broken your very first agreement today...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U20	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U21	...or can such statements create a coherent society?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U22	In the framework of this coalition agreement, agreed by the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Fatherland Party and the Centre Party, Estonia can really be built in a coherent and cohesive way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U23	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U24	Thank you. My question relates to Liina Kersna's question. Why do you indulge a political party with a radical attitude, who does not choose the means, whose words in the customary language of leading politicians are 'immigration rooster' and 'tibla', who promises to make judges roll their heads and who, as Liina said, women's doctors call murderers? Really, this language is everyday.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U25	Thank you, Mrs Heljo Pikhof. Those thoughts or the words you used, you won't find in the coalition agreement. Point one. Point two: I understand that, as an experienced and skilled politician, it is very convenient for you to point out what one or the other politician has said in his speeches or written down. But I don't think we're gonna get very far by pointing that finger. After all, my answer could be the same, I could refer to what one or another representative of one party or a third-fourth politician from another party has said. I don't think that's gonna take us much further. We may be able to achieve a debate here in this hall, which satisfies the questioner, whoops, where I just got laid! But I don't think it's going to go any further. I am asking here today for your support for the coalition to be created, the principles which I presented to you in my speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U26	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U27	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! One of the tasks of the Head of Government is to instill confidence in people that sustainable and smart solutions will be found for the advancement of Estonian life. How do you inspire confidence for those young people who started raising money in the second pillar of the pension, so many of them compulsory? The pre-election and still ongoing political turmoil on the second pillar has raised more questions than answers. And at the same time, the older generation has been deprived of the extraordinary rise in pension, which you have already talked about during the previous period of government, and now also before the elections during the campaign. Doesn't it seem to you that in this way you are a little bit encouraging tension between generations?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U28	Thank you. First of all, the other pension pillar. It will certainly not be lost by the coalition that is to be hoped for, and it has not been agreed anywhere. If the younger generation wishes to join the second pension pillar, it can do so today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a year and in two years' time and under the same conditions as today. True, the coalition has said that the productivity of the second pension pillar should be higher, and it has also said that we want to develop a draft law to make it voluntary. But we certainly will not lose the second pension pillar. Now, it is convenient to refer to the issue of extraordinary pension increases and ask where it is and when it will come. It continues to be the principle of the Centre Party, but also of the government union that, if there are financial opportunities, an extraordinary pension increase will come. If we look at the size of pensions and compare it with relative poverty, unfortunately, we must say that the poverty threshold is higher than the average old-age pension. It's a hundred euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U29	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, You like to show yourself as a founder of justice in Estonia. You became Prime Minister in 2016. According to Statistics Estonia, 22.6% of the Estonian population lived in relative poverty in 2017, which was 1.6% more than in the previous year. In absolute poverty, 3.4% of the population, or 44000 people, lived, which was 0.2% more than last year. At the same time, the number of people aged 65 and over living in relative poverty has increased by as much as 6.3%. Do you agree with me that you have deceived these people? What do you have to say to the thousands of older people who, under the influence of your government's economic policy, have fallen into poverty? There are thousands of them in one year alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U31	Dear Annely Akkermann! Dear Annely, first welcome back to the Riigikogu! I'll send you warm greetings to Kihnu Island! I saw how diligently you read your question, and surely a credit to those who helped you to write that question down. The Group of the Reform Party in XIII also fell into the same trap. There is one big problem in this question: you compare the wrong ones for years. The income tax-free minimum started in 2018 and you are talking about previous years. You have to fix the basis for comparison, and then you'll see that these numbers are more positive. I wish you the strength to do so!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U32	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I had a spiteful question when I listened to you: do I have to believe you if you claim that the Estonian state is well-developed, or do I have to believe in a very large society, also belonging to your party, who has claimed that in 17 years, when the Reform Party was in government, nothing has been done? But I don't want an answer to that question. Instead, I ask that I read the electoral platform of the Centre Party, which clearly states: we will launch a national programme to ensure that everyone in need of care has a place to live in, if necessary by supporting payment by the state for care home services. But surprise-surprise: I'm gonna untie the coalition agreement and see that there's not a word about nursing homes. All this talk of supporting people in need and old people is quite general. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U34	Thank you. My experience here in the Riigikogu is really not as long as your experience and I do not know if there have been any spiteful questions. The questions of the Reform Party are always substantive, balanced, and wish to move Estonia forward. You said you didn't want an answer to your first question, but I still want to mark it. According to you, the leading politicians of the Central Party have said that the Reform Party has not taken Estonia's life forward in 17 years. Well, I wouldn't be so critical. I also said in my speech that, for example, in the field of defence policy, I congratulate both the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party. I cannot say whether the criticisms made by the leaders of the Centre Party Group in previous formations have always been true. But now to your key question. Of course, this is an important theme-setting of the problems of nursing homes and informal care. The priority of this coalition is certainly to reduce people's own participation in order to provide more opportunities for home care and if it no longer helps or is not possible, then the person in need can be sent to a nursing home. I think it is also a question of dignity in 101-year-old Estonia: if a person has worked all his life, be it 40 or 44 years of age, but his pension enables him to stay in a nursing home, which in most cases is a forced choice, only 16 to 17 days a month. For the rest of the days, you need to think about whether your child or grandson or local government will help you pay the home allowance. I think this is a very acute problem in Estonian society. The same applies to informal care or home care. Family members who need to care for their loved ones must be able to take an active part in society. The solution is, I think, to a large extent, that we can support these families and the individual people who need these services.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U35	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U36	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good candidate for Prime Minister! You said before the elections that you would not cooperate with the EKRE on these values, and you repeated it in your own way today. You're standing here asking for the trust of the people's representatives. The values of the EKRE have not changed, yet you have decided to bring EKRE to power. What's your word? Why should we trust you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U37	Thank you. Once again, the values on the basis of which this coalition works are recorded in the coalition agreement. You're asking why the situation has turned out this way. It was the will of the highest power when he elected the XIV Riigikogu to win the Reform Party. There's no way to hide it, and it doesn't make any sense. In my opinion, the principle that the winning party is proposed to form the government first is reasonable. It is an unwritten rule that the winning party forms a government. Dear Yoko Alender, your party was able to form a government, and no one else would. It began to be formed by the Reform Party according to its own beliefs. However, this did not work. And, of course, why should the other four parliamentary parties have waited for what would happen? You can't do that in politics. Even Estonian laws do not allow this. At one point, a political initiative must be taken, and at one point the EKRE, the Fatherland, and the Centre Party took it. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U38	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U39	Thank you. Prime candidate Mr. Jüri Ratas! In February of this year, your current pinginary Kadri Simson promised at the election debate in Pärnumaa: 'As a minister, I know that it is possible to build all three main directions of the project, Tallinn, Tallinn, Narva and Tallinn as four lines. It's 300 kilometers short, and it'll all take four years. " Last week, the Director - General of the Road Administration announced that it would take at least 10 years at best. But most importantly, not the slightest support for your promise Kadri Samson received from your glorious coalition treaty. If we take the topic '2 + 2 highways', then the agreement only talks about purpose and analysis, not a word about construction. What or who will prevent Kadri Samson from fulfilling his promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U40	Thank you. This coalition agreement stands for what Kadri promised during this election debate in Pärnumaa. Thank you for congratulating him, and I also commend my benchmate, Kadri Samson. The aim is to build up proper connections in 2 + 2 directions Tallinn-Narva, Tallinn-Tartu, Tallinn-Pärnu. But compared to earlier times, there is one big difference that the last government did not do, and that is certainly not what the government that is creating today will do. It is true that we really need to look over land issues, design issues, for example, when we talk about section of Mäo to the south, towards Tartu. We cannot withdraw funding from other national routes. I would even say that we must not withdraw funding from gravel roads, which need blackberries, which very much expect it. After all, you know Pärnumaa well and know how many people there say that these and other gravel roads must be brought under the black cover, the road profile is wrong, the culprits don't work, etc. These issues need to be resolved. And the fact that we're putting all the funding on these 2+2 highways, we're going to make big headlines, but at the same time the roads close to home aren't being built, can't be allowed. Kadri Simson has only stood by the need to do both. I do not know how you feel, but I hope you will support the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of the last government. I also call on you to support the coalition that is to be created. It has been said a lot that this 1 + 1 + 1 is somehow cheaper, more sustainable. It does not seem to me that it increases road safety very much, especially during the winter. Try to push the snowfall out of the middle of the road: on one side there are constant boundaries, on the other side of the road. So we still have to build proper directions. This is also what our economic sector, the business sector, is keen to do. The priority is fast secure connections and, of course, road safety.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U41	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U42	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! You know in very detail the state of construction of four-line highways, and that is why my question is also a little connected to this. Namely, before 2016, our government allocated money from the state budget for Tallinna-Tartu highway and provided for its further construction in the state's budget strategy. You decided to take that money out of there and put the resources of the European Union's stability reserve in place. When you brought the state's budget strategy here to the Riigikogu at the end of last year, you actually knew that this 120 million cannot be used for the construction of the Tallinn highway of Tartu, although it is written in black white in the RES. Why were you bluffing in the country's budget strategy? And is that the reason that you no longer entrusted the Minister of Finance to the Fatherland party's portfolio? Because apparently the Minister of Finance wasn't in the house at certain moments. And let's also look at that dazzling hole in public finances...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U43	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U44	... it's gorgeous!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U45	Thank you, dear Kalle Palling. I figured if you were gonna ask about Via Baltica. Can't quite say we're from one generation, but more or less so, and I thought you'd come to the subject. I remember when I was a kid, people were talking about Via Baltica, and we're still talking about it. However, I understand why you brought up this road in Tallinn, which is no less important. After all, it connects our research centre with Tartu North Estonia. I think your party's really hooked up with this little hook now. At first, I thought you were talking about the time we were in the government together, that you were talking about the period from 2002 to 2003 or the period from 2005 to 2007. After all, the Reform Party and the Centre Party have been in government together. But you are talking about a position that was before November 2016. Exactly! And then it was exactly that the minister at the time took all the money off the gravel roads and other small highways and allocated it to the Tallinn-Tartu highway. This, of course, led to a huge conflict with local communities, local governments, which claimed that this could not be the case. And that's the difference I meant when I answered Mr. Kivimägi, explaining what Kadri Samson has done. He also focused on the roads that support local life the most. I believe that this is clear to you now, too. You have to do both, you can't go from one extreme to another.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U46	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U47	Thank you. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I'm a little embarrassed. How, then, am I supposed to judge when the paper and the action are divided? But in time, I'll shape the price. Now to the question. Various international studies such as s. As published in January 2008 by the International Valta Fund, the ageing population shows that there is no alternative to compulsory funded pension. You yourself have said on 4 October last year that making funded pensions voluntary would mean that our people should be prepared to accept lower pensions in the future. Why do you now want to make funded pensions voluntary and thus reduce future pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U48	Thank you. You said you were embarrassed. I always rely on the fact that the Riigikogu is the head of the government, and so is every member of the Riigikogu, even though we have separation of powers. But even as a outgoing prime minister, I don't want you to be embarrassed. And this problem has to be solved. I think you'll be guided by how you make your choices. You are free in your mandate. Listen to your conscience and judge by it. You were talking about the second pension pillar and what I said. But you realize it's not the Centre Party alone doing this coalition, we're doing it with three parties. Three political parties have found a compromise and, in my opinion, have concluded a very strong coalition agreement. I personally now say in my personal opinion that I do not wish to withdraw my second pillar money. At the same time, there are different opinions in society. I recall one of the Vice-Presidents of the European Commission saying that he will immediately take it out. So opinions are different, each person must look at what he has collected and take into account his needs in the long term. But I personally do keep collecting. If the almighty gives you life and health and I retire sometime, there's gonna be a little extra money. But, of course, if incomes are others, as are the people working in Brussels, then perhaps it is right to take it out immediately.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U49	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U50	Good candidate for Prime Minister! I have such a question of control over your government's nationalism. About six months ago, your coalition partner in this very hall demanded from you that more stringent security checks should be applied to Estonian citizens of Russian nationality than so-called Estonian blood to Estonian citizens, since they are generally more dangerous to the security of the state than other citizens. And then you said that you consider such a requirement to be contrary to the Constitution. Now the same demander is a candidate for your government's Minister for the Interior, and he also has security clearance. I would actually like such a practical answer rather than a political one. I expect what a political answer would be. If this practice is now being introduced, what will you do as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U51	Thank you. It's not going to be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U52	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U53	Mr. Prime Minister's candidate! Your working period will also be an important period for negotiating the new seven-year budget period of the European Union, including the common agricultural policy. At the same time, your coalition partner, EKRE, has been extremely sceptical about the issues of global warming, even denying it. The two ministers, who are very directly involved in this matter, are the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Rural Affairs. And the future Minister for Rural Affairs has actually supported the view that global warming is bullshit. At the same time, the environmental issue is undeniably one of the fundamental and most important issues in the agricultural policy negotiations. How can you keep the situation under control and ensure that ministers in the Council of the European Union can adequately represent Estonia's positions there and achieve reasonable results in the negotiations on the common agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U54	Thank you. I think that this concern is absolutely serious when we talk about agricultural policy when we talk about the common agricultural policy and that we need to be able to support our farmers more. How does it work? I guess that goes a lot, I think, of course, with the whole government, but especially with the cooperation of three members of the government. These are the Minister of Agriculture, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. You know this very well that it has also been one of the priorities of the outgoing government within the next MFF, that we want to support Estonian farmers more. Whether yesterday or the day before yesterday, Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm and his Baltic colleagues met with the Commissioner for the Commission to discuss this issue again and confirm that the Baltic countries are united and want to increase subsidies. Brexit is known to exert much more pressure on the EU budget as a whole in the next period. I personally hope that we can finally agree on this budget by the end of the previous period. In view of the elections to the European Parliament, the formation of a new Parliament and the Commission, this could remain for next year. This is the solution to how we can continue to work towards this goal. Surely this is a priority, it is also a priority for this coalition. As far as climate change is concerned, I think there is no doubt that Estonia wishes to continue to be an active party to the Paris climate agreement, to work towards really doing everything possible with human activity. This will require a very strong international cooperation so that we can keep the temperature rise at a maximum of 1.5 degrees. In the meantime, people were talking about 2 degrees, now they're talking about 1.5 degrees. This is certainly important and we must continue to work on it. I'm counting on your help here too, Mr. Ivari Padar. As I said in my speech, I believe that the government must cooperate with the members of the Riigikogu, and you certainly have a broad knowledge of the work both in the European Parliament and in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U55	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U56	Mr. Prime Minister's candidate! According to Article 9 of the National Defence Act, 'Management of the organisation of enhanced defence readiness and the resolution of martial law', this activity is also managed by the Prime Minister, but it has become the impression that during your more than two years of service you have not shown much interest in increasing the state's defence capabilities. This is in a situation where the Ministry of Defence reduced the Defence Forces in 2013 to 2 times the members of the Defence Forces and the Defence League: from 42000 to 25,000. And all the more than 60,000 unit-based reservists and nearly 80,000 different combat vehicles, I mean weapons in existence. I would also like to remind you that the Russian Federation increased its forces to 39000 in the Western military district adjacent to Estonia from 2015 onwards and restored the attack force at the operational level, the 1st Guard Panzer Army with 600 tanks. My question: as head of national defence, do you consider your current actions to be sufficient to ensure national security, and that will continue to be certain in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U57	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, General. Certainly your analytical expert view of the past, as well as the future, is very commendable and also necessary in this XIV membership. I thank you for considering this very important topic, which Estonia's defence capabilities represent, to be once again a matter of your heart from the first few weeks. So do I. If you do this vote here today, know that I promise you that I will give priority to strengthening Estonia's defence capabilities. You indicated 2013 - six years ago. I believe that even then we began to sense that air security and eFP are becoming a reality. That was also the reason why I also thanked today's opposition parties, in fact, we do not yet know exactly who is in the opposition here, who is in the coalition, but I thanked the Reform Party, which is currently in the opposition, and the Social Democratic Party, which is formally still in the coalition. I certainly do not consider this to be my favour, but we have also, with the outgoing government, very seriously wished to further develop our defence capabilities. Let's take the service of the army, we still want to bring more young people into the service. We had this limit, if I'm not mistaken, about 3,200 to 3,300, and we want to increase it to 4,000. To this end, the criteria of whether or not a person becomes a military service must be relaxed, and these criteria relate in particular to health issues. On the other hand, it is important that this development has taken place in the fields of eFP and air security. Estonia is a very active NATO Member State. I think that the contribution of our fighters outside Estonia is quite extraordinary for such a small country. Take, for example, Mali, where we participate with the French and Great Britain, various UN peace-building missions. And we always talk about financial aspects. On 23 November 2016, the outgoing government also prioritised extraordinary investments in our defence capabilities. You will remember this: EUR 20 million a year. This has also ensured that, in 2019, we will have the largest defence investments in history. I guess I'm not wrong, but the order of magnitude is 585 million, and that's over 2% of GDP. And true, this 2% is perhaps already a practice for us, but if we look at official data from the NATO headquarters in 2017, for example, there were only, if I am not mistaken, four countries that contributed 2%: the United States, Great Britain, Greece and Estonia. The Polish figure was one gram below 2%. So this is important and if this consideration is important in making today's decision, you can be sure that I will definitely support the development of defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U58	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U59	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! In your speech, you devoted a touching section to Estonian officials who, according to you, are doing their work with a heart and professionally. However, your coalition partner's candidate for finance has said something that officials do not know anything, their forecasts are wrong and we do not trust them. How do you intend to resolve this conflict of judgement in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U60	Well, with the help of working meetings, it's different, isn't it? You said that the future Minister of Finance has said that the forecasts are wrong. I don't think anyone's gonna say, even the authorities themselves aren't saying that if I make a forecast today, that's 100 percent right. I have heard the authorities also point out that this is only a prognosis. Whether this happens or not, the probability of a mistake is in there. In some cases the probability of error is higher, in some cases the probability of error is lower. That's why we're also calculating the coefficient of elasticity. It is difficult to make predictions, especially in this rapidly changing environment, I mean both the global and European environment. Estonia has an open economy and its impact on our export markets, sooner or later it will also be here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U61	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Good George! The weight of a member of the government's word is extraordinary, and you know that, of course, very well. For example, when my colleague Korb spoke with one speech on NATO, this meant a rapid end to his ministerial career, since his position on an important issue was different from the general values of the Estonian Government and foreign policy interests. The future members of the government of your new coalition have shown and still present positions that contradict the fundamental constitutional values of Estonia and undermine Estonia's international reputation. Some of these views have already been referred to here today, whether it concerns gender, nationality or other circumstances. The question is: can you confirm that you are as principled as you were in relation to Mikhail Korb, Minister of your party, in case of unacceptable statements by EKRE ministers? Will you release a minister from office if he has made statements that are not in accordance with the values set out in the Estonian Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U63	Thank you, Honourable Ossinovski. Good Evgeny! I want to comment a little on the first part of your question. Yes, it had to do with the public appearance of Mikhail Korb, then Minister of State Administration, in Läänemaa. And when this scandal arose, Mikhail Korb also made a statement that he supported Estonia's membership in NATO. True, in the meantime, four or five or six hours had passed, and he considered it right to assume responsibility so that the government could move on. And he did. I think it was a state-manly step. But I do not want this question to remain in the air to give the impression that Mikhail Korb is against NATO. He made the opposite statement, didn't he? Now, of course, the Prime Minister must be responsible for the government, and I am prepared to bear that responsibility. If, today, you are considering making your choice from this point of view, whether I, as Prime Minister, bear responsibility for all the other members of the government, I will, of course, and you can make your decision on me in peace.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U64	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U65	Thank you. Good candidate for Prime Minister! Sweet George! First of all, I would like to thank you for this fine speech. But now to the question. Climate change is one of the processes most affecting this century. These results will soon also affect Estonia. In your speech, you spoke about how schoolchildren should be taught to understand the effects of their behavior, but you completely failed to mention our greatest problem, the oil shale. Unfortunately, the environmental chapter of this government treaty is full of large footprints of oil shale worshipers. You've given your government an environmental portfolio to a party whose program alone lacked an environmental chapter altogether. My question is: what will your government do to get Estonia to a carbon neutral economy? What time do we come out of oil shale energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U66	Thank you. Reverend Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, dear Keit! We have perhaps made the environment and energy the most important in our coalition agreement. And that is why we have wanted and wished it to be the last. It's like a dot on an i, and without that dot, there was no way to make a coalition agreement. This is chapter 15, entitled 'Environment and Energy'. I will only bring out a few principles to answer your question. These are the following. We will increase the share of renewable energy in both the production of electricity and heat and the consumption of transport fuels. We attach importance to efficient cogeneration of heat and power. A little below is the following line: we reduce the dependence of electricity production on oil shale and we rely on international agreements and environmental standards in the use of oil shale. So I'm sure it's a principle, you don't have to worry about it. And our principle in this government coalition is to listen to external experts, listen to our own scientists, listen to an apology for what I say! just one of our alma mater, Tallinn University of Technology, so that we can produce products of even greater value by deserving oil shale. That is, of course, our aim. Today we see it in oil production, you know what will be the next five, ten or fifteen years. But to reduce the proportion of oil shale is the right way to go, and it certainly has to be fought for. The truth is, however, that no Estonian government has so far set a deadline for the so-called Põxit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U67	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U68	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, Jüri! In your reply to Toomas Kivimägi, you stressed the importance of fast and secure connections. The fast and secure connections between the islands are certainly extremely important. I have such a very practical question. The Road Administration has announced a procurement for Kuressaare-Tallinna, Tallinn-Kuressaare flights and the same for Hiiumaa flights. The winner of the procurement has also been announced, but no contract has been concluded so far. Can you confirm that from 1 June 2019 the new airline operator will transport people with better aircraft from the big islands to Tallinn and Tallinn to the islands?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U69	Thank you very much for this question, Mr Laanet. Good Kalle! Of course, the situation, when there is always a shortage of seats on the plane, when we talk about the direction of Kuressaare-Tallinn, is not normal. I support Saaremaa and Muhumaa, but I am also in solidarity with Ruhnu, which is also the Saare county of entrepreneurs who want this flying machine to be larger than 19 seats. I think we could have a minimum of 30 seats and we're talking about a 40-seater plane. The truth is that the government announced a new procurement, one minute it was cancelled, and then it was re-proclaimed to find a more powerful flying machine. That's what's happened. The only problem is that if you, honourable ambassador, want me to confirm here before you that these flights will begin on 1 June, then I will be based on the fact that we still have a separation of powers and, as far as I know, this procurement is currently being challenged. I cannot go over or around it in any way, even if an ambassador to the Riigikogu demands this date as specifically as you do. But to work to make sure there's a bigger plane on the lines, of course I do. At the same time, we must not forget that there is an important connection between Tallinn and Kärdla, as was the case with the question. It seems to me that the size of the plane is good for the giants, and that the departure times are good. But the problem is how Kärdla Airport receives planes in cloudy or cloudy weather. The outgoing government invested a million euros in Kärdla airport, if I'm not mistaken, to improve the system that will help pilots to land the plane safely. So both lines, of course, are also the priorities of the government to be created. If this is a serious question in your soul and heart as well as in this vote, I promise you that I will do everything in my power to ensure that there will be a good air link between the big islands, so that Kuressaare will have a bigger plane on the Tallinn route. But as I said, according to the latest information, this procurement is currently being challenged.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U70	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U71	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good Prime Minister and Prime candidate Jüri Ratas! I would like to ask a short and specific question, which is why I wrote it down and read it now. But I really wish you wouldn't push me or ridicule me for that, like you did with my colleague Annely Akkermann. Question: how will your government ensure 100% that the press is the voice of the people, not the voice of power, especially given that some future members of the government have already put pressure on national broadcasting? It is particularly convenient to press when the budget negotiations begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U72	Thank you. I do not know of any government where anyone would have put pressure on national broadcasting in any way by budgetary disputes or budgeting. Point 1. Point 2 is that I support the current principle that all groups of the Riigikogu present one of their representatives to the National Broadcasting Council. I think that makes sense. But these representatives, as far as I know, aren't dealing with the content of national broadcasting programmes, it's not their job assignment. I think this approach could stay. True, national broadcasting faces a major challenge, where the government and the Riigikogu must be its good partners: it is the construction of a new building and investment in new studios. For this, I believe, the government and national broadcasting must cooperate well, but it does not concern the content of the programmes. I think the model that is currently in use is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U73	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable candidate for leadership! I'm a little confused. I have a feeling that your councillors have given you some wrong speech. I listened to it, it was nice, but it doesn't apply to this coalition of yours. Or, if that is true of this coalition, why do you support, through your speech, such statements that the British Prime Minister is a traitor to his own country? Britain is one of our greatest allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U75	Thank you. Now you are also confused, even though you are such an experienced member of the Riigikogu. Let's work this out. This is the correct speech on the coalition agreement, published by the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party. Great Britain was touched by one paragraph of my speech, where I spoke about Brexit, but I also talked about the future relationship and I made a reference to the history of Estonia for a hundred years: Great Britain has come to our aid. I really hope Brex is never going to happen. Unfortunately, I have to admit, I think it's a little too light blue and we'll see Brexit sooner or later. But the goal of maintaining strategic relations with Britain in the economy and in the field of defence is extremely important, extremely important. We must also take into account the fact that in Britain, 10,000 and 15,000 of our fellow countrymen, Estonian residents, live. Their rights are important. We also have companies that are active in Britain, and they also have their rights. Your question had to do with the British Prime Minister, Mrs Theresa May. For me, it's very sympathetic, good and, I'd say, a well-balanced co-worker. Today, the situation is difficult both in the national parliament, in Theresa May's party and in the European Union as a whole. And actually, Brexit started now over three years ago. In any case, I respect him very much, and our personal contacts are also very close and good.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U76	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U77	Thank you. Apparently, never before have the prime minister's candidates talked about coherence as often as you did in your speech. Yet no government has divided Estonia as much as the one you are asking for a mandate for today, good Jüri. You wish to bring into the government a party whose members in the Riigikogu have called doctors murderers during coalition negotiations, ensuring the security of Estonia into a deep state, Russians living in Estonia into parasites, etc. I'd rather not say what they've said about minorities. And I don't think you really think you can build a coherent society like that in your heart. My question is very simple, and I'm sorry! It's also very personal. Does your conscience sometimes reveal itself and even a little hurt when you think that there is actually an alternative and that you really don't have to do what you're doing right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U78	Thank you, Mr. Cloth, good Javier. I said in my speech, and I really do mean that we always divide society into two: 'you' and 'we'. Now I see that we share society with the right and the wrong ones. Some are good, others are bad. I think it's a very wrong distribution. Sincerely: this is the wrong distribution! I accept what you said as a tribute when you said that no one has spoken so much about coherence as a candidate for prime minister. I think this coherence is needed today to unite Estonia in order to reassure Estonia in order to move Estonia forward. And thank you for the credit! Now, this finger-pointing and morale reading. I said that when I answered Heljo Pikhof. I might as well say, look what you've said, good Taavi, some people in the bench row where you're sitting. What political expressions about other politicians, other people, have come out of their mouths. What's in it for me? Now you can tell me that you see where I used to say about EKRE and about Jüri. I'd be bragging about where I used to say, you see, about you or about some member of your party. I won't do it. This is not going to take Estonia forward, I think. That is not the role of the Prime Minister either. In my opinion, the Prime Minister's role is to be Prime Minister for all Estonian residents and to do everything in order to ensure that our society is coherent. And for that, good Javier, I'm ready to work every second and every minute. For Estonia! If you're asking me about my conscience, I guess we're all thinking different thoughts inside. But today I feel that this coalition agreement calms Estonia, is a binding agreement for Estonia and takes Estonia's life forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U79	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U80	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! Regrettably, in the last two months, you have the impression that you will soon be in the government headed by Minister Mart Helme or Helir-Valdor Seeder, not the other way round that they will be members of your government. And that's a shame. Your speech today was very good, and personally I would really believe you. Why, then, is it that the statements and speeches of coalition partners are fundamentally different from yours? And now a question for you as Prime Minister. Can you confirm here today that, after the government has approved, such statements, taggings and taunting attitudes towards many people in Estonia will end? As you said in your speech, Estonia is the home of all people living here and they want to live here with a smiling face and contribute to society with their work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U81	Dear Mrs. Hunter, good Helmen! Thank you for that supportive word. Just as I said thank you for the credit, I'll say it to you. Sincerely! But this first line of yours, I remember, it was November or December 2016, when it was said that Jüri Ratas was a member of the Evgeny Ossinovski government. I'll be honest with you, it didn't bother me very much. Evgen and I had a good time, and we're working together. There has certainly been good cooperation with the Social Democratic Party, and I think we did a lot of good and right things. But, you know, they're gonna want to stick labels on, who's in the government? In the end, however, the highest authority will decide how things really are, who has support, and who does not. Now, the question is, can I give you three drops of blood and one hundred percent of the probability that no one in the coalition will say one thing or the other or the third thing? That promise would be absurd! That would be absurd because there are 56 members of the Riigikogu in the coalition, and I cannot tell everyone every morning that you can say that, you cannot say that. We have freedom of speech. But your question, in my opinion, has more to do with such disparage or, as you said, mockery. I can say that I am making an effort at any moment to do so, too, by responding to Mr. Clothes, in order to unite society so that there are fewer fears in society. Yesterday I had a very nice talk with a member of the Riigikogu of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. He said very nicely that he wanted to bring down the current level of fear so that we would have less polarisation in society. I really took it to my heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U82	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! You talked a lot about the climate, and the coalition agreement is also about climate. However, in public speaking, Mart Helme answered Mr Ojakivi's question that he would consider leaving the Paris climate agreement, if the partners were also considering it. It is such an important question that you probably discussed it. I have this question: how did you manage to rehabilitate Mart Helme so quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U84	I'm not raising anyone. I'm trying to deal with my family, where I'm trying to do my father's role as best I can. I don't plan on getting out of this deal, and that's not what the coalition has agreed. You, Mr. Kranich, should be very close to environmental issues. After all, as a former Minister for the Environment, you know very well how important it is to keep partners in your house, internally and internationally. I think we need to continue working together.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U85	Jüri Jaanson, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U86	Thank you. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! Good George! I'm gonna do some research on value conflicts. We are in a situation where you are also talking here about all of us in Estonia, not that someone is wrong and someone is right, but about all of us in Estonia. And basically, the introduction to the coalition agreement is actually nice to read. But there is a party in your coalition that you have been talking about here in the Riigikogu in January, you said that if they continue to take their heads off, segregation on the basis of nationality or race, or humiliation of women, it is not possible to cooperate with them. Now it is claimed that this party is pulling back its rhetoric, but the content remains. I'm researching how you plan to deal with value conflicts in a coalition to be created.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U87	Thank you, Mr. Jaanson. Thank you! You also opened a round of these questions. The content of the deal is here: you see, about 40 pages. That's the content. And that's what gives us the assurance that we stand up for these principles. After all, the list that you have pointed out also includes those social groups that are, on the one hand or on the other, the most vulnerable, and they must be protected in any case. We need to notice different people in Estonian society, people with different principles, people with different views. We need to be able to listen to them more and build a more united country with it. I will continue to stand by the fact that there is no intimidation in Estonian society. It's not gonna take us anywhere. This road is disastrous. I consider this principle important when I am given this opportunity in the Riigikogu today, also in the government and coalition that is to be created.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U88	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U89	Thank you, manager. Prime Minister's candidate Jüri! I have a very serious question. The new allies of the Centre Party have said that, at the order of the European Commission, the Estonian special services are doing some kind of encouragement or subversive work against them. As Prime Minister, I am sure you are familiar with the work of our special services as well as the specifics of the European Commission's work, whether the Estonian special services are interfering in Estonian domestic politics in any way, doing work against one party. And does the European Commission even have the right to how it could be organised? just give the special services of Estonia such work assignments?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U90	Thank you. The European Commission does not have these rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U91	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U92	Thank you very much. Mr. George Ratas! The OECD report on the health situation in Estonia and the health of Estonian people has been on the table of your previous government for more than a year and a half. The report shows that we have the highest rate of heart disease and cancer mortality in the countries of the European Union. In the 30 days following an acute heart attack and stroke, we have mortality at the top of the European Union, and we also have the greatest disease of tuberculosis and HIV infection. This data does not make you smile without a doubt. At the same time, it is also pointed out that the need for uncovered treatment in Estonia is almost 13%. And as far as money is concerned, our health expenditure is twice as low as the European Union average. You have then formulated that the order of treatment should be shortened. Sequences of treatment...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U93	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U94	... shortening is the tip of the iceberg. This can't be the solution, the solution is somewhere else. What would your solution be? What would your solution be, based on Churchill's words that the most precious treasure and priority of one country is a healthy citizen? How do you do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U95	Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu. Please respect the time limit! One minute is for the question! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U96	Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Mrs Everaus! First of all, thank you for this very substantive and important question. I consider this to be very important, because these terrible diseases, which you mentioned in your question, really are devastating our people very seriously. We see that we are not at the top of the European Union with our healthy lives, but rather below. I would also like to say that the average life expectancy in Estonia could also be much longer, including for men. But, in my opinion, the direction we have taken to move forward with solidarity health care, solidarity with the medical system, is right. I think it's very important. At the same time, we see that there are small components of private medicine, which the Health Insurance Fund also finances, and I think that might be the case. I don't think it's right to turn this system over. That was point one. I think you said that 13% of our population is not covered at all by insurance. This is a problem and, of course, it is a matter of the state budget. I remember it was in February or March 2017, when our doctors and nurses came out with a strike warning. At the time, we discussed the country's budget strategy, and Evgeni Ossinovski carried the portfolio of the Minister of Health and Labour in the government. We were able to find some EUR 300 million for the next five years. This was also the reason why the doctors did not start the strike, and I was very honoured to have their alliance's assurance that they would support our decisions. At the time, we also decided that the state would pay the health insurance share for those people who are retired. This decision was expected for more than ten years. Of course, with money alone, we cannot prevent a variety of serious diseases, whether they are cardiovascular diseases linked to heart attacks and strokes, or cancers of various kinds. I think that much also depends on our daily routine, how we feed, how much we move, how tense and stressful our work is, and, of course, how well we can rest and sleep. All of this needs to be balanced. But first and foremost, we need to find more money for the Estonian health care system. In any case, I support it, and I believe that you, Mrs Everaus, are ready to cooperate here. We're on the same side of the front line. One step, for which Mrs Riina Sikkut, Minister for Health and Labour, has also been very serious, is involved in the development of personal medicine and more in moving towards it. I think we need to have serious debates, going along with ideas that have been developed, for example, by scientists from the University of Tartu. For example, it would be very good if we could better apply artificial intelligence to the processing of different health data. Just this preventive side, just so you can tell people that you, George, or you, Mari, have to do it more and do it less, then you risk staying in one serious illness or another. In my opinion, international cooperation is also very important. Eight or nine months ago, I had the opportunity to meet my Nordic and Baltic counterparts and the British Prime Minister in Oslo, Norway, a cancer cluster. There was also a very serious rise in the subject of international cooperation, the topic of data comparison and the contribution of artificial intelligence to the processing of these data. We certainly need to be able to provide as effective and rapid medical care as possible across Estonia, including an ambulance. I want to say thank you to the ambulance. I think the Estonian ambulance staff is very professional and is very operational. But we also have to think about the fact that there are many scattered settlements and islands in Estonia. If anything happens to people there, how can we ensure they're delivered to the hospital? Often this means that people must also be transported by helicopter from one place to another. Those are some keywords. I once again assure you that this is a crucial issue. I fully agree with you that this is one of the most devastating problems for our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U97	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U98	Thank you. Mr. George Ratas! You were somewhat upset here when you were asked about your previous confirmations of the possibility or impossibility of cooperation when it comes to the values represented by the EKRE. Do not wave with the coalition agreement, I can assure you that we appreciate both you and your colleagues, both today and in the future, not only according to the text of the coalition agreement, but still according to everyday words and, above all, according to real deeds. And I agree with Vilja Kiisler of the Postman who said it wasn't a rhetorical matter, but the content is appalling. There are two other articles. Mikk Salu wrote an article in Eesti Ekspress a few weeks ago with a very well-materialized title "Ruben Kaalep's Nazi and anti-Semitic trail is wide like the Lasnamäe channel." Last week, Sander Punamäe wrote in Postimees: 'The future Minister of Rural Affairs Mart Järvik also shared the post on 10 March this year on his Facebook time line, according to which the Estonian state will be led by the Saljuud and the soionists.' ' Please don't start reading me the epistles now. I am simply quoting the articles published in the paper as a concerned reader and asking, just in case, if I understand correctly, that you and these people share a value area sufficient for government cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U99	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much, Mr Mikser, for reading me a variety of newspaper articles. I have to admit, in the last few weeks, my eye isn't on everyone. There have been serious negotiations, and thank you for helping me! Actually, Sven, I've learned to be calm and balanced from you. I can't say I was ever upset or upset about a question. I've had the honor of serving with you in the government, and I think your balance and a good sense of humor have always taken our discussions forward. But I'll stick to what I said. You brought quotes from different newspapers. Oh, there's so many of them, and I wouldn't sign anything. What I signed is a coalition agreement, yes. In any case, the principles set out in its pages are very good for me, and I invite you to support them as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U100	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U101	Thank you. George, if I were you, I wouldn't be waving that coalition agreement very much. That you don't keep your promises, you've proven yourself very well and repeatedly. So don't tell us what you signed in that coalition agreement. I'm also asking about values, but on the other side. Before the elections we also saw some people joining the EKRE and very quickly left after their loved ones started asking them, "Hey, you may not be racist." Don't you have someone close to you who's asked you, "Are you a racist now, George? '? I can comfort you or rejoice in my children asking me about you what happened to Jüri. Why would he do that? Is he a racist now? What do I tell them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U102	Thank you. No, it's not. Tell them I'm a positive person. And I will also answer your question: No one I know or close to asked that question. I gotta admit, somewhere 15 seconds ago, good Valdo, I can still say you're a good co-worker, we know each other, you were the first one to ask. I mean, you did it through your kids' mouth. But yes, you have to be positive and put more eyes towards the sun, then the shadows fall behind you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U103	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U104	Thank you. Good George! You here with a very loud voice, you make all kinds of promises when you answer questions, you use the words 'you can be sure', 'I promise', 'I assure'. With the same booming voice, you assured me, at least four times before the election, that you would not cooperate with the EKRE, that the EKRE values would rule it out. Why would anyone believe the promises you made with your thundering voice?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U105	Thank you. I have answered this question four or five times today and also said that really, if these values were still like this, I will not cooperate. These values have changed in my opinion. I have never heard in the coalition consultation that the agreement seeks the points that I pointed out at the time, for example, the cutting off of heads. It didn't exist. I also said that if these principles change, I think dialogue and cooperation are better than sitting in different corners of the room. This also applies to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. I sincerely believe that we need not only to have more dialogue in our foreign policy, but also in internal policy. This actually ensures the unity and balanced development of Estonia. I don't know what to say about my voice, it's from my parents and the nursery, which I'm proud of.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U106	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister candidate! You have referred on several occasions to the document that is before you and from which you have read, just as some other representative of the Riigikogu has read from his own paper. You have said that this is most important, more important, even than what has been said before, during and after the drafting of this document. And you've been talking about a smile. Now, when I listened to your answers, I had two associations. One is that your style is taunting in a low voice, and the other is lying on a smiling face. Why did I come to that conclusion? For example, when you defended your colleague Samson, you said that local road funds have grown during your government. But when I took up the state budget, I discovered the opposite: in 2019 it was 51 million, in previous years 66 million and a little less. Are you deliberately lying, or are you just not familiar with things?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U108	Thank you. I answered Mr Toomas Kivimägi's question on this subject. We were talking about Kadri Samson, and he asked if it was possible to build these roads. And I said I thought the attitude had changed. What has changed is that the money goes not only to build the main roads, but we also ensure the maintenance of secondary roads and smaller gravel roads. I have not brought any comparisons, as you have brought here, I have not mentioned 61 million or anything. And I can't even imagine lying in front of the Riigikogu. And there's no way to lie anywhere else. I think it's important that some politicians in this Chamber learn from it. So I think it's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U109	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U110	Thank you. Mr. Ratas, please answer the questions! First, answer my first question. Do you intend to change the budget rules during this term of office, which will probably follow? I repeat: the budget rules. And second, answer Andres Sut's question. How do your talk about small pensions and the need to raise them and the plan to make the second pillar optional? All analyses show that people who give up on the second pillar will lose their pension drastically and face relative poverty in old age. How do those two add up? I believe you were familiar with the tests when you signed this thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U111	Thank you. I will stick to my answer that I do not see any reason why people should abandon the second pillar. Once again, every person has to make his own decision. Personally, I'm convinced I'll continue there. But now for your first question. Well, we've still been with you so that you, like, want to know one thing and I'll answer you. You say the answer doesn't suit you, and I'll tell you something else. Well, that's not it. No, we have not agreed that we will start to change the budget rules, after all, you mean to change this so-called budgetary position. So that there could be a just 0.5 or 0.6, or, as Europe tells us, it could be a 0,75. This is really not the kind of thing we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U112	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U113	Thank you. Mr. Jüri Ratas, you must be the first person to claim that the EKRE values have changed. As Prime Minister, you should be quite familiar with what is happening in society and what is being spoken about. In a month and a half, there have been very many estimates, not only for me, but also for a lot of others, things have gotten worse. People are more nervous, there's a bigger gap in society. So the value conflict has actually gotten sharper. So I have the question whether you have not really noticed this, or whether you have not been informed that tensions in society have increased as a result of your involvement in the EKRE consultations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U114	Thank you. In my opinion, on your question, the idea that someone is the right ambassador in this Riigikogu Hall and someone is the formula ambassador, someone is better and someone is worse. I am so sorry, Mrs. Maris Lauri, but I do not share your position. All 101 members are equal, and I am based on the fact that these 101 members were chosen by no one other than the residents of Estonia. They chose five political parties here, a little larger, and a little smaller. These five political parties must form a government. I'm not reporting to you right now that I want to join my party, I don't know, the Reform Party. No, I don't. But I have really wanted to conclude a coalition agreement between these three parties and I would like to work together to move Estonia's life forward. And I sincerely wish for what Mr Kruuse asked of Estonia to be a smiling society, not an angry society. So that Estonia would help its citizen rather than put his foot behind him. Do I sense the developments that have taken place in recent weeks? I believe you mean developments after 3 March. Yeah, of course I can feel it. I also communicate with a lot of people. I guess some people write, some people call, and opinions are different. There are those who are very supportive and say that it is right. There are those who do not support. As I said in my speech: I will be guided by the fact that when I am elected Prime Minister, I want to be Prime Minister to all the people of Estonia. I really don't categorize people, and I'm going to tell you honestly that it bothers me when we start using the words 'you' and 'we' in a certain context. I think we have one Estonia, we have our Estonia. After all, I understand the undertone of your question very clearly that you want to say that some members of the Riigikogu are a little less a member of the Riigikogu than any other member of the Riigikogu. I don't think that's the right attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U115	A procedural question. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U116	Is it permissible for a waitress to put words in her mouth that she has not said? If the questioner asks about the tensions in society and the waitress answers, saying that you say that the members of the Riigikogu are correct and false, which the questioner has not said, is such a thing acceptable in the Chamber of Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U117	It's not a procedural question, but I've noticed that basically the same way the questioners put words in their mouths to the waitress. But in fact, as I have already said, both the questioners and the respondents have the right to speak at their best discretion. Maris Lauri, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U118	Thank you. I would like to ask this question to the person who is currently on the remote. George, aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U119	Next, Liina Kersna, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U121	I'm sorry! Jürgen Ligi must have a procedural question, too, I hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U122	Mr President! You answered my first procedural question that the answer could be anything. Please tell me the passage that allows this behavior. For example, my second question, which was about pensions, and which was also about Mr Sut, was answered by his personal choices and by the personal choices of the Commissioner of the European Commission. But we asked about the pension system. Is this the way to hold a debate? Can this be the way to lead the country? Are there any points in the Rules of Procedure that allow random answers to be given?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U123	You have received an answer from the waitress, you have had an opportunity to ask your questions. And if we look backwards in history, we will see that you, too, have repeatedly answered questions in the ministerial role by not answering them. Of course, it is very welcome if the questions are answered accurately and specifically, but sometimes the tone of the questions is that, unfortunately, they cannot be answered directly. So the prime minister's candidate has answered you at his best discretion. Let's go, please! Liina Kersnal stopped asking a question, so let's take it from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U124	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! You have repeatedly referred to the Coalition Treaty as if the Coalition Treaty was the only reality or at least it would seem to you that the Coalition Treaty is more reality than the words of politicians in public positions. They're kind of less real. My question is: does the word of a politician mean an act, for example, I have lived in such knowledge, or does the word of a politician mean nothing today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U125	Thank you. Certainly, the coalition agreement has not been stoned. Point 1. Point 2 is that the coalition agreement is not, I think, the only document on which we are managing Estonia's life. And I think it's very right. I know there have been coalitions where such a treaty has been completely lacking. I think we need to be flexible. There must be flexibility and, of course, if we see any changes in society, the government coalition must respond to it. Your question was whether the word of a politician had weight. It's a lot of weight.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U126	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U127	Thank you. Good George! There has been a lot of talk in this Chamber today about different issues, but very little talk about foreign policy. Estonia's reputation will certainly be shaped very much by the incoming government. As far as I know, I have read so much from this document called the Coalition Agreement, and there is no mention of Georgia in your agreement. When the parties met with the Estonian diplomatic corps, it was said that this was a technical mistake that Georgia was not mentioned in the coalition agreement. At the moment, I read about this agreement that it only states that you support Ukraine's integrity. Did the coalition talks also have a Georgia issue and support for Georgia, or has it been deliberately omitted and the relations between Estonia and Georgia are no longer what they were?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U128	Estonia's relations with Georgia are very important and Estonia's relations with Georgia will also go under this point. Read this sentence that we attach importance to close cooperation with the Eastern Partnership countries of the European Union and that Estonia supports the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine! This also applies to Georgia and is important to the government coalition that will be created.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U129	Jürgen Ligi, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U130	Thank you. My first procedural question was not answered. This was: According to which paragraph can the respondent answer anything? I have another question for you now, please answer both of you! This is: according to which section of the Rules of Procedure Act may the chairman of the meeting, I mean the previous President of the sitting, start slandering the questioner in the style that you yourself have ever done anything? No one can control it properly and no one will prove it. I really want us to have a format for questions and answers: I am asking about the pension system, and Jüri Ratas is not going to comment on me or on his choice when answering, but on the pension system. Is the spirit of the Rules of Procedure consistent with the conduct that Jüri Ratas is demonstrating today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U131	A good political culture is that the questioner and the respondent respect each other and respect each other. The rules of procedure do not regulate political culture issues. The members of the Riigikogu are free to ask their questions and so are the ministers on the board when giving their answers. But I repeat: we must build on a good political culture. Thank you. Let's go! Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Good George! I'm about to get a job, and I think I'm gonna be all right. You're very good at answering, I'd say, in a variety of ways. Today, for example, is diversity day. And just as in the Symphony Orchestra, not only violins can be played, and just as every day you don't want to eat mashed potatoes, diversity is also important in society, companies, organizations. When we look at this future government, we see how few women there are. When we look at the coalition agreement, which is a joint part of the three parties, we see that gender equality is not mentioned there. There's already been a reference to your coalition partners' statements about women. Does this mean that gender balance is not important in a coherent, inclusive, caring society to which this coalition agreement leads?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U133	Thank you, good Riina! No, that is certainly not to be concluded. I also said, I specifically pointed out that, unfortunately, in the European Union, we are at the forefront of the gender pay gap, not in a good position. I know that. We have tried to improve the situation and we have taken certain steps in the public sector. It is true that we have not been able to agree on certain principles in the outgoing coalition that could also apply to the private sector. For me, in any case, equal positions between men and women and an equal approach to them are important. Balance is important. The result of the recent Finnish elections is that about 50% of the new Eduskunta, the new parliament, are women. I cannot prescribe to any of the residents of Estonia how to choose. But I think it's not a bad idea that more women should come running and do politics. This could be important to any party. I do not know whether this starts with the fact that there are so-called striped lists, or not, but I think it is important that we move towards it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I'd say, dear George, we've known each other for years, talking about you, you've been a guest in my home. I am sure that you actually know that I am writing all my speeches myself, and strictly based on serious studies and statistical facts. Don't you think that if you turn to me as a douchebag who doesn't write his own questions, it's deeply chauvinist and demonistically arrogant? Is chauvinism and arrogance the values that your controlled coalition will carry out? And does chauvinism concern only the fangs or women, the deaf, the Jews, the Russians and the oppositionaries in general? However, I will also repeat my first question, which is based on the 2018 Social Survey of Statistics Estonia. Aren't you lying when you talk about yourself as a judge of justice to everyone when the number of elderly people who have fallen into poverty has increased by 16% in just one year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U135	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U136	Thank you, Annely! First of all, I'm gonna start by saying that the words you want to put in my mouth don't match what I say. Point 1. Point 2 is that I take you very seriously in any case, and I have no doubt that you are doing your job with a big heart, as you have always done. I'm only saying good, good and positive. And I don't think it's bad at all to write things down. I write things down, too, and it's always, as you say, more factual. And that's how you get through things in your head. So I don't see any problems here. Now, this year's 2017, which you asked me about. I'll take it from another angle. We have to consider that the 2017 budget was made by the outgoing government, and I certainly do not want to throw a stone here in the garden of Taavi Clothing. He did so precisely in the fiscal policy situation that was then in 2016. Perhaps nothing was left unfinished, but those were the political priorities that were chosen at the time. And indeed, this new tax-free system of EUR 500 did not apply in 2017, it came into force in 2018. And at the end of the day, I bowed down to Kihnu too!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U137	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U138	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good candidate for Prime Minister! It seems to me that this coalition agreement is like a fig leaf to you. At the same time, I think that this has also been understood by your coalition partners, and some ministerial candidates have made it clear that they intend to do things through other channels. I am concerned about our officials who have been disgraced, and I am also concerned about certain other groups of society. And, of course, I am concerned about Estonia's continuity. Do you promise us that your words will be worth what they are, that you will then be protected from Estonia's continuity when this fig leaf is torn from you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U139	Thank you. On your question, there is already the idea that no matter what I say here in the Riigikogu Chair, I can stand on my head, hardly change your opinion or position in today's vote. I also said in my speech that I seriously respect the Estonian authorities, and I respect them. I have worked with the Estonian authorities both at the level of the local government and at the level of the state, also here in the Riigikogu and it has always been positive in a very large majority.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U140	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U141	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good candidate for Prime Minister! My second question concerns Rail Baltic. I must say that, as a bad surprise, the coalition agreement that you have been so much admired also deepens uncertainty and uncertainty in this regard, so as not to say that it is quite the EKRE. When we are discussing here whether EKRE has changed its values, it seems to me, at least with regard to Rail Baltic, that the Centre Party has taken over the position of EKRE. What do I mean? I mean, you've re-tabled the opportunity to review the schedule, re-enhanced the possibility of changing local stops and even worse, even the path. George, where has your confidence gone?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U142	Thank you, Thomas! Nowhere! It's all over the place. In order not to get the wrong impression, let me read about this principle in the coalition agreement: 'If the next budget period of the European Union does not guarantee 81% of the co-financing for the Rail Baltic project, let us review the project's profitability, path, schedule and local stops. Until then, we will also continue activities that support Estonian infrastructure in general. ' Basically, it is the view that if we do not receive funding, say, in the order of 80: 20 or 81: 19, then either way or the other, as head of the government, I see no opportunity to proceed without consulting the Riigikogu. This principle is actually written into this international agreement with which other countries, including Latvia and Lithuania, have joined. After all, it has been one of our priorities in the next MFF that we stand for funding to remain in force for 81:19. If it does not, then, good Toomas, one way or another, we must make sure what Latvia says on top of it, what Lithuania says on top of it, what the Estonian Riigikogu says on top of it. It means bigger expenses. I am very supportive of Rail Baltic. I think it's right to go on building this direction. But the truth is, we have to wait for the next MFF, it has something to do with it. But I also think that we could still seriously consider whether, apart from the Ülemiste, Rapla and Pärnu, there could be other local stops. As far as I know, a maximum of ten of them can be made within this project, with a stop price of 6 to 10 million. And I don't think we need a real dozen. But you might want to consider where you can make more stops in addition to these three. I have seen it this way that Rail Baltic is not only connecting Estonia with the heart of Europe, but it also ensures a very comfortable and fast internal train connection. I would also like to acknowledge here the outgoing Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure that we have come this far in our relations with our northern neighbours: Finland is actually interested in investing in Rail Baltic. In my opinion, Finland has really been very interested economically in the construction of the Rail Baltic route. This is demonstrated by the construction of a terminal or station in Muuga. And if, from here on maybe, I really do come to a very distant future now, but we also need to talk about it, then perhaps it would also be an incentive for us to take more seriously these analyses and the search for opportunities to build a tunnel between Tallinn and Helsinki. As far as I know, the Riigikogu has set up a support group here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U143	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U144	Good candidate for Prime Minister! The coalition agreement itself has a nice sentence: 'We are establishing a hostile influence against the Estonian state. ', which can only be greeted. Now, your two coalition partners have promised much more. First, the Fatherland promised the law of influence agents, which is a pretty interesting idea in itself, and the EKRE promised to close the anti-Estonian information channels. Was there no common ground in this regard? Did the coalition partners waive these claims? Does this obstruction now mean that you have the support to stop buying content from PBK for taxpayers' money? And if not, will the coalition partners agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U145	Thank you. There were now a number of questions together, so I'm going to start answering them in pieces. First of all, if someone gave up something and so forth. This is the common part of the agreement that we agreed on. The various political parties defended their positions during the coalition consultations. As far as the question of PBK is concerned, I understand that it is very much on your mind. I am seriously saying that I think I have information about this, perhaps I am wrong, but this topic arose in the pre-election situation in Estonian society, that certain Estonian authorities bought advertising there. There has been talk about the Rescue Board, smoke detectors, etc. [[Someone's commenting on something in the hall.]] Yeah, it really did! And I think that certain authorities, if they want to reach all the residents of Estonia, I am not putting my hand on it. I think the pressure that the Rescue Board might have felt back then was insane, but it was really about politicians. I don't know if it was a game or not. But the problem is that I think we need to take the development of ETV+ seriously further so that its audience grows. I think it is actually important that we continue to do so. It is very important that ETV+ looks more and more Estonian people in the future, whose native language is Russian.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U146	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U147	Many thanks, Vice-President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! You have joined an agreement which provides for an increase in research funding to 1% of GDP. This is confirmed by your coalition agreement. However, I am motivated by the fact that your coalition partners have announced that the coalition agreement is not necessarily mandatory to comply that they may continue to act in accordance with the former agenda. I would be satisfied with your yes word, your assurance that this 1% of GDP will remain valid.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U148	Thank you. The question is quite complicated. I always wondered what you were thinking. In Kadriorg, all parties joined this agreement, except the EKRE, which did not sign it. I have asked during the consultations why this was the case, and they said that they wanted 2%. That must have been their official press release, I don't know exactly. If you ask whether we want to move in the 1% direction, the answer is: yes, we do. After all, during the last period of the previous government in TAN, we also decided that as regards basic data, which we have always measured in terms of how much the Estonian public sector is involved in research and development, innovation contributes to whether it is 0.81, 0.82 or 0.83%, then we rely on the data of Statistics Estonia. In fact, this figure is 0.72% because Statistics Estonia has reduced this percentage. So it's going to be 0.72%. And spending on higher education doesn't go into that 1%. But the goal of reaching 1% is stated in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U149	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U150	Dear George Ratas! Don't be nervous as a waitress! Basic, don't be nervous! And don't disrespect the questioner, it's a sign of weakness. But what I'm trying to say is that the coalition agreement you've agreed on is crawling with the kind of statements that raise the question of exactly what's behind it, what's specifically meant by it. For example, this sentence: 'We motivate local authorities to support entrepreneurship. ' What's the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U151	Thank you, Mr Kallas, and a good former Prime Minister. I'm sure I'll take your advice as gold and try to build on it. What's behind that sentence? In many respects, this discussion, which has been held in Estonian society, is behind it. It has been said that at some point we could change the law on the organisation of local government and entrust local authorities with the task of doing business and the economy in general. As we know, this is not a mandatory task for local governments. From there, the question has immediately arisen: if so, how to motivate the local government. How can members of the council, parish elders and mayors and other members of the municipal or municipal administration act on a daily basis? What kind of motivation could this be, for example, in tax policy? In fact, it has not been possible to agree until the end whether it could be that if the company is operating in a local government, there will be some taxes on the local government. If a person works there, the individual's income tax is indirect and is already received to a very large extent by the local government. I think we still have to follow the current legislative framework. It is necessary to ensure the best possible infrastructure for cooperation between the public sector, the state and local authorities. It must be ensured that if people want to return to rural areas, they also have the opportunity to solve the housing issue. After all, we have a so-called "hirehouses" programme and it is carried out in cooperation with local authorities. I would certainly extend all this to the area of education. So these are the main thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U152	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! The coalition agreement reads: 'We create a structural border guard unit with a separate budget in the PBGB, ensuring appropriate armaments and other equipment. ' I welcome the strengthening of border guards, but I am a little confused with the expression 'appropriate weaponry'. Please explain in more detail which specific weapons or weapons are referred to as 'appropriate weaponry'.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U154	Thank you, Mr. Milling. If I'm going to be discussing this with you here, you're going to do 10 to 0 for me! Well, you know the whole thing. I have specialists to listen to. This question really arose also, which weapons these then specifically are.. which names and so on. Everyone understood that there was a need to listen to specialists in this field from the PBA and why not more widely. And if you're willing to contribute, it's very welcome. Thank you. This list does not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U155	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U156	Thank you. Good candidate for Prime Minister! Perhaps you have noticed that there is a growing dissatisfaction in certain sections of the hall. And this dissatisfaction comes from the fact that you answer long and very well, but you often leave the content intact. It is very difficult to obtain substantive answers. So for the future, I suggest a little more commitment to content. But my question concerns Estonian. The document of the foundation of this government association deals with Estonian on page 22, and this whole approach is central to teaching Estonian as a foreign language. The development of the Estonian language itself is essentially uninhibited, but it is undoubtedly the most important in the case of the Estonian language. Please open these ideas and ideas, which are related to the development of Estonian as a mother tongue, whether it concerns Estonian as a native language or new or existing programmes. What are the ideas and plans of the future government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U157	Thank you, good questioner! I take this advice seriously, and I'm trying to get more substance. So let's start with Estonian in kindergartens. Now we have really taken the direction that kindergartens, where there are Russian-speaking groups, bet more money so that there will be teachers of Estonian. There are now about 53 groups where we have managed to implement it this year through the Ministry of Education and Research. If I am not mistaken, this is a necessity in all of Estonia, I dare say, ten times bigger: close to 500-600 groups. Now, in the field of Estonian language learning, we certainly wish to continue the programme of Estonian language houses, which contributes to the learning of Estonian language. It has to be said that when you look at the offer of free learning of Estonian, for example, in Tallinn the proposed places of the Estonian language house were filled in a quarter of an hour. There must have been 600 places, if I'm not mistaken. So it's a very big wish. But I think we need to look more broadly at the preservation and development of the Estonian language. We see that in the digital world it is not actually possible to ensure that smaller languages are also represented there. We had a historic joint session of the Estonian and Finnish Republic governments last year, and there we also accepted the principle that different technologies must stand up for their own language. Last time I was at the World Economic Forum in Davos, there was a meeting with representatives of Facebook, and I announced there that small countries wanted our language to be represented everywhere and as widely as possible. So I am sure that Finland and I consider this important and will continue to maintain the continuity of the joint session of governments. Of course, the improvement of Estonian language learning in comprehensive school and upper secondary school is very important. After all, it helps to improve the competitiveness of young people when they go to university or the labour market at one point. So this really is one of the priorities of the emerging government coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U158	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U159	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear George Ratas! My question concerns the confrontation between journalists and some politicians, which is perfectly normal in democracy, but which has been very much enhanced in recent times. Example: Both Mart Luik and Martin Helme have mentioned in the media, before the public, specific journalists of Estonian Public Broadcasting who they think are unsuitable for this work. What is your assessment of this course of action? The public-law media are being attacked from a position of power.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U160	Thank you for this question. In any case, as I said in my speech, I thank and congratulate our press. My position is that our press is committed, free and responsible according to all its characteristics.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U161	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U162	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. I'm listening, George, to your answers, and I'm getting the impression that not your coalition partner's EKRE is about to change its values, but you're about to change your values. This is also what I noticed in response to my question, where you did not really deplore the position of the candidate proposed as Minister of the Interior with regard to the Prime Minister of Great Britain. But let's continue on foreign policy. Today-tomorrow it is certainly very topical to talk about Estonian-Russian relations. There are two lines of this in your coalition agreement, but it doesn't actually contain anything. Here's my question for you. If there is a need for the Government of the Republic of Estonia to send the border agreement with Russia back to Parliament for ratification, will you, as Prime Minister, be prepared to vote on it in the government office?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U163	Thank you, Marko. I don't expect you to sing a song of praise from me. It is understandable that you have taken the role of opposition politician seriously, and that is the way it should be. Now, the border agreement. I think you've done a lot in person to actually make it happen so that the control line becomes the boundary line at one point. As we can see, two countries have failed to move in parallel, at least until now. Whether they can, in the future, is very difficult to foresee. Your question was whether I would vote in my office. As an experienced politician, you know very well that when a vote is reached in the cabinet, in principle, this government will cease to exist after this vote. As a member of the government, I have drawn on the experience of this two-year and five-month period, which is, of course, not very great, and have worked hard to ensure that there are no votes in the government. And I am glad that there have been no votes in this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U164	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U165	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good George! In the context of this last response, it is, of course, strange what the President is going to do in Moscow, if the government itself does not know whether or not the border agreement should go forward. In any case, you put the President in a very difficult position. But I noticed in one response you took a little friendly sting at the time I was the head of the government and emphasized the budgets at the time. I looked up the fresh data from the Ministry of Finance: all these years, when I was Prime Minister, the financial years ended with a surplus. In total, it was about 300 million. And all the years that you've been prime minister so far have ended with a pretty serious minus, I'd say even, a negative characteristic of a crisis, a total of 700 million structural minuses. We know that this minus is largely due to the failure of alcohol excise policy and both the EKRE and the Fatherland received a large part of their votes...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U166	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U167	... precisely because they were prepared to change this policy. When will excise duty on alcohol fall in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U168	Good Javier! You were a good Prime Minister. You were a good Prime Minister, and you did your job with dedication. If I'm not mistaken, I think in 2015 you decided very strongly to increase the excise duty on alcohol. It is true that the outgoing government also went on to increase the excise duty on lean alcohol, while we reduced the angle of increasing the excise duty on strong alcohol, which was decided in 2015, to a flattening point. Of course, it seems to me that we have a different understanding of fiscal policy. I understand that your understanding is that if alcohol duty is reduced, border trade will start to disappear and the budget excise revenue will increase. My opinion is that if alcohol duty is reduced, border trade is likely to decrease. But will it go away? It's hard to say, but it's definitely falling. However, I am not convinced that this will increase the revenue from the state budget. So far, at least the Ministry of Finance has been in a position that this step is not budget-neutral. The question, of course, is also how much to reduce it, which can reduce it to the ground, and what difference could there be between the excise duties of Estonia and Latvia. It is clear that we must consider that if we reduce excise duties on alcohol, Finland and, to some extent, the people of Northern Estonia will return to our market when buying alcohol. But whether it is budget-neutral or budget-increasing, I think we do not see that it is increasing the budget. Whether it would make the budget neutral, that is what we will definitely be discussing when drafting the country's budget strategy. It's what we've written in the coalition agreement that we're willing to look at the excise. But, of course, you know perfectly well that if you do a budget strategy and if it's a negative sign, then something has to be canceled. Now, from your argument that you raised the budget hugely and had a structural surplus, it's now in the minus. I am not happy that 2018 data turned out to be one that did not match the forecast in April 2019. And for that, I've said that, I'm willing to make an effort to improve that position. But you know very well that you didn't do much. It was necessary to roll up the sleeves quickly and to make certain important funding. For example, raising the pay of teachers, raising the pay of cultural workers, such as the increase in wages in the social field, several funding projects just take the defence area that General Laaneots asked about here. I guess the areas that really needed extra money were a lot. Agriculture, for example. I have had a very good debate with your lovely groupmate, Mr Kruus, on direct payments. I didn't want them to come up from scratch. And what Mrs Everaus asked about in relation to the problems at the health fund and even in medicine. It was one of our biggest decisions to give the Health Insurance Fund extra money.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U169	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U170	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! It bothers me and, of course, insults me when I'm called a small-liberal scumbag. There's a word for me. And I have no assurance that such sentences will end after today. But my question is motivated by the fact that I read the electoral platform of the Centre Party, where it is clearly stated that the Tallinn Hospital will be built, which will shorten the treatment queues and increase the quality of treatment in the Northern Estonia region. But there is no word from Tallinn Hospital in the coalition agreement. Is this on the electoral platform of the Centre Party just to get the votes of the voters in Tallinn, and you will refrain from building it or will you still build it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U171	Thank you. In my opinion, Vilya, it is very sympathetic that you continue to follow the actions of the Centre Party and read our election platform. You've never made a big contribution to this work yourself. It's, I think, good that you still consider it very important. As far as Tallinn Hospital is concerned, as far as I know, the Tallinn City Government, the relevant deputy mayor and the Minister of Health and Labour have signed a protocol of goodwill or intent on behalf of the state. I have so understood that it is the position of the Ministry of Social Affairs that Tallinn Hospital could come, and it has also been the position of the city of Tallinn. When it comes to why it is not in the coalition agreement, I believe that the funding for this item is of the order of EUR 350 million when construction procurement comes, up to EUR 500 million. Of course, we can't write it down unless we know what its financial cover is. Basically, can we move on with that? Yeah, I could. But it most likely requires that you know this area well, having also been the chairman of the East Tallinn Central Hospital's board of directors, the sale of both East and West Tallinn Hospital's real estate. I'm sure there's something there to cover the needs, but I don't think it's enough. So it would be worth moving forward, but you can move forward when it is financially possible. I basically support this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U172	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U173	Thank you, Mr President. Good candidate for prime minister Jüri! I have always admired your good knowledge of the Estonian language and good use of words in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, both as Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, and as a minister, by responding to us here. Now I am embarrassed because in recent times, the new word 'deep state' has appeared in Estonia. I wonder if you discussed what this deep state is in the coalition negotiations there. Can I now say that if you get a mandate today and form a new government, will the new government be part of the deep state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U174	Thank you, good Squid! This use of words that you praise and I can't decorate myself with strange feathers. I guess you taught me a lot too. In the spring of 2007, I came to this honorable Riigikogu together, and indeed I have had the great honour of working as the second vice-chairman of the Riigikogu. Never have I been the first vice president. I have had good colleagues in the Chamber and the Board of the Riigikogu, as well as in the Chamber. The authorities have been helping to get the words right. But thank you for that! No, we are certainly not part of a deep state; we are the government of the Republic of Estonia if this government receives its mandate today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U175	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U176	For the second time, thank you for allowing me to ask, and thank you for your previous answer. As you said very rightly, it is not always about money, but often money still gives you the opportunity to change things. This same OECD report also stated that we already had an unsustainable healthcare financing system in 2017 and that this model, this covering of everything from one boiler, will never work. Solidarity medicine is a matter of its own and there are three basic models. What model could be the solution for the future? We're already pretty far behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U177	Yes, we are indeed in difficulty with funding, as you, Mrs Everaus, referred to in your first question. This is unfortunately a negative finding. On the one hand, as I said, we must make an effort to increase funding. Since then he was certainly not at the office of the Riigikogu, Mr Ossinovski, I would like to thank him very much here. He was the Minister of Health and Labour in the government who brought this upset. But coming back to your question, I think there is a lot to do with preventive action. I think there is also a great deal to do with us being able to give a signal at some point that it is very important to reduce the number of so-called empty doctor visits. After all, they prolong the order of treatment. Implementing the digital registration office is very important. At the moment, as a pilot project, as far as I know, it is used in a single medical facility, which needs to be taken forward. So I think it is necessary to contribute from many angles to ensure that the number of years of healthy life in Estonia grows. But I am very interested in debating these issues with you and I would like to hear your opinion. There can never be a way that we do not listen to the opinions of professionals in the field. And here I am offering you some serious cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U178	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U179	Thank you. Good George! I will continue with my first question, which you didn't have the answer to. You said that the Prime Minister was also responsible for the words that individual members of the government are saying, but the question is how this responsibility is expressed. Well, maybe I'll sort it out a little bit. For example, Martin Helme, who is expected to soon be a member of our government, has said in 2016 that Marina Kaljuranna's main problem is that she is Russian. I am not asking how you feel about this statement, because I know it, but my question is: if Martin Helme should say something similar as a minister, will he be able to continue as a minister in your government or will his ministerial career end?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U180	Thank you, Evgeny! I think such answers can be given when these statements are in place. I'm based on the general philosophy that no one can be pushed away from our society. On the contrary, we must build society coherently, we must reduce intimidation. In the end, you construct such different cases with skill, and you have more government experience than I do. I will also construct one case: it may happen that a partner in the government coalition says that this minister must be released, but the same minister says that he will not fall on his knees in front of this partner. The role of the Prime Minister is to find a balance and to find a solution to how we can still move forward together towards a smiling Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U181	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U182	Thank you. Good candidate for Prime Minister! We have talked a lot about values and value conflict here today. You have often referred to a coalition agreement where many of these issues have been resolved or should be answered. I think that, in the end, assessments will be made based on the work done by both the Estonian people and this hall here. You also said that it is not appropriate to lie, and I agree very, very much with that. On 10 April, Mart Helme, a candidate for Home Affairs, told ERR that the Estonian border was a hole. You've been prime minister for a little over two years and five months. Why is the Estonian border open, or why is the candidate for the Minister of Interior lying?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U183	Thank you. I believe that the border line between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation has been mentioned. A few years ago, there was a very negative case on the Estonian side, where one of our country's servants was captured and taken away. I want to congratulate the government that was then in office and those political parties, because after that, a serious debate began on how the eastern border should be built up. I very much hope that in our society this model does not apply in other areas, that something drastic must happen before we do something about it. Is Estonia's eastern border ready today? Not ready. Our land border there is about 130 or 135 kilometers. Police and Border Guard have divided it into eleven sections, and as far as I know, we're going to start with the construction of the first three sections from the triple point to the north. Yes, we have said that when such a limit is completed, it is, on the one hand, a financially very expensive limit. But independence and democracy are always expensive. And on the other hand, it's also a very modern border. I think that, when it is said that this is one of the best thought-out and secure borders, at least in Europe, it is true in any case. Yes, the construction of this border has been expensively expensive several times. And politicians want to look for the culprit who's guilty, why it's costed so many million. I believe I am not wrong that Mr Pevkur was the Minister of the Interior at the time, and I remember that the first cabinet decision on the border was taken four to five days before the 2015 Riigikogu elections. And I generally think it was the right decision. But we didn't know the Estonian state by 'we' then, because I was not a member of the office, I was in opposition to the Estonian landscape and the ground. I guess we didn't know at the time how much drone power could be to guard the border. It's evolved. So I can't assure you in this Riigikogu speech chair, right in the eye, that there is a limit. There's been felling, scrub cutting. In my opinion, the test piece we have built on the heaviest terrain is a maximum of three or four kilometres long. And that's what we're gonna have to go on with. I think, in today's state, the PBA is doing its best to guard the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U184	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U185	Good candidate for Prime Minister! First of all, I want to say that you speak very nicely and very round. That's why I thought I wasn't going to ask you anything serious, and I'm only asking you one thing: do you really believe everything you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U187	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U188	Thank you. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I come back to the answer you gave me to my previous question. You said it was very convenient for me to refer to your potential coalition partner's unauthorized speech. I dare say it's an insult to your claim. Because of the party you're helping to power right now, our social atmosphere is anything but comfortable. Very many people are afraid, anxious, concerned about Estonia, about our people. Politicians who have sometimes expressed themselves inappropriately do indeed find themselves in every political party, but the leaders of one party do so almost every day, trampling underfoot our constitutional values, humiliating and insulting people. I assure you that I really did not find it comfortable to ask this question, quite the opposite. And my question this time is simple: will you stick to this moralizing assessment that it is very convenient to ask such a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U189	Thank you. If I've offended you in any way, Mrs Pikhof, I'm sorry, it certainly wasn't my wish, not at all. Now, from the idea that I'm trying to get someone into power. March 3rd, election day is over. The winner of the elections was known for the recognition of the Reform Party and its chairman, Kaja Kallas. The Reform Party won the elections and it was the task of the Reform Party to form a coalition. This coalition has not been born today. I may give a personal example of how to help this power. As I told you, I have been in opposition in this Chamber for ten years, and I have heard from the spring of 2007 to the autumn of 2016 saying that the Centre Party is not suitable for government, the Centre Party is not parquet-worthy, etc. I am convinced that Estonia is a democratic rule of law, but if someone is elected to this Riigikogu and, for ten years all the time, there is one thing to exclude a party from government, another is the reason, the third is the reason, then I think it is not right. I think that if politics were to only make exclusion and push some of the people out of Estonia's politics completely, it used to be the Centre Party, then this is not the right direction. And today I want to say that if anyone is helping a politician or a party to power, this aider is the highest power in Estonia, the people of Estonia, who give their support. We now have five political parties who have received the highest authority's support. And these five political parties, no matter how difficult the situation is, must find a solution that one of them will form a government. There's an alternative in front of you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U190	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister candidate! In your last reply, you probably referred to the moral assessment of the Central Party by certain people, whether it relates to the tape scandal or the Eastern money scandal, or the behaviour of the former mayor of Tallinn during the Bronze Soldier's rebellion. But I keep hearing from this remote unit that we are all equal, even here in the Riigikogu. I don't know if you live in the real world, and if this treaty is really part of the real world. I can't imagine how I could be equal, for example, to a professor of international reach, the honorable Light Everaus. And I should work very hard if I would like to offend people with my speeches, just as some honourable colleagues from the EKRE can. I couldn't handle it. I don't think we're equal in that sense. What makes me wonder is that before you talked a little bit about the countryside and you were wrong again. When I looked at that coalition agreement, it was...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U192	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U193	The question is very simple. You have written in the coalition agreement that you will give preference to the Estonian producer when selling and renting agricultural and forestry land. If you go...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U194	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U195	As Prime Minister, how will you defend this position in the European Union if you trade subsidies for Estonian farmers? How do you intend to give preference to Estonian producers? What kind of mechanism is that? How is this possible in the European Union? Maybe you can open it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U196	Thank you. Indeed, it is agreed in the coalition agreement when it comes to acquiring land in Estonia. It is also my personal position that the more our countrymen are here, whether forest or farmland owners, use it and do not keep it fed, the better. I think this is the right direction. I agree that it is very difficult to impose barriers in an open world, but it is worth working through these opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U197	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U198	Thank you. The previous government made moderate efforts to restore the railway towards Haapsalu. Will the planned government continue to do so and, if this would speed up the process, would it involve private investors who have shown interest in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U199	Thank you for that question. We have really said that it is important for us to develop comfortable and fast train connections from the capital in addition to Rail Baltic. The list also includes this direction of Haapsalu, namely Rohuküla. The first step we have taken is from Rice family to Turbo, with a cost of approximately 6.5 million euros. Now, should we go on with this? I think it's the right thing to do. Of course, it relates to financial opportunities, whether they exist or not, but ideologically, I think the people of Estonia support a good, comfortable, fast train connection. I think we could think a little more ambitious this time, not just to build a railroad to Haapsalun, but to Rohuküla. It would also give Hiiumaa more pros. Could there be cooperation with the private sector? At the origin of this rule out, I think, there's no point. At the same time, it is a question of what it would provide financially, whether these obligations of the State do not increase financially. Point 1. But point 2: Consider whether it would give some acceleration to work. I mean the completion of the construction. A concrete solution must be sought and considered when this work is on the table. As far as I know right now, there is no specific private supply that we are doing either way. But the fact that we are moving on with this is, in my opinion, the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U200	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U201	Thank you. Good George! You said you should go on smiling towards Estonia and smiling. For 50 years, our power required smiling and scooping, and those who did not strike were eliminated. Now let's see what we've had here lately. Ministers' candidates have suggested that officials who do not dance to their instruments may seek a new job. During the coalition talks, doctors have been accused of murders, this topic has already been through here, and special services have been called a deep state. I'm going to read you the words on Mart Helme's radio: 'I don't think these companies will find that money in their own profits. I think that this money was made into their account by some fictitious transactions by the deep state. " In the light of all this, I ask you wholeheartedly: " How do you appreciate that EKRE rhetoric has really changed? More importantly, is this EKRE content acceptable to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U202	I wished, good Hanno, to answer your question first with this smile, which I am sure you have seen a lot in your voluntary work, when the Estonian volleyball team has done well. But I don't think the other half of your story is inappropriate. I understand that you compare the situation in the democratic rule of law in Estonia, which restored its independence on 20 August 1991 and which elected the XIV Riigikogu on 3 March 2019 to the situation in the 50-year occupation. I hope I misunderstood your comparison.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U203	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U204	Thank you. Mr. George Ratas! You have spoken a great deal about coherence today, and in your speech you also said that you want to cooperate with the entire Riigikogu, including the opposition. Your answers to the questions have given me a very big question as to whether you are sincere in these statements. You have answered so many questioners, let's say so, not very politely. How, then, do you intend to cooperate and how will you increase this coherence, even within the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U205	Thank you. Of course, I am sincere in answering your questions. How am I supposed to cooperate? As I think I said in answering one question, I think one very important feature that we politicians could have more, and I will start with myself, is listening. Listening to another fellow official in this Chamber, engaging in discussions, discussions. I confirmed to a member of the Riigikogu that in the medical field I really want to hear ideas and ideas about how to better solve this problem and move it forward. Mrs. Maris Lauri, I assure you the same. In the previous composition, you have, as a rule, been concerned about the Estonian education system, about the fiscal situation, about the financial situation. I'm open to cooperation in any case. How does it work? Well, people have to get together, exchange ideas, and try to count on each other when there are two, or each other when there are more. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U206	Thank you. Good George! You have said very patronizingly in answering a number of questions here that no one can be ruled out, that is very ugly. However, before the elections, you yourself clearly ruled out cooperation with the EKRE, saying it several times. Now there is a question that has changed. Why was the exclusion okay before the elections, and now it's not? And the second question. Please give three concrete examples that EKRE values have changed since you ruled them out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U207	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U208	Thank you for these two questions. I have repeatedly answered that first question, and I will stick to my answer. To the second question, concerning examples, I will answer that. I said if the values remain the same, if they want to take someone's heads off, I can't cooperate. Even if these values remain the same that it is said that women who have either one or two children and have no children have a different weight in society, then I cannot cooperate. And I also said that if anyone thinks we should tell people of a certain nationality or race here in Estonia that they have to leave, I cannot cooperate. But as I said, I have held consultations for six weeks to form a coalition between the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party. These three positions have never been on the table in six weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U209	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U210	A good candidate for Prime Minister! I began to think that I have been in Estonian politics in one way or another for the last 30 years and I do not remember a time when there would have been so much confrontation and tension and lack of security in society. If you form a government now, you have a great responsibility to begin to relieve all these tensions. These tensions have been recorded here today, there are all kinds of things that disturb people's security. You're saying that what's in the coalition agreement, that's all that's gonna do, and things are gonna get a little bit better. But what are you really gonna do? How do you intend to guarantee that the sense of security will indeed be restored?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U211	Thank you. I certainly appreciate your action in Estonian politics over the last 30 years, perhaps even a few years longer. All the work of the IME, your involvement in both the Minister's office and the Prime Minister's office, but I would also say that your action in the European Commission in two of Mr Barroso's offices has certainly been impressive, and I certainly recognise it. Now, if you're asking me about the sense of security that I'm doing for it, I've been talking about it for about 27 minutes in my speech. I was specifically talking about priorities, I was talking about security, I was talking about social cohesion, I was talking about bringing older people out of poverty, I was talking about education, science, innovation and entrepreneurship, I was talking about defence policy, I was talking about our fellow countrymen who are now living outside Estonia are always welcome back here, I was talking about the field of internal security. I don't think I need to spend another 27 minutes on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U212	Marina Kaljurand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U213	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I listened very carefully to your answers. And, unfortunately, I must agree with my fellow Members who sensed some of your answers to be condescending, so as not to say a ridiculous attitude. And I don't really expect that from the prime minister's candidate. From the Prime Minister's candidate, I expect a respectful attitude toward all those who ask. I want to ask you about values. I have the impression that you do not share all the values quoted in this Chamber and much talked about. At first, you apologized, a few times, Kadri Simson did it for you, later you stopped apologizing. Today you speak of the coalition treaty and use the words 'binding' and 'Laughter'. My question to you is: what will you do as future Prime Minister so that such undermining, such insulting and humiliation will not become a new normality in Estonian politics?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U214	Thank you. I've started this operation three hours and 15 minutes ago. I have spoken about the principles that are important to me and to the coalition that we are creating. I have been talking about a coherent society and a positive society. I have talked about smiling Estonia and the importance of home. I have also talked about the fact that everyone in this Chamber has chosen the highest power, and I have also talked about my personal experience, when it has been said to one party for ten years that you, for one reason or another, are not suitable for Estonian politics. I don't think that's the spirit. If I've offended anyone in this hall, I apologize for that. That's not what I wanted. I have always felt and will continue to view the Riigikogu and the members of the Riigikogu with great respect. Perhaps the most important chair here in Estonia is the Chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U215	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U216	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! I listened very carefully to your reply to Mr Ossinovski's question about the role and responsibility of the Prime Minister. I understand that you see the Prime Minister as such a balance: if one of your colleagues says another xenophobic, homophobic, or anti-Semitic sentence, and someone else deplores it, then you stand in the middle of the swing board, you refrain from taking a clear moral position, and you try to keep it in a balance. I have to say that this position in the past month is aggravating the disappointment that has arisen in you. But my question is on a different subject. Weeks ago, through the press, there was a strange and comical debate between your future ministers. The ink on the coalition agreement was barely dried up when the future finance minister left the building and said that alcohol excises would be lowered immediately. And then another future minister said that, on the contrary, nothing like this was agreed upon. These two arguments cannot be purely formalized at the same time. I'm asking you what was really agreed when we discussed alcohol duty. What will really be done? And how many other points are there in the coalition agreement, for which coalition partners have a completely contradictory understanding of what was agreed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U217	Thanks for the question, good Sven. I think you understand very clearly that the Prime Minister's role is to be a balancer in the government office and also in the coalition. I guess you and I have both felt that in the last two and a half years, and you've been a good professional and an aide in finding compromises. You know, thanks to your politicians, it is through compromises that big decisions are made, also in the foreign and world political arena. Now for the other part of your question. Yes, in the consultations we really have agreed that we want to reduce excise duties, if that is possible. Three excise duties have been mainly mentioned: excise duties on alcohol, fuel and electricity. You referred, I understand, to Taavi Asa, who said we wouldn't. I too read what Taavi Asa said several times, and basically what he said is what we agreed on. We agreed that we would review these options during the RES debate. And that is it: we are discussing these excise cuts in the process of putting together a country's budgetary strategy. Is that what we want? Yes, we really want to reduce border trade, but you know very well that reducing excise duties in three areas is very likely to mean reducing the budget. If it's cost-neutral, maybe we can figure this out a lot faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U218	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U219	Thank you. Good candidate for Prime Minister! I come back to my first question. I got half the answer before, and honestly, I'm very grateful for that. I take this as no disrespect to a member of the Riigikogu. I, too, did not believe that Mr Juncker, for example, would give orders to Mr Sinisalu. I thought it was incredible and good enough that you specified it, and it was good that Mr Helme heard it too. Of course, I am somewhat concerned that the Minister of the Interior is about to become a person who believes that Mr. Juncker is giving orders to Mr. Sinisalu, but what are you doing? I would like to ask whether the special services of Estonia, known to the Prime Minister, are somehow persecuting the Conservative People's Party of Estonia or otherwise interfering with Estonia's internal politics. I think this is also a very important question for Mr Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U220	Thank you. I do not know of any special services in Estonia that would persecute one, another or third party. They do their job professionally.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U221	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! There is not only a world-view dimension but also a personal dimension in politics. In your proposed government, there are two ministerial candidates, one of whom has said with conviction that border trade must be stopped, which means tax changes, the other minister candidate has made it quite clear that taxes will not be changed and the tax peace will come to Estonia. My question now is this: how do you predict, how do you manage to activate between these two strong personalities? And actually, I have a personal question: which man has a greater influence on you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U223	Thank you. I would rather say, Mrs. Tiidus, that I would like to learn from your wisdom. I remember when we discussed the budget for this year at the end of last year. So you stood up for one of Saaremaa's castle churches, if I'm not mistaken, it's the Pöide Fortress Church. And I think the government coalition at the time considered your proposal correct. So I guess you're gonna have to learn. I think we can still work together by building bridges, not by breaking them. But it is clear that the government only works if there is a desire and spirit for cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U224	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U225	Good prime minister candidate, good George! Today you have been asked several times about officials: Can honest civil servants feel confident today? I'm quoting you, you said it was hard to make predictions. From which I conclude that officials will be able to make bold predictions in the future, based on their conscience and best knowledge. I hope you can confirm that it is not acceptable for a candidate for the Minister of Interior to take decisions on the eastern border on the basis of the Nelli Journal. I quote, the Nelli Journal introduces itself, among other things, with the words: 'The single hearts are certainly concerned about the fact that the Nelli Journal is the largest match leaf in Estonia. In terms of the number of adverts, we don't have any competition. ' I hope that this expertise will not be the basis for future decisions. Am I on the right track?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U226	Thank you, good Katri! I think you may have raised the sales numbers of this publication considerably with your question in the coming weeks. But if we're talking about the cost of building a border, then we're still relying primarily on the PPA. Why do I say "in particular"? Because we have also asked for an additional opinion in these calculations, for example, from the State Real Estate and, as far as I know, from Frontex. With regard to this whole concept, however, we are still relying on the PBA, no one else.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U227	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U228	Thank you. Mr Jüri, the Prime Minister's candidate. It is no secret that Mart and Martin Helme have a somewhat different view of how public television should work and could even say, radically different from what has been agreed in society so far. And they've expressed it forcefully over and over again. Among other things, Council member Martin Helme also called for journalists to be held accountable. Then you reacted to it, said you couldn't accept it, and I'm sure you'll condemn it. But see, a few days passed by, and a few days ago in a radio show, the subject was taken seriously again and it was announced that the ERR once the institution has run away and can only be repaired from the outside, it must be shaken from the joints and reassembled. After all, the ERR belongs to the public and the state finances it, the restructuring must be carried out and they will come. In your government, will the ERR be run in a fundamentally different way and the government will be involved in editorial freedom?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U229	Good Indrek, thank you for your question. The answer is no.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U230	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good George! I will take Sven's question, and I really appreciate that over the last year, you've been in the government with this balance, and you've done this job very well. But the role you have in the future government is somewhat different. For example, a compromise can be found on what to shape the system of tax-free minimum. It is also possible to find a compromise on the level of subsidies, even excise duties. But it is often not possible to compromise on value issues. So I wish you the strength to fulfill your role in the future government. There's no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U231	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U232	Good Riina, for strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U233	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U234	Thank you. I am pleased to note, Jüri, that you and I still agree that public television is necessary just as it has so far worked in Estonia. But you and I both understand that the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy are likely to begin very soon, and the budget will have to be put together in the autumn. Some people who come to the government, one of them supposedly becomes Minister of Finance, believe that the financing and functioning of the ERR to date needs to be radically changed. Can you promise not to significantly reduce the ERR budget during the state budget discussions? You're not planning to review the concerns that the public thinks have been critical for a long time, such as building an ERR new TV house?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U235	Good Indrek! I am absolutely convinced that the new government will not address the issue of this new house any worse than you did. I already referred to one of the previous questions and said that at some point this problem needed a solution. And I think we need to move forward in solving this. I think it is right to say that, when we talk about a new major investment in national broadcasting, this centre will be logistically located where it is today. Maybe I'm wrong, but six, seven, eight years ago, a location was discussed on the lake. I don't think that's right. But you know, Indrek, it's very well that there are actually these big objects that need very big investments, such as the National Library. All these problems actually need to be resolved. I think it's as good a solution as we found for building the Kääriku sports base.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U236	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U237	Thank you. Good candidate for Prime Minister! There has been a great deal of talk today about roads, but I have never heard of funding local roads, or municipal roads. There have been four-line highways and gravel roads. What's the plan for the new government? Over the last few years, the financing of local roads, together with European Union money, has slightly decreased. I'm glad you mentioned weed in your speech. The people of South-East Estonia are equally concerned about local roads. Minister Mäggi of the previous government saw as one way to partially forestall the local roads. I hope this is not planned. What's your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U238	Thank you. I understand you think Minister Mäggi saw an opportunity to forestall the local roads. Well, Janek may have such a flying mind sometimes. He must have used the proverb that the forest was a poor man's coat. The forest and forest in Estonia must be preserved. But we really have never thought that we should plant birches or pines or spruce on these roads. We haven't considered that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U239	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U240	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Jüri Ratas, the General Assembly of the Estonian Artists' Association will meet at the end of April. I'm a member of this alliance myself. We all know that the creative people are closely monitoring what is happening in Estonian politics. Therefore, as future Prime Minister, can you assure us all that freedom of creation and expression will continue to be guaranteed in Estonia? And second, one simple question. I know the PM's agenda is tight, but what was the last exhibition you visited?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U241	Thank you. The first answer is yes. With the second answer, I'm in trouble right now, to be honest. It was most likely in the context of a foreign visit when an exhibition was visited. But the truth is, there could be more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U242	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U243	Thank you, good manager. Good candidate for Prime Minister! A large part of this hall had already been clear before these questions about how they would vote, and their opinion has not changed based on your answers. I ask, however, because today we are talking about values: what values do these three parties share in the context of the United Russia agreement? How did you convince the others that the deal was in your shoe?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U244	Thank you. I have to admit, I've seen the questions run out, but Kristen Michal hasn't asked for anything. What happened? But you fixed the situation and still stepped out as the anchorman of the Reform Party. What can I say about that? My answer has been one and the same since 5 November 2016: this protocol has fallen short, it is not valid. But, yeah, there was a question about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U245	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U246	Thank you. Good candidate for Prime Minister! Could the same be suggested for many people in Estonia, such as in contact with the bank? Could they say that the home loan agreement that was signed has declined? How would you explain this decline in the legal framework?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U247	Thank you. Well, I guess that requires some action. I think the home loan agreements you're talking about are linked to the fact that every person pays a loan payment at the end of the month. I can't imagine that if there's a contract activity, it's gone down. I guess you know that well as the former Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U248	Urmas Reinsalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U249	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister's candidate! I think it's been a good debate. There have been good questions and there have been dignified, clear and substantive answers. But now I'm going to put on a real nut, like in the old 'Mnemo tournament': what question did you like the most in person? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U250	Good Urmas! I agree with you that there has been a very ambitious debate. There's been a lot of ambition here. But I think there have also been concerns about the future of Estonia, about the welfare of the Estonian people. The very essence has been asked, and I have tried to give as good answers as I have ever been able to give. But for me, if I may say this in front of the honourable members of the Riigikogu, the most worrying and most breathtaking question, Mrs Everaus, was the question you put. This was related to the health of Estonian people, the number of years of healthy living and the prevention of very serious diseases.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U251	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U252	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's candidate! I'm gonna come and help you with one last question. I would like to remind you that the single agreement with Russia has the signature of the Reform Party Ain Seppiku. If he takes it back, it is likely that this agreement will cease to apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U253	Thank you for that thought. But I will stick to the answer I gave to the honourable member Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-17_U254	Thank you, Mr Jüri Ratas, the Prime Minister's candidate. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the vote, I will once again answer these procedural questions, which have been presented very richly today. The new composition of the Riigikogu has begun its work and I note once again that the content of questions and answers is not exactly regulated by our Home and Working Procedures Act. This is largely determined by our political culture. And political culture in turn determines the good practice of a member of the Riigikogu approved years ago. I recommend that all new members of the Riigikogu, as well as those members of the Riigikogu who have worked here for many years, take a fresh look at it. There are quite good ideas about the content of questioning and the questioning of the Riigikogu. But now we are going to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the mandate of Prime Minister candidate Jüri Ratas to form the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 55 members of the Riigikogu, 44 against, no abstentions. Prime Ministerial candidate Jüri Ratas was authorised to form a government. [[Let's hear it.]] Congratulations, power to work! Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 5.44 p.m.
