ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will start the 7th working week Thursday session of the 2nd session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U2	We will begin by taking the oath of Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Kaimar Karu. Kaimar Karu has been appointed Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology by decision No 503 of the President of the Republic, including 2 November. Next, we will hear the oath of Minister Kaimar Bear. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U4	Now, ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. No one seems to have that wish. In that case, we will conduct a presence check. There are 84 comms present, 17 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U5	We will go to today's agenda and this is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. First a presentation by the representative of the leading committee for up to 20 minutes, then each member of the Riigikogu can ask the rapporteur an oral question and then I will open the negotiations. I'd like the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Enn Front, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U6	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented this draft on 7 October. No amendments were tabled by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Management Board for 18 October. At its meeting on 22 October, the Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions on this draft: to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary sitting of the Riigikogu on 85 Thursday, 7 November and to hold the final vote on the draft, as well as to appoint Enn Eesmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as rapporteur for the first reading. On 4 November, on a proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Oudekki Loone, who was appointed Head of Delegation, was heard in place of Mr Kadri Samson. The Commission's proposals to withdraw the draft from the procedure or not to support it in the final vote were not supported. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are now deciding or not to decide to change the composition of this delegation at large. Indeed, Oudekki Loone has already been mentioned, but we also have a proposal to exclude Mr Sven Sester from the delegation and to appoint Mr Metsoja as a member of the delegation, as well as to exclude Mr Sven Mikser as an alternate member of the delegation and to appoint Mr Ossinovski as an alternate member of the delegation. Thus, according to our proposal, the composition of the Estonian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly after the decision was taken would be this: the head of the delegation, Oudekki Loone, members, Ants Laaneots and Andres Metsoja, as well as alternate members, Leo Kunnas and Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U7	Thank you. Any questions? Yes, it is. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U8	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We had a case here where even coalition ambassadors were dissatisfied when a person was sent to the Assembly to defend human rights, who has excelled in very racist speeches. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly deals in certain situations with the control of Russia, which is denied there. I have been the head of this delegation during the events in Georgia, and I have seen that a central party alone takes away any passion there. Now the Centre Party has taken a step in the direction of making NATO represent Estonia, leading the delegation with a passionate anti-Western approach, in my opinion, in previous speeches also against NATO or, let's say, a western critic. Was there really no debate in the Commission on this issue, so maybe a lighter solution could be found?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U9	As I said just now, the Members of the Commission had the opportunity to listen to the views of Oudekki Loone and to ask questions at the meeting on 4 November. There were questions. These questions were very clear and about the same subject that you just brought up, Jürgen. Oudekki Loone replied and the main line of answers was that he supported Estonia's foreign policy course, and he answered all the questions that were asked. As I said in my presentation, two votes were held and there was also a proposal not to support the draft. This proposal was not supported by the Commission. We are based on this, and this was also stressed by Eerik-Niles Kross, a member of the opposition, that all political groups have the right to submit their members, their representatives, to these committees. Both ENPA and NATO and everyone else are like that. However, we have never had such a coalition in the Riigikogu, and there has never been such a opposition. So now we have done something twice that I do not remember from my long-standing experience in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I do not recall that we have invited people to a separate interview in the case of a delegation change. We have done so because, in principle, it is possible, and that is the right that we have exercised. In my opinion, the answers to these questions were received, which does not mean that some question marks cannot be retained, but you can say that in your possible speeches and finally by voting.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U10	Thank you. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U11	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! When we vote, we will certainly show what we think of this idea. My question is similar or similar to Jürgen Ligil. After all, Oudekki Loone has shown a large part of life and active political activity to society what it thinks of NATO, the West and everything else. The last are posts where two ghosts walk around with a sickle and a hammer, etc. Do you really think that Oudekki Loone is a dignified representative of the Central Party of Estonia in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U12	Here I have to say more or less the same answer I gave to Jürgen Ligi. The political groups have the right to make proposals, the other political groups and their representatives in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have the opportunity to express their opinion and ultimately to vote. And I repeat, the vote in the Committee on Foreign Affairs is a very unusual case. This has never been done on the basis that the political groups are sovereign when presenting their members to these posts. But this time we did, and I, as chairman of the committee, did not make any attempt to prevent these attempts.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U13	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U14	Thank you. I participated in the work of the committee where Oudekki Loonet was interviewed, but unfortunately I had to leave and did not take part in the vote. Certainly, each group has the sovereign right to appoint its own members, its own candidates, but I still think it would be useful for the group to think about who they are presenting. What we heard in that committee from Oudekki Loone was essentially a repetition of Putin's propaganda: there is a civil war in Ukraine, Russia is not participating. And it all coincided with what we knew before Oudekki Loone. This bronze soldier crisis, the Georgian war, now the Ukrainian crisis. Is he the best choice for this place in the Central Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U15	When I heard about this decision and the proposal to put Oudekki Loone as a member of this delegation and the leader of this delegation, I asked a few questions from our group at the time. I got the answers, and I took note of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U16	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U17	Thank you. Good Enn, you've already pointed out in one response that you have a long-standing experience with the Committee on Foreign Affairs in different positions. Can you explain, as a whole, how the situation has developed in 2019 that we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have now been able to conduct a relatively consensual policy on foreign and defence policy in such a way that it has started to break the consensus that it has also started to strike out certain people in determining Estonia to represent it in the role of parliamentary diplomacy? How do you measure it as a whole? How have we got here, and what can this mean for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U18	All the political groups are represented in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and there is also Raimond Kaljulaid, a political group, so we have the whole spectrum of political forces and also political understanding. As far as this substantive side is concerned, I have already mentioned once that we have never had such a coalition in Estonia and the Riigikogu, and there has never been such a opposition. To some extent, this is a new situation. But as we approach matters democratically, it is possible to ask questions, get answers and finally put things in place once and for all by voting democratically. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U19	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U20	Thank you. Good Enn! Maybe you'll shed some light on what happened at the committee. I heard Lotman's anxious speech, and I understood that Mr Lotman was unable to take part in this vote. I do not know whether he had to leave by order of the party and Mr Hepner was replaced or whether he really could not participate. But I can ask Mikhail. I would rather ask you this: is the coalition united and everyone, like one man, supports precisely the Oudekki Loone's appointment to represent Estonia in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, knowing, for example, that a few years ago, Oudekki considered it right to say that Ukraine should stop reaching NATO?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U21	As regards the representation and representation of the Fatherland at the meeting and at the hearing, this must be asked. Indeed, there was not a regular member, Mikhail Lotman, but an alternate. It's quite possible, it's very often done. The question of Mikhail Lotman also contained, to some extent, a decision and an understanding of this situation, which he will certainly be able to express in the end by voting. After all, we still have the opportunity for the political groups to speak, and if certain names are given in speeches and replies, the person who bears that name will also be able to respond. It is impossible for the chairman of the committee to answer any conceivable questions concerning Oudekki Loonet.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U22	Thank you. I would be happy to give Mr Mikhail Lotman the right to reply, but this does not apply to questions, but only if someone's name has been mentioned during the negotiations. So let's keep going. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Most members of the Riigikogu were unable to attend the meeting you are describing, and therefore we are asking questions perhaps based on what the people who attended the meeting have expressed in this Chamber. But if this thing sums up these references to how the candidate has expressed his or her sympathy for one or another regime and positions, are actually publicly available, then will I be wrong if I ask the following? If the Centre Party has presented such a candidate, as you said, the will is free, then can we read from it that it also represents very clearly the position and policy of the Centre Party? If so, it actually means that our usual approach, according to which what is happening in Ukraine is another country's aggression, is changing. Why did the Centre Party propose such a candidate?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U24	I think, dear colleague Urmas Kruuse, that in a sense we are in a similar position. I too could not be present at this last meeting and the meeting was chaired by Commission Vice-President Marko Mihkelson, so I read about what happened there in the verbatim. From there I read that Oudekki Loone has repeatedly said that he intends to follow and follow the Estonian foreign policy course. He has not put forward any negative views on NATO, except for certain NATO decisions and perhaps certain policies, but that is what will happen in the end. So what Mikhail Lotman said on his question, I honestly do not count from this verbatim. I don't think these answers were the same as he probably understood when he read the verbatim. So when it comes to trust or not trust, it is a personal question for every Member. I'm based on what Oudekki Loone has said during these hearings and conversations with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U25	Thank you, Mikhail Lotman had his hand up. Is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U26	Honourable Chairman! If the rapporteur has not named the ambassador, does he not have the right to reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U27	Thank you. The ambassador is entitled to a reply if the negotiations mention either his name or some of the things that somebody specifically mentioned. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U28	Thank you, Mr President. My question, too, is more procedural. We've been talking about a person here for quite some time, a colleague of Oudekki Loone. Is there any way to give him the floor so that he can present his views? I am convinced that Mr Michal and Mr Ligi are, of course, experts on all matters, but also on the issue of Oudekki Loone's foreign and defence policy views, I doubt. Would you like to introduce to Mr Oudekki Loone the possibilities for him to intervene in this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U29	If it was a question or a proposal to me, I will say once again that if negotiations begin, this opportunity will be more than possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U30	Thank you. In principle, Oudekki Loone may speak in the negotiating round as a representative of the political group, but it is for the Centre Party to decide who represents them. Mr. Jürgen Ligi has his hand up. Is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U31	Thank you. I have a procedural question and I am not present as an expert at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Although I have led this Estonian delegation, I could also act as one. That was a comment to my colleague. But tell me, now that Mikhail Lotman asked a question that was strictly procedural, he would have broken the procedure if he had added a reply to it, that he really did not consider Oudek's Creature's candidacy to be correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U32	Yeah, that's a two-way question. Of course, procedural questions must only concern procedures, but, as we know very well, the members of our Riigikogu are good enough and often put their own position on the procedural issue. But that's it. Let's keep going. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U33	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! You mentioned earlier that Oudekki Loone has confirmed that his views coincide with Estonia's foreign policy positions. I took a quick look, found a few statements. In fact, Oudekki Loone considers that no more NATO troops should come to Estonia; Estonia should not increase 2% of defence spending until it is done by others; we should also force 'anti-Russian' sanctions to be lifted. Have I misunderstood, or have Estonia's foreign policy directions changed seriously during this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U34	I think that, statistically, you are certainly right to quote these statements once, but people's views change, and I am based on the responses that Oudekki Loone has given in recent times.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U35	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U36	Good waitress! The face of Estonia in NATO and the views expressed there on behalf of our country are nothing less than a question of Estonia's security. And so I would like to point out that we are not discussing someone's personal question here, but that we are discussing Estonia's views in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, in all the official formats and in all the cost discussions. The position of the Head of Parliament's delegation is considered by other countries as Estonia's position. And if this position is such that NATO soldiers are not welcome in Estonia, it will also be treated as Estonia's position. My question in this light is that if we send a person or people who express such views, can we really talk about the fact that Estonia's foreign policy course has not changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U37	Surely you are very right, Tavi, but the position of the delegation will change at the meetings. The Head of Delegation shall not impose a dictatorship on this committee. I have read the names of the members of this delegation. The three of them, and if necessary, the alternates, confirm this position. Oudekki Loone has repeatedly assured me that he will present at these meetings in his speeches the position that our delegation has reached together at its meetings, rather than going to solo.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U38	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U39	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President of the Commission. I agree, of course, that we have a very important role to play in forming foreign delegations in the political groups' proposals, but according to the foreign relations law, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu also has a specific role to play in coordinating the Riigikogu's external action. What we have here is completely unprecedented. I agree with you that nothing like this has happened either in the Commission or in this large hall before. You mentioned earlier that the reason why we have had legitimate doubts, questions and the corresponding Commission votes is that there has never been such a coalition and such a opposition before. Please, Enn, please explain to us a little bit more about what you mean by that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U40	I mean exactly what I said. Those parties that are currently in opposition are professional parties, as well as political groups who have been at the helm of the Estonian state for years, and that is why their objections, their questions and their positions are professional. The coalition consists of political parties, one of which has never been in the coalition, and one of which has had a relatively short coalition career. So that's the answer. I do not believe that there would have been very great reasons to suspect the proposals of the political groups in the previous times, so we have indeed never stopped on these issues for a very long time and have never voted either. However, it would be a bad thing if the President of the sitting suppressed this wish by all means, at least stopped it. Then we'd have a real problem. The current situation is that, despite Mikhail Lotman's position on the issue, representatives of the Isamaa Group also voted in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as did the rest of the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U41	Thank you. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U42	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, My question is about changing views. Erkki Keldo, my penguin, mentioned a number of views that Oudekki Loone has put forward and on which you, a good waitress, said that human views could change. My question is how and in what direction the views of the candidate have changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U43	In the direction he highlighted in his replies both before the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in several interviews he gave after the last meeting. This is the platform I'm running on. We have given quite a lot of interviews over the years, and there is no doubt one way to find them all and quote them. I'm based on what a person now says and promises to do when he gets the chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U44	Thank you. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I think Oudekki Loone is a very, very nice person. But now, if you look at what's been going on in this coalition lately, don't you worry that it's another one of those little lyrics and lies, and can you trust him completely?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U46	I believe that everything comes from the kind of person the group is presenting. In this case, the Group's leadership has proposed this and they have every right to do so. As regards the response to this proposal, both in the Commission and in this large Chamber, this is a second question. Soon we will find out what the outcome will be. I am based on the fact that Oudekki Loone has emphasised that he is following Estonia's foreign policy course. All the more so as he has worked in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly during the previous term as a member of the delegation, and I don't think anyone remembers there being such an ecstasy that should be considered problematic. Ants Laaneots agrees with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U47	Thank you. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U48	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, A moment ago, in answering Mr Mihkelson's question, you said that this situation in the Commission and in the Riigikogu, where these issues cannot be decided consensually, which is 'unusual', is caused by the fact that the opposition today has professionals and coalitions not so much professionals, or one party that has not been in power before, and another party that has been little there. Can it be said that our country is really run by unprofessionals today, and one of them is really a party of the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U49	This is one example of how this can be interpreted. I have never said that the coalition is made up of parties that are not professional. I referred to the experience, the experience of government and government. But it is clear that political parties and political groups that have ruled the country for years have greater experience and, in this context, higher levels of professionalism.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U50	Thank you. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U51	Thank you. Good waitress! Having listened to your review of the committee meeting and the questions of colleagues, and knowing the earlier statements of Oudekki Loone, are you sure that this choice is best suited to the national interests of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U52	We are in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, we are discussing this issue thoroughly and we can freely vote against this proposal and the decision of the Riigikogu. You can read what this hall thinks.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U53	Thank you. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! You quite confidently mentioned that Oudekki Loone has actually changed his views. Is it enough merely to state that he is following today's foreign policy course, or would it be more credible if the earlier statements of Oudekki Loone, referred to by Erkki Keldo, were publicly and in the press to be overturned?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U55	This is, of course, possible both in theory and practice, but you realise that this cannot be said to the person in question even less by the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is undoubtedly possible. As much as I have been following the speeches and interviews that Oudekki Loone has been giving lately, they are in the direction I was talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U56	Thank you. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U57	Thank you, chairman of the meeting. Mr Enn Peemaa, Chairman of the Commission. It is obvious that it is quite difficult for you to defend this draft decision here today before the Riigikogu. And my question relates to the fact that since you are such a long-standing member of the Centre Party and really very familiar with foreign policy issues, you must have foreseen this situation. But wouldn't you have had the opportunity to prevent what is going on here today and find a candidate in a political party for whom we should not ask these questions? The current candidate obviously finds it awkward to be here today, but what to do, isn't he really made those statements himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U58	In part and in many variations, I'm sure I've already answered your question. As far as the end result is concerned, it is in the hands of all of us when the vote comes. Time will show how a person reacts in a real new situation and what kind of statements he gives. And I would stress that the Committee on Foreign Affairs draws conclusions from time to time. These people also go to the Committee on Foreign Affairs to report on how the work has been done, what the problems have been, how they have been solved, what the speeches have been. So this matter has not been decided for good until the next election. With this decision, we are now changing this small delegation by three members for various reasons. There is no end to politics, nor is there in foreign policy. We are now going to vote and we are going to give our answer to this question about the changes proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U59	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, The NATO Parliamentary Assembly is indescribably important for Estonia's security, NATO at all. However, how has the situation come to be so far that we are discussing that the representative of the Republic of Estonia, as if, withdraws and follows a firm line in the future? Is there really no person in this Chamber who is passionate about NATO who has worked for a long time and knows what he is doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U61	This answer has also sounded right in a number of options. Oudekki Loone has said what he has said. After all, we are not all able to follow the interviews and statements that have been given to all members of the Riigikogu, all the more so since now everything is on a whole different, electronic level. We are based on what he has said recently, also in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I repeat: there has never been such a precedent that a member of the delegation has been invited to the Committee on Foreign Affairs so that he can express his views and answer questions. That doesn't mean that what we've done now is extremely... How do I put it? It's unconventional, yes, but not in substance. If any questions arise, they must be submitted, if any views arise, they must be disclosed. As President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I, as well as Marko Mihkelson, have always observed that these views and questions can be expressed. That is the current position. As I mentioned, there were two votes and these were the result of the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U62	Thank you. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U63	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good chairman of the committee! I think that the questions and discussions of colleagues about Oudekki Loone's views are very well founded, but I remember when the Minister of Defence was Urmas Reinsalu and he made a statement that there should be NATO troops in Estonia. Then Prime Minister Ansip's advisor, Ants Laaneots, said that such thoughts should not be played and the Russian bear should not be intimidated. Do you know if Ants Laaneots has changed his point of view? He represents us today in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and now I understand that someone is afraid that these views will come up with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U64	Ants Laaneots gave his answer. I believe that also very high military professionals, of which Ants Laaneots is undoubtedly one, sometimes specify their views and opinions. So there is nothing extraordinary to see, let alone a person who is a civilian and not the first time in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation to do these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U65	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U66	Thank you, good manager. Waitress! I mean, man's values and attitudes evolve over a long period of time from the surface of what he learned and experienced. You claim today, against the background of Oudekki Loone's previous public statements, that on the Commission he confirmed that he is now on a new course for him, a permanent foreign policy course for Estonia. That's not credible. Man just doesn't change, man doesn't work like that. The question is, in fact, whether the Central Party Group, proposing the Oudekki Loonet, could have asked or made it a condition that it publicly refutes, rephrases or opens up its earlier statements a little bit, who is itself and what are its values and attitudes in foreign policy matters as well. Did you do it? What happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U67	As a somewhat older person, I assure you that in life, a person changes his views on many things, especially regarding the outlook on life and many other moments. So in this sense we all evolve, we will undoubtedly become wiser, not all, but this is the basic nature. As far as the Oudekki Creative candidacy is concerned, the Group has known this long ago that Oudekki is a person interested in foreign policy, who always has his own views. And if he assures us that these positions coincide with the foreign policy of the Estonian state, it would probably be a little strange if the group did not believe him, trust him or give him an opportunity. I would like to emphasise this last one: to give the opportunity to take this work forward, now on a new level. But, as he says, and I repeat, the decisions of the delegation are practically by consensus. These views will be negotiated. I have appointed the members of the delegation with whom Oudekki Loone will discuss these issues and reach common positions. My fantasy is reluctant to think that if there is a position that is strongly opposed to Estonia's foreign policy and defence position, for example, Ants Laaneots would not notice it or express its argumented opinion, just as would a member of the delegation of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U68	Thank you. Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U69	Thank you. I'm extremely impressed by a representative of the Fatherland lying like this in front of everyone. I would remind you that for the first time I was the chief of the general staff in NATO in the summer of 1992, and in 1992 a political decision was taken in Estonia, which I was directly involved in at the time, to become a member of NATO. In 2006, I was appointed Commander of the Defence Forces, and I found it most unpleasant that in fact there was no operational documentation in the Defence Forces when such a system was absent in the Defence Forces. This structure and system, in particular the management system, had to be re-established. At the same time...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U70	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U71	... to the partners in NATO who looked down on us from above, especially the United States and Great Britain, from Germany I am not talking about, to prove that in fact our Defence Forces per capita are equivalent to them if not better, it was Afghanistan's participation in fact.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U72	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U73	And now they come here to talk about something that actually in 2013... [[In the diner.]] The wartime formations, designated as 42,000 men, were turned to 25,000...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U74	Dear Member of the Riigikogu, you have already exceeded your time by more than half a minute. Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U75	And it all started over because the districts were lost. I'm gonna have to justify myself, I guess. So I don't understand the Fatherland at all. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Are they now supporting the Oudekki Loonet or criticizing the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U76	Since there was no question, I'm taking the opportunity and not answering. But I'm a little pleased that we now have a personal question for two people in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U77	Thank you. The Head of the Riigikogu also has the opportunity to close the microphone if members of the Riigikogu violate the rules adopted by all of us. Please respect the time limits! But next, Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U78	Thank you. You said here before the Riigikogu, in answer to properly concerned questions, that it is time that shows this. I'm careful in this sense that I don't want time to show us any disturbing results. Are you completely unconcerned about this bill and the nominations?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U79	In today's world, it may be possible to be completely carefree on very few issues, and probably politics and foreign policy are not among them. When I said that time would show this, I was thinking more precisely whether Oudekki Loone's behaviour, decisions, speeches as head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation were in line with the promises he has made recently. If they don't, I'll repeat what I said, we have a delegation of three, plus alternate members. Given these people, I am absolutely sure that the very different style of presentation or the nature of the statements will not find worthy attention and then the position of our delegation will be corrected. This is not about establishing a dictatorship, it is absolutely out of the question. That's what I meant by time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U80	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Today there has been a great deal of criticism about Oudekki Loone in connection with his earlier statements. But you have said very nicely that, in time, people's values and perceptions will change. Now I do not know honestly how many changes in political views and principles have been here, but you, as an older person, maybe can tell how many people there have been in this Chamber who have carried a ticket from the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in their pockets and have sworn to be faithful to this party, but nevertheless they are people of the people and representatives of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U82	This number has certainly been quite large over the years. It's constantly decreasing because of new generations. The top leaders of Estonia have also been those who have once belonged to the Communist Party, but the Estonian state has always been led in the right direction, which only proves that the views of people in a completely free society are often different from those of a society that is not free.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U83	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U84	Honor the President of the sitting! Good waitress! You have repeatedly emphasised that Oudekki Loone has promised to follow Estonia's foreign policy course. Suppose we choose him today as the head of this important delegation. Now, if Mrs Loone should make a statement that goes against the Estonian foreign policy course, will you be prepared to confirm from this honourable Riigikogu board that you will then propose to the Riigikogu to recall Oudekki Loone as Head of Delegation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U85	This must be a very drastic statement, but no statement will go unnoticed in today's world first by the members of the delegation, then the representatives of political parties, political groups and far from being in the final role of the Estonian media today. It's all being watched. But I believe and hope that Oudekki Loone will act in accordance with the statements and positions he has said in the near future and confirmed today. If not, the opportunity to criticise, to express its opinion, up to the embossed proposals, above all, the group, and by far not least, also has the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which, as I have said, is composed of representatives of all political parties plus Raimond Kaljulaid, which is coordinating the work of delegations and foreign delegations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U86	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups may speak and the speaking time shall be 5 + 3 minutes. First, I ask you to come here for Valdo Randpere Reform Party. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U87	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In itself, in some ways, it is incomprehensible not to say that it is embarrassing how we have come into this situation. We have come into a situation where we must publicly criticise a colleague, which is never a good tone and which we would like to avoid. We have come into a situation that could actually be described as being that I do not know whether we care, whether we are indifferent, or if we no longer understand the difference between suitability and inadequacy. I think the fact is that at this point the fact is that the fact is that the political groups that are presenting in a row is not the first time, that next week the next person will come here to appoint one member of the delegation as the subject of people who are not really suitable for these positions, because they do not share the views they should share when they represent Estonia in these delegations. At this point, we are talking specifically about Oudekki Loone. I'm saying I'm even a little embarrassed and difficult, because I don't mind Oudekk having the kind of worldview he has. Estonia is a democratic state, Oudekki wants to have this view of the world, it's okay. I even like to argue with him about it. But I do not like the idea that a person with such a world view represents Estonia as head of the delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Why? I like and don't like many things in life. I usually like to talk in the head, but in order to be exact, I brought some quotes with me to not harm anyone for God's sake. Now, I'm trying to get a systematic approach, and I'm talking about things that Oudek doesn't like, that people who will soon vote for Oudek, and that Oudek likes. Let's start with what Oudekki doesn't like. Oudekki does not like the size of NATO troops to be increased in Estonia; Oudekki does not like the cost of defence being raised above 2%. Oudekki does not like that Estonia does not support the end of Russia's sanctions in the European Union. Those are the things he doesn't like. Oudekk does not like Russia being called an aggressor in the Eastern Ukraine conflict. We were able to experience this very well in the last meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where Oudekki received a direct question from Marko Mihkelson and did not come across the lips that Russia was an aggressor in this conflict. There was a svammel, let's say it's not in Estonian, there was some crazy talk about how there is a civil war in Ukraine, Russia is not an aggressor, because the war is not on Russian territory and whatever else. Oudekki does not like that Ukraine is not prepared to make peace under Russian conditions. In his view, Ukraine should federalise and declare that it will give up its ambition to become a NATO member, so peace could come. But if we look, too, at what these people have thought about the sayings and actions of Oudekk, who will soon vote for him, or the people who will be close to them, not very long ago Archbishop Viilma said: 'The nature of the letter of support is treachery to Estonia's history and to the people. " According to Archbishop Viilma, a middle party member, a member of the Riigikogu Oudekki Loone sells Estonia and Estonians as Nazis for their election by selling the votes of the Soviets. That is what he said when Oudekki sent a letter of support to a very left-wing government in Greece who refused to sign a declaration condemning the crimes of communism. Oudek thought it was a commendable thing to do. Urmas Reinsalu. Speaking now that Oudekk's views have changed recently, a few months ago Urmas Reinsalu said this: 'The re-occurrence of Tallinn brought Estonia no freedom, but a half-century Soviet occupation. Celebrating Tallinn redeployment as a saluti holiday is not acceptable. ' According to Oudekki Loone, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, a central party member, it is not worth looking for an external political line in the celebrations. 'This is a grand World War II victory celebration and I think a purely domestic political step,' said Oudekki. Hallelujah! What else happened at the Commission? It was funny watching. EKRE asked keen questions, didn't get sharp answers to them, finally stated that the question marks remained up, but we still support them. The Fatherland is eternal, but unfortunately, the presence of Mikhail Lotman in the Committee on Foreign Affairs was not eternal. And as Mikhail went out with his critical position, Heiki Hepner, who was less critical, came and supported Oudekki Loone as the head of the Estonian delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The Centre Party, of course, supports. The party that has an agreement with the United Russia and who is unable to abandon it, their threshold of pain is still so much lower that no NATO delegation is a problem at all. But let's see what Oudekki likes. Oudekki is a frequent guest, not to say stammkunde at Sputnik's. In doing so, he justifies it: 'I really have not studied who exactly finances Sputnik and what they say every day. ' I think Oudekki is, if not in the world, the only person in this hall who doesn't know how to finance Sputnik. As has already been mentioned, Oudekki likes to send grants to Greece if Greece refuses to condemn communist actions. Oudekki also likes to go to the bronze soldier's every year to meet his constituents, celebrate with flowers and songs something he calls the end of World War II with the allies' victory and dot. For me, this is not a point. For me, World War II ended with the victory of the allies and the redeployment of Estonia. And that's the big difference, that's where it starts, the waterfall, the way we look at NATO, the way we look at Russia, the way we feel about it. If a person goes into an organization, his eyes need to burn, he has to want to do this job, not that he has babysitters who maybe change his views, not that he promises to do anything. If I go and buy a white pillowcase and cut holes in it, I will not become the leader of Ku Klux Klan in Estonia. That is not enough, my previous positions do not support it. I would never be the head of some Varro Vooglaiu foundation because my views do not support it, I cannot represent it. I think it would be more honest to say, Oudekki, if you took down your candidacy yourself and said that you would give up after your colleagues have opened your eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U88	Thank you. Since the waitress mentioned Mikhail Lotman, Mikhail Lotman has the right to a two - minute reply according to his request. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U89	Thank you. Since I've become almost as important a hero in this debate alongside Oudekki Loone, I want to take care of a few things. Firstly, the fact that I did not take part in the vote in the committee was that the Commission's sitting was delayed for half an hour and I had an appointment on the radio. I couldn't be late because it was live. So there's no conspiracy here. However, as far as the Commission is concerned, first of all, I would like to acknowledge Enn Front, who is very correctly in charge of this difficult committee, and secondly, I would also like to say a few words for the protection of Oudekki Loone. It is not the case that when he came to the head of this delegation, the head of the delegation, his views changed overnight. He is not such a flag of the wind, nor did he once say in the Commission that his views on NATO have changed. He said something else, he said he would allow the positions of the Estonian Government to be represented there, but not his own views, which have changed. I don't know if he's comfortable in there, so maybe we could save him from this bad situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U90	Thank you. Next thing I know, I'd like to ask you to speak to us on behalf of the Oudekki Loone Central Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U91	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you to everyone who supports me and who has actually clearly seen how I have worked in this NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation for two years. I am glad that no one has ever complained about this, rather the other way round. What does the NATO Parliamentary Assembly do? There NATO members and observers are working together on defence and security issues, making sure that we speak one language in defence and security policy at parliamentary level too, so that we know what is meant in different places. There Estonia's foreign policy interests are protected, Estonia's security policy positions are represented, reports are drawn up, resolutions on topical security and defence issues. There are assemblies, events, committees, reviews of all these I have participated in. Perhaps most strongly I took part in the debate on the issues of the economic dimension and in the Education Committee set up by Madeleine Moon, where we discussed how we could talk about the role of the Member of Parliament in presenting the scope of NATO activities and the functioning of NATO to his electatories. This is also an area in which I think I will continue to do so. When asked in general where NATO could go in the future, NATO certainly plays a very important role in strengthening cooperation between Member States, learning from each other's technologies, sharing information. If you look critically, I think that the trends that some Members have expressed that NATO should be expanded in some way, that NATO umbrella should somehow be global, I am certainly critical of that, I think it is not in Estonia's interest either. NATO has been created to protect Europe and should, above all, remain within the European dimension, and this is also what is primarily in Estonia's interests. We have a lot of questions here that need to be resolved. If we come to Estonia's foreign policy, we might remind everyone that Estonia's foreign policy has not been given anywhere. It is not written to us; not even the previous Reform Party governments could have written it to us. Estonia's foreign policy is being shaped by all of us, including all of us in this Chamber. In order to shape politics, we need to talk among ourselves. If this hall was ever designed, it was transformed into a Parliamentary Chamber. If you notice, there are a lot of triangles in the interior design of this hall. These triangles symbolize that each problem has more than two angles. There's at least three. This hall is where every problem of all angles is discussed. This also applies to foreign policy. In foreign policy, too, situations must be discussed, our positions discussed, discussed, all different angles examined, and then a common position must be formed that protects Estonia's interests. If we have debated these issues internally, found the triangle that unites us and is in the interests of Estonia as a whole, we will go out together and defend it. This has also been the point of our delegations. We work together, we argue the corners clear, we often have different opinions on different issues, including not only in foreign and defence policy. If, for example, we look at the attitude towards European monetary policy, we also see here that we have many different views. We'll argue them out, and then we'll go out of Estonia...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U92	Any extra time? Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U93	... and protect them, but that doesn't mean we don't argue inside the country, that doesn't mean we can't have different views. It should be, because if we all agreed on everything within the country, it would be another country. I wouldn't want to live in a country like this. I think we all understand that in a democratic society, when you argue, you present, you listen, and when there is no consensus at last, we sometimes vote. Then this position has developed, and when we go out, we represent it. I have considered this important so far; so far, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation has done so. I don't see any reason to change that. I believe that this delegation, which we will have today, is one very, very good delegation, and we represent Estonia's interests perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-07_U94	Thank you. There's no more calls. As no amendments were tabled to the draft and the proposal of the commission of directors is the final vote of 85, we will go to it. Please take a stand and vote. [[Noise in the hall.]] Yes, that's right, thank you! Let's make a hall call! I hope that everyone who wishes to vote will now have reached the Chamber and that you will all have the opportunity to express support or no support for this draft. I shall put the draft to a final vote on 85. Please shape a position and vote. Thank you. 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 33 against and no abstentions. Draft 85 has been adopted as a decision. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 11.12.
