ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U1	Let's start today's briefing. We welcome the ministers, the members of the government, who are ready to respond to us! Let's start with the presence check. Please register! 40 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; 61 members are absent. The members of the government who are answering your questions today are Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk and Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in Taavi Aas. Yesterday, 13 members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask questions, so I will give each subject an opportunity to ask a specific question during the discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U2	The first question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asking Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U3	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! On Monday, we received a rather peculiar spectacle in the Riigikogu. Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior of your government, said he's recently discovered the senses of actress, and that's what he's been demonstrating to us here in hours. We heard some of Mart Helme's thoughts on many issues and some of them would like your comment as head of government. For example, Mart Helme said: 'I think that the Estonian society, which has stagnated very deeply over a long period of time, needs some unraveling, and I think I am one of those breakers who makes the standing water move a little bit in Estonia. ' And he continued that he was not afraid to say that Estonian politics needed a different political style, needed sharpness, a resurrection and perhaps some shock. And then, at a hot moment like this, he said, "Believe me, you need me! '. 'You need me! ' he told the Riigikogu. From that last one, it seemed that we should be almost grateful to him for agreeing to be a member of the Government of the Republic. I must say that Mart Helme's view of gender roles, racism, climate science and the European Union has certainly been fresh. There is no doubt that it has been very fresh. My question to you is: do you think that this fresh view that Mart Helme is talking about is necessary for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U4	Mr. Prime Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U5	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, good Evgeny! Well, you put ten different questions into one question. I do not see that Estonia can go any better if we start to break the coherence. I do not see that Estonia can go any better if we insult anyone in society at any level, say badly, say foolishly. This is not the Estonia we have built. Now, you have highlighted the different aspects of gender roles and others, and unfortunately part of your question missed the microphone. But I think that, as far as minorities are concerned, we must respect everyone in Estonia who lives here, regardless of what someone's political views are, what kind of sex is, what kind of people's beliefs are on different issues. I have said that I did everything in the previous government and I will do everything in the current government to build bridges in Estonia. I have also said that this must be understood by all coalition parties and, of course, by all opposition parties. This must be understood by all politicians, and I think it is the feeling, whether it is understood and whether it is wanted to understand. When it comes to what you said, which everything has to be changed, it is clear that if we are talking about any changes in Estonia's foreign and defence policy at all, these can only be changes that strengthen our position. They must strengthen Estonia's position in NATO; they must strengthen Estonia's position in the European Union. I very much hope that, at the end of this week, the day after tomorrow, we will also be able to strengthen our position in the United Nations. But it's up to the vote. That's my answer. I understand very clearly what conflict you have in mind with your question, but there is no other way I can respond, because that is how I feel in my soul. True, coming to the opposition coalition is always difficult, but at one point the transition period must end.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U6	Thank you. My colleague, Mr Ossinovski, has the opportunity to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U7	Thank you! It is certainly nice to hear from you that all the people of Estonia are our own people. You say we have to build bridges. But if you, as a head of government, are already halfway across the river by building a bridge, then on the other hand, your government minister will set the bridge on fire and, frankly, this raises the question of how and how long this could last. On Monday, Mart Helme, as your government minister, is bravuring here, even lying about certain circumstances that affect your identity as well, but you say that he continues to be your government minister and you trust him in this work. As an observer, I simply wonder if I understand the situation correctly. In fact, we hear things in this Chamber of Riigikogu and also in public, from the mouth of Mart Helme, which are certainly causing certain problems, are also causing problems for you. In your public comments, you have taken up the role of apologizing to everyone for your coalition partner over the course of months. Now it seems to you that, in essence, the situation is moving for the better, and sometime it has to end. You've said in an interview that you think the situation is already returning to normal. I haven't noticed it's returning to normal. To be honest, this Monday once again assured me that EKRE is unmanageable because it does not share the fundamental values that are fair in Estonian society. As Prime Minister, how long do you tolerate such a coalition partner and such ministers, who do not really share with you the fundamental values that have been agreed in Estonian society?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U8	Thank you for this question. I understand very clearly that your view of the political situation by the opposition is different from that of the coalition. It's understandable. One objective, I think, we have one in common, and I sincerely think that we have one in common. This is the goal that Estonia is doing well and that the people of Estonia are doing well, all 1.3 million. On one thing, however, we see different scenarios for the future. While in opposition, it is quite natural to do everything to make the coalition stumble at one point and to stumble so badly that it does not stand up and create new coalitions. It cannot be blamed on the opposition. The opposition could be a positive side of society's pains. This goal is understandable. And it is also understandable that the opposition's constant desire at one point is to rise to the coalition. In this respect, our visions are different at the moment. Your question is, in particular, about the Chair of the EKRE and the Chairman of the EKRE. I also said in yesterday's Daypaper interview that I think this rhetoric has changed. But I'm in the same position as I said yesterday. I said that I believe that this rhetoric must change even more, that this change is not enough. Today, I told you in the first response that it was difficult to come to the opposition coalition. But I also said, in conclusion, that at some point such a transition period must end. I would also like to say that the EKRE has come to a government where there have been rather complex substantive issues to be resolved. We started making the country's budget strategy. As a result of the opposition coalition, this is certainly a huge challenge for them. We've handled the RES nicely. I think that the whole government, and certainly the Minister for Finance, can be commended for this. So you have to see the other side. And if you're talking about setting the bridge on fire here, I don't know who's better off lighting that bridge from behind, either Mart Helmel or the opposition. This bridge won't burn. I see that the curve of the bridge has been crossed and the bridge is being built to the other shore.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U9	Thank you. It is possible to ask an additional question from the floor. My colleague, Taavi Rõivas, has registered. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U10	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! It's been going on for a long time now that people hope and believe that at some point the EKRE is no longer EKRE, they're changing. First it was believed that if EKRE became a government party, they would change. It was further believed that when the bitter time of the European Parliament's campaign was over, they would change. We saw here on Monday that they have not become an ounce more rapid than at all, even more in violation of norms or destructive political culture. What we saw here on Monday was no longer rhetorical or verbal. It was a lie at least four or five times, including you. It was a real lie right here at the Riigikogu's speech desk. We saw the threatening of the members of the Riigikogu: Mart Helme said something like this: do not want my words to come true. I would like to ask you about something that I find to be completely unprecedented. Mart Helme, who as Minister of the Interior also has access to information on ongoing criminal cases, first announced from this remote control that there is no such case. He imperviously, clearly said no. A little later, he admitted that there was a criminal case, but it's been blown out, and it's failed. At the same time, thanks to public data, we know that the conclusions on whether or not this criminal case is going forward will only be drawn by Midsummer Day. Do you consider it appropriate that a person who, as a member of the government, has access to certain sensitive information so publicly distributes it and makes such assessments?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U11	Thank you. Good Javier, let's get out of here! I can see that this cooperation is for the better. I'm going to say this sincerely. I know the parties' statements before the election campaign, right after that, and now. I see three political parties at government meetings, at various meetings, also at cabinet meetings. I dare say that there all the ministers of EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party take their field very seriously, want to take it forward and thus move life forward in Estonia. Now, this motion of distrust on Monday. Well, it's a very complicated form, but that's the policy. One person answers and protects himself, 30 or 40 or 45 people ask questions, and you need to be ready for all kinds of questions. That is how we have agreed in this country. It is certainly difficult to be in government for the first time and to come here after a rather short term of office, for those who have mistrust, it is, of course, difficult, even humanly difficult. As for lying about me, which you have pointed out several times, I was not in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, but I know that the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, said that yes, he was wrong in his original comment or how many of them he gave before, and he apologizes for that. Of course, we're talking about being on the phone and talking along. As far as I know, he corrected his position during this mistrust discussion. You also talked about the ongoing case and information about it. To me, Mart Helme has told me several times that he does not ask that he will not intervene in any way, that no step is taken in connection with this procedure. And that's the way it's supposed to be. And I think this overconfirmation that he's not gonna do it shows that he's taking it very seriously. Research bodies can do their own work for which they have been invited. I understand the question was also that he said that there was no criminal case, but then the conversation went a little further and it turned out that it was still initiated. I don't know if it was a glitch, if it was some kind of a different understanding, but it's clear that criminal proceedings are in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U12	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U13	The next question comes again to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, by colleague Taavi Rõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U14	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! First of all, at the end of this previous issue: I do not believe that if someone at the top of the Riigikogu is humanly difficult, then the most logical solution is to start threatening or lying or abusive. And as far as this case is concerned, it seems to me that Mart Helme either deliberately or unintentionally lied to you even when he said he wouldn't interfere at all. If he publicly declared this criminal case to be a failure here in front of all of us, I think it was a completely inappropriate statement to the Minister of the Interior. Neither the Minister of the Interior nor the Prime Minister can declare any of the criminal cases in progress to be a failure, especially when it concerns a party partner. But let's talk about the RES. The state's budget strategy has now also been made available to the public and members of the Riigikogu. I discovered a very interesting thing. In particular, between 2021, 2022 and 2023, financial vessels will arrive in the state budget, bringing respectively EUR 100, EUR 300 and EUR 200 million. These are round numbers. And these money ships are called "Accounting the revenue of the new period of external resources." My question is: hasn't your colleague Martin Helme done with a little bluff or rather a big bluff? Indeed, the impact of all kinds of European funds on balance has also had to be taken into account in previous national budgetary strategies. And if it is not a bluff, you will certainly be able to say what are these projects or, at least, the areas behind these hundreds of millions of euros. So I would like to hear what the total amount of this EUR 600 million is. What is this money for?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U15	Thank you very much for your question, good Javier. Well, you made an introduction to your question again, touching on the previous subject. I think I gave you and Jevgeni Ossinovski adequate answers. If you want to return to this issue again, we can, of course, move on with these questions, but I wouldn't. Now, the country's budget strategy. You asked about a particular line that reflects the new period of external resources and the relevant numbers. In any case, I think it is right to take into account external resources from the new MFF. True, of course it is also associated with risk. We do not know how fast we can, let us say, start in the first few years how quickly we can come up with such projects. It's going to take a lot of preparatory work. I have briefly discussed with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure how much we can actually prepare projects. In the near future, we will have a meeting on how to take further steps. When we are talking about Tallinna-Narva, Tallinna-Tartu, Tallinna-Pärnu highway, it is known that the priority of the current coalition is to build these connections. At the same time, if we look at the state of the project's capacity, then from Mäo to Tartu we need to take a more active approach to both land ownership issues and projects. And I think we should consider completely why we are only building this road from Tallinn to Tartu, in the opposite direction, from Tartu to Tallinn. Some projects could be counterproductive. So if you ask whether the areas are precisely known or, I don't know which sections of the road, which educational or health and social expenditures are today to say exactly what expenditure is planned and how big the cover will come from there, it is practically impossible. But to predict the amounts of the new MFF also in the country's budgetary strategy is, in my opinion, very correct. I hope this will give all the ministries a signal that they actually need to be ready and take off now. As far as I know, seven years ago, or perhaps it can be said that eight or nine years ago, there was also a desire to launch as soon as possible when the year 2014 began.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U16	Thank you. The questioner would like to ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U17	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! These are completely different things that we are talking about right now. You say you want to adopt budgets and build you in the direction of Tartu or Pärnu or Narva, for example. But the money it takes to build roads cannot improve the budgetary position. It is perfectly logical and gratifying that activities are planned, but they are linked to both the cost side and the revenue side, and they do not improve the budgetary balance, they are rather aggravating. For most investments, national co-financing is also necessary, and for this to happen, there is a need to find coverage in the state budget. But I'm going to ask you very specifically. Currently, EUR 600 million is worth EUR 100, 300, 200 million each year to improve the fiscal position of the country. Aren't you afraid Martin Helme has played you a little trick? In fact, after that, it turns out that the use of external resources is not only a revenue side but also a cost side. Every euro we get from the European Union must be introduced somewhere. How has Martin Helme now presented this plan to you in such a way that we can take this money into our own account and use it instead to improve the budgetary position of the country? And don't you think these are a little too round numbers? Just when, in 2022, the state budget is minus the largest, we will receive 300 million from the European Union, which will improve the balance of the budget for every euro, rather than go to road construction, as you mentioned earlier. If these euros were to go to road construction, then there would be a cost side, too, and then that money would not improve the balance of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U18	Thank you. First of all, the cost side is there anyway! This is an own contribution and is incorporated into the country's budgetary strategy. It is estimated that if these amounts are the source of cover, it is clear that the own contribution must increase. What you are calling for today is virtually impossible: we cannot say exactly what projects are being launched for this money. Today's not the time, it's not ready right now. But, of course, this does not mean that we do not have to do serious preparatory work to use this money in these years. You asked why these sums were so round. Of course, the country's budgetary strategy is predictable, as is the state budget. And that was the best forecast we had in the office when we were doing the country's budget strategy with the authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U19	Thank you. One additional question can also be asked from the floor. The first pusher was colleague Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I can help you with a little bit. These 100, 200 and 300 million are a little trick from the Minister of Finance. They do not have to have a plus sign in front of them, but a minus sign is just confused. The National Audit Office audited the situation and by the beginning of the new period the ministries have planned activities that will actually reduce the volume of funding for the new period. There must be a minus sign. But I have a specific question about the country's budgetary strategy. Tallinn City Hall was the cornerstone of your strategic investment plan. It was supposed to be in the 2018 budget, then you couldn't do it, was a problem of the admissibility of state aid. The plan was postponed, said it was included in the 2019 budget. But there wasn't that money there, it was postponed again, it was supposed to be in the 2020 budget. If we unblock the new budget strategy, we will see that the city hall will not be there next year. It's been postponed again. I ask: how many more times can we see the delay of the city hall investment in the next few years?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U21	Thank you. I apologise now to the members of the Riigikogu who are here for the first time, but this question actually shows how sometimes the Question Time debate works out. In the previous composition, Mr Sõerid and I discussed more widely whether it would be reasonable or not to build a new conference and tourism centre from the city hall. And I remember that I had to convince Mr Sõerdi that this was reasonable from the point of view of the Estonian economy. From the point of view of Estonia's conference tourism, it is reasonable that major events take place here, which we are actually losing quite a bit to Riga or Finland. Now, in this composition, you are an even bigger supporter of the urban hall, Mr. Aivar Sõerd. I would say that this is a very great achievement, that we are now done with you and that we are really doing everything to move forward with the city hall, which is also an important economic object for Estonia, as MKM has said. Thank you for that. This shows that, in fact, Question Time debates can still lead to a common part, and that is excellent. Now, you're worried that this money distribution has been delayed. The reason is that the State aid authorisation has not yet been obtained. At the same time, we continue to see that in the country's budget strategy, the investment in the city hall is written by the state. True, at the end of the previous government term, a thought came up. It was, couldn't we think even bigger and build an opera hall there? It hasn't been decided, but I know it is an idea. All in all, however, we still have to take this into account, probably because of the European Charter for Local Government, you agree that we are based on the principle that local governments are independent. The city hall is on the balance sheet of the city of Tallinn. As far as I know, the city is willing to contribute a little more than 40 million. And it's nice for you to come and help with your fiscal analysis. And not only do I know very well that you have experience in managing the tourism sector, and therefore you are certainly worried about Tallinn hotels and the Estonian hotel sector at all, as well as the shipping sector. In this respect, I see an opportunity to work very closely with you in the next four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U22	Thank you. Since we agreed that it would be possible to ask a question from the floor, I will now stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U23	Let us move on to the next question, which also goes to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. The questioner is Mr Riina Sikkut. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good George! This Monday's publication of censure to the Minister of the Interior was still such an experience that we are probably talking about a large part of the Question Time on this subject. In your answers so far, you have said that going from opposition to coalition requires adaptation. Deal! The opposition wants to dismantle the coalition to enter the government. Deal! People can be wrong, they can change, rhetoric can change. Deal! But we're not really talking about these issues. We are talking specifically about the person of the Minister of the Interior and his suitability to hold his office. I think the best question was put by Mikhail Lotman on Monday. And now I quote: 'We imagine an emotionally overwhelmed person who constantly lies and accuses others of lying, who insults others, but accuses them of being insulted, who threatens others, but thinks that he is being threatened. Such behavior, perhaps sympathetic to a small child, is either a manifestation of incompetence or a manifestation of sociopathy in an adult person. ' And now I paraphrase the end of Lotman's question: do you trust such a hypothetical person to hold the office of hypothetical Minister of the Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U25	Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U26	Thank you. I did not understand whether this quote ended with this question or whether the quote ended before that question. [[Riina Sikkut answers from the floor.]] I read the record, too, and I understand who Mr. Lotman meant. There's no different game here. What I want to say is that, when you ask about the activities of the Minister for the Interior, in the very few weeks during which the government has been in office, the main subject of content that the Minister for the Interior has brought to the table has been the question of the border first. This concern, which is also expressed in the National Audit Office's audit of how we move forward with the construction of the border, is also very strongly present in his heart. As far as I know, the first outcome of the construction procurement should be at the beginning of July. We have agreed that this will be discussed again by the office in August at the latest. But it is clear that, by looking at the financial capacity on the one hand and at the rate at which we can move forward as a result of procurement, whether there are disputes or not, this is really a problem. And we've been over this at the office level. The second topic that was under discussion in the context of the RES was, in general, the issue of internal security. In recent years, I think we've done a lot to raise the pay of police and rescue officers. As I have said, at the moment, the country's budgetary strategy does not provide for wage increases in this sector. That's not possible right now. These have been issues concerning the activities of the Minister of the Interior. With regard to Mr Mikhail Lotman's question of whether such a person would be suitable for the Minister of the Interior, of course, I do not see any possibility that it would not be appropriate. But I can see where the catch is. You've now added a good hook here for the briefing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U27	Thank you. Mr Riina Sikkut has the opportunity to ask a further question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U28	I have read from your reply that a hypothetical person with these characteristics is suitable for a hypothetical State Minister for Home Affairs when he is deluding about the border issue. But the additional question is this. On Monday, in fact, very many questions were raised by the Minister of the Interior's immunity to the facts, very, very free to walk around with the truth, one might say, lying. The Minister of the Interior himself confirmed that everyone could be wrong. Misleading isn't lying. Indeed, everyone can be wrong, and error is not lying, in your judgment. Now, if it is not a hypothetical person and a hypothetical country, how many times per hour may the Minister of the Interior be wrong in order for him to remain credible and suitable for his office?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U29	Thank you. It seems to me that you have to distrust me. Then I can be there myself and answer the questions. I haven't read the verbogram all over this day. I think it's really a general principle that we can all be wrong, and being wrong is human if you admit it and say that here I made a mistake. I think that's what Mart Helme did, answering a very specific question that was asked several times in this Chamber. He finally said he was sorry that he remembered it differently. He corrected himself. I don't know what you want now. Do I have to tell you how many times I might be wrong in Question Time? For example, in two hours x times and in four hours y times? There are no such answers. I think we need to make an effort to ensure that if we do not know any answers, we say that there is no information at the moment. It is always possible for members of the government to send specific information to members of the Riigikogu later. I've used it many times, too. That makes sense. Of course, I don't think you should lie about lying. It's not part of our job.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U30	Thank you. An additional question from the floor is the registration of my colleague Uno Kaskpeit. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U31	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! It's a shame to listen to this squealing around here by the company that has destroyed the Estonian state for 17 years. You can't trust them. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U32	Thank you! First of all, I do not agree with any of the parties' arguments, nor do I agree with the criticisms made by the current opposition towards the coalition or by the current coalition towards the opposition that someone has destroyed this country. I think everyone's done their best they've been able to do in this space and time. When it comes to the Reform Party, it is clear that I personally have a wide range of fundamental views, including those of the world, compared to them. But that does not mean that, in my opinion, the Social Democrats or the Reform Party have destroyed this country. Well, I guess this 17 years would have been, well, it's kind of hypothetical to have made a lot of different decisions. I think it was certainly not always the right direction on certain issues at the time. But that was the result of the election, the supreme authority wanted. On the other hand, parties have always needed the capacity and the ability to agree. True, the Centre Party, my party was, when calculated from 2002, in this 17 years, very long opposition. We have been in the coalition for five and a half years, two and a half of them without the Reform Party and about three years with the Reform Party: 2002 to 2003 and 2005 to 2007.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U33	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U34	Let's go to the next question. It goes to Mr Aavi Asa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and the questioner is Mr Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The purchase of three or four new trains for Elron has been on the agenda a long time ago. This need is known and the decision of the government has long been awaited by Elron's leadership. There have already been preparations to purchase these trains. But this investment of trains did not reach the national budget strategy. There is also a reason: there was no money. And since there was no money, it was not discussed further. Now, a week after the country's budget strategy has been completed, you have found a source of money for this. Yesterday you said that we could talk about the sale of quotas for the statistical economy. As far as I have been able to explain this matter today, the additional money from the rise in the price of the CO2 quota that the state is making is already included in the RES. So it can't be. As far as I understand, this sale of the quota for the statistical economy is linked to the further burning of biomass in the power plants of Eesti Energia. Would you be so kind as to explain this source of money for the purchase of trains linked to the sale of the quota for the statistical economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U36	Please, Minister Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U37	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I will begin by stating that the purchase of trains was not discussed further. In fact, this was discussed at length during the preparation of the strategy, and quite several times. Indeed, it was found to be a project aimed at developing environmentally friendly modes of movement. And from this sale of CO2 quotas, Estonia is able to obtain quite a significant resource. Part of this resource is freely used, part of it is used specifically for the implementation of green projects. The experts explained whether these green projects could be used to purchase trains. And since it has been decided to acquire hybrid trains this time, it was found that this would indeed be the way the project could be financed. In fact, our budgetary strategy does not take into account the projects that could be carried out by selling CO2 quotas. These discussions are, in fact, still ahead of us. But since the trains were briefly touched, I dared to suggest that one of the nearest cabinet sessions could discuss this issue and make a possible decision if all partners agree. That would be the start of a call for tender. Unfortunately, trains take a few good years to get on their line from the decision. But indeed, train traffic is extremely popular in Estonia. You have all heard of its problems and the only possible way to ensure that people have more room on trains to use even more trains is to acquire additional formations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U38	Thank you. My colleague Aivar Sõerd, an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When I looked at the role of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the budget strategy, I noted the financing of local roads in the area of road financing. This year it will be 51 million, next year it will be 34 million and beyond, and in the coming years it will be further reduced. I don't understand it. There is no money left to finance local roads so that it can be taken away from there. There's money missing. How do you explain the reduction in funding for local roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U40	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U41	Thank you. We all know that one funding period for the European Union is coming to an end, the other has not yet begun. It was already said in relation to one of the previous questions that certain instruments have been planned, but they have not been divided between the ministries. And if you ask why the 34 million became 29 million, it is because the European Union's funding has decreased. 29 million is the basic amount allocated to municipalities for local roads. I very much hope that future budgeting will provide an opportunity for this basic facility to increase the 29 million that the municipalities have repeatedly asked for. I have to admit that I have written myself a letter as head of the local governments that this funding should be increased. I've received this letter, but the budget options are exactly what they are. I hope that they will improve in the future and that we can really satisfy the wishes of the local authorities. And I also hope that when our specific opportunities for additional European resources are revealed, there will also be plenty of these resources for local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U42	Thank you. Question about the floor. Colleague Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Wheelers are being pushed out of the train right now. You said more people have to fit on the train. I was wondering if people wouldn't ride the bike. Such a negative attitude towards this target group has never been before. I do not understand the purpose for which these wheel-holding places are available on trains, even if they do not allow a train on a bike at certain times or on certain days of the week. I hope you will at least review this ban. If it is technically stipulated that a train must be accessible on wheels, it should be possible to do so at any time of the day. But my question comes from a completely different area. It's about the fast internet. It has always been said that high-speed connections are important, including internet access. But Elektrilevi, who now has to invest and build this network, is playing a sad game with some municipalities in South Estonia. I am trying to understand this regional policy that, at the beginning, when South Estonia, including Elva, was promised very clearly fast network construction and investments, it now turns out that in the first stage most work is done in Harjumaa and elsewhere in Northern Estonia. Is that part of regional policy? How can we still believe those official representatives who go along local authorities and allow certain things to be done by certain municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U44	Thank you. Good questioner! There were now two issues on which I must say that one matter concerned my area of responsibility or my area of responsibility, the other, unfortunately, is not my area of responsibility. You should wait for the moment when another minister comes to the Chamber from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and he will certainly be able to answer you exhaustively. I wouldn't want to go into his business in any way. Surely he is much more competent than I to answer these questions just not my area of expertise. But when it comes to trains and wheels, there's probably no one who's happy with the decision Elron made. But there were probably very few people who knew how much train availability in Estonia would increase when these trains were bought. Once again, there is no other solution to this problem than to purchase additional train formations and, of course, to try to make it more convenient for both wagon and bicycle users to use trains. In fact, there is another way to solve this issue. I think it would also be wise to review the way in which the bike rental works in Estonia. Unfortunately, bike rental points did not work well in Tallinn; there was not much usability. But I'm sure you should look at the bike rentals at the railway stations. This theme so acutely raised shows that it is one way to help people who would like to use the train and the bike to move.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U45	Thank you. We will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U46	The next question comes again to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, which is presented by my colleague, Mr Raik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U47	Good President! Prime Minister! Good George, may I address you in your uniform? I wanted to congratulate you on being a good team player. As a beginner's minister, I received a lot of support from you, and I will always remember it in a good word. I was very surprised that you weren't here the night before yesterday to support the new Home Secretary Mart Helme. I also planned to ask today whether Mart Helme would be a Minister of the Interior and, in fact, whether I have understood correctly that there will be no military border guard. But today I have to ask you about energy instead. We all know that one company has sent 1300 people on forced leave. It's a beautiful summer time, but autumn's coming soon. We also know what the long-term perspective is. What do you say to me in response when I ask what happens to energy in the long term to oil plants, etc.? I'm not asking who's to blame. But I'm asking you what a specific plan is. What are the three concrete steps taken by the government to get the people of Ida-Viru County to work somewhere in September? There is no reason to think that a miracle will happen in the energy sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U48	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U49	Thank you. I'm telling you, Katri, it was nice working together. In my opinion, the few months that we spent working together were good cooperation. You went on to the very important Interior Department and security issues. Now from this remark that the Prime Minister was not in the Chamber at the time of the vote of distrust. I don't want it to stay in the air. I may be wrong, but I think that if someone gets mistrusted, the Prime Minister doesn't usually sit in this government box. It's always possible to sit here, but it's not a sign that he supports mistrust or doesn't. Of course, I didn't support this motion of distrust. You said you weren't gonna ask about the military border guard, but you brought it up. Well, if you marked it, I'll answer. We have agreed that we really want to strengthen some of the areas managed by the PBGB. One direction is the stronger, better training of border guards at the National Defence Academy. You know this area better than I do 10 times, but 20 to 30 times. On the other hand, we consider it important to create a voluntary reserve. These are the areas that are listed in the coalition agreement. Now, coming to Ida-Virumaa, I think first of all that this is a very serious moment when we all have to think about this problem here in Estonia. We need to understand that the production of oil shale electricity, either way, must decrease and decrease. I dare say that the direction to reduce the use of fossil fuels is in the right direction. The focus of your question is more of a socio-economic impact: what happens to these people, what happens to these households, how these people manage. There's no way to put that aside. I have met representatives of the trade unions of both Eesti Energia and energetics. What can these three steps be? I think we need to really think about what we're still doing with these boilers, these blocks, in the near future. After all, a strategic reserve must be provided as an essential element of security, which would guarantee Estonia's energy supply. On the other hand, you mentioned oil plants too. I think we could go on with the oil shale refining plant on the one hand, and oil shale oil production on the other. It cannot be said that none of these solutions are on the table. And fourthly, I think that everything must be done to stimulate and motivate the development of industrial parks, which is also part of the Ida-Viru programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U50	Thank you. Mr Raik, an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U51	Thank you. I'm asking you if one of the concrete steps I'm proposing would get your support. If a specific part of the resource, pollution and environmental charges in the order of 20 million would go back to Ida-Virumaa if such a law were to be made, so that it would enable entrepreneurship to be supported in such a way as to take business out of Tallinn and Harjumaa to Ida-Virumaa, would it find your support? I understand that the counter-argument is immediately that environmental sums should not be allocated to Saaremaa or South Estonia. But if this were to be done in such a way that environmental investments in other areas of Estonia, which make our lives more beautiful, would be preserved, and in Ida-Viru County would receive a certain amount of environmental, pollution and resource charges? Two thirds of these fees are essentially received from Ida-Viru County. The money would go back home.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U52	Ida-Virumaa's programme has been one of the major goals or the idea has been that if we use a resource there and that resource is paid for, it is because the living environment there is deteriorating that the money should be used there. You asked very specifically that if such a change were made and 20 million were allocated, either I would support it or I would not support it. I'm sure I think it's the right thing to do. But it is clearly linked to the state budget and the state budget strategy, so it is very difficult to answer today. The principle is sweet and fair and right: Ida-Virumaa should be compensated for what has been done to make it worse. To what extent, this must be discussed, bearing in mind, of course, the possibilities available to the state budget. I do not believe that any previous coalition has opposed this principle. Neither was the coalition of the Socialists, the Fatherland and the Centre Party against it. It was simply a question of how this task could be solved in the state budget, and we could not solve it. True, we were able to allocate more resources to the Ida-Virumaa programme, and I think that is correct. I think you need to keep this direction. I know that the Minister of Public Administration wants to move forward with the Ida-Virumaa programme and strengthen it, including its financial capacity. Now those jobs. We still have to consider that if we take the miners, they are very specific jobs. We must also consider that the oil shale refining plant takes four, five, six, or seven years. We need better technologies to make even more oil out of oil shale, but it'll take x years. Now it is actually important that we manage to keep the miners somehow, that at one point, when there is a need to produce something from oil shale again, and produce more valuablely than now, when most oil shale goes to produce electricity, they would be there. I think we need to keep these good people safe. That, too, must be taken into account. Put everything, I don't know, into re-training, into the second field, I think it's a lot easier on paper than it is in real life. And we also need to take into account the level of pay for these people, which is certainly much higher in Ida-Viru County than in other areas there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U53	Thank you. Additional question from the floor. Colleagues Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U54	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! My question concerns the Child Services Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I don't expect you to be able to answer that right now, but I want to mark it. And all of a sudden, thanks to the discussion on these issues in the government office, you're still up to speed. Today, the Minister of Social Affairs in the Committee on Social Affairs spoke about the country's budgetary strategy, which concerns both the social and health sectors, and he also spoke about changes concerning the organisation of work. A large number of questions raised by the members of the Commission concerned the children's department. The Department of Children and Families, which was set up in 2010 and started to work perfectly, is planned to be dissolved in connection with the start of the employment of the Minister of Population. This means that a part remains under the Ministry of Social Affairs, a part goes under the Minister of Population and a part goes under the Ministry of the Interior. The latter concerns young offenders and other areas of police work. Consider this change very seriously, because the competence in this department is great. And it is not conceivable that children's benefits and other so-called healthy children's issues go under the Minister of Population, and the Ministry of Social Affairs cares about children with special needs. Consider this very seriously! Maybe you'll answer if that's the plan, if it's a plan, or if it's a decision already made and taken? I am conveying here the concerns of people in the social field, in the field of child protection. And this also arose as a concern in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U55	Thank you, good Helmen! The answer is that since the new coalition's decision has created the position of Minister of Population of the Ministry of the Interior, it is true that the work of this department will be changed. This agreement, which the Minister of Social Affairs told you about in the Commission, I understand that this was the case, is basically there. I can't say the exact proportions, but I think that roughly one third of this department is moving under the Home Office. I have heard that this is two or three posts that ministers have been debating. I also know that it is extremely important in this area that people know their area very well. At the same time, I cannot decide for any person whether he wants to move along, whether or not he thinks this new structure is right. But, as far as I know, there has been a wish that those specific people who are currently doing this job at the Ministry of Social Affairs would head to the Minister of Population. Whether it happens or not, it's up to every human being. It is clear that any restructuring can and will certainly raise a number of issues. I hope that this solution, this clarity will come as soon as possible. In any case, I will take this issue with me from here, but I will say that a fundamental decision has been made. I know that ministers have met several times to discuss this amendment. It must all be as painless as possible. As you said, one part goes to one ministry and the other to another. Make sure no one gets between two haystacks or between two chairs. Of course it's important. But thank you for your attention. I will certainly take this issue with me and pass it on to the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U56	Thank you. This question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U57	The next question comes again to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, by colleague Valdo Randpere. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U58	Thank you. Good George! On April 29th at 12:00, a phone call was received from your office. At that time you, Mart and Martin Helme and Marti Kuusik were in the cabinet. At first, I think everyone had been in the office, and you, too, were proud of this speech and pleased with the outcome. One of you told the journalists about this, perhaps you told them all, and it got out to the public. The public response was super negative and scared you. You, in particular, quickly distanced yourself from what happened, and that was your version of what happened the next day. I'm quoting the Kuku radio now. Timo Tarve asks: "Is it true that you made a call to Marti Kuusik's alleged victim, ex-husband, right there in the office? " Jüri Ratas answers: " No, I didn't take that call. It was taken by Marti Kuusik on his own initiative, and it is true. I did not take part in this call by asking or answering. ' That's where it stayed until the day before yesterday, when there was a mistrust in this room for one of the people who was in that speech, the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. The speech came up as well, and Mart Helme's attitude toward it. Mart Helme answered this question: "This telephone call was born by a joint decision of this group, and these questions were asked not by Marti Kuusik, but by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia [... ]. That's right. But he didn't ask the kind of questions you say here, but he did it in a much softer, politeer tone. Because, you see, you should know Jüri Ratas better than I do and you know that Jüri Ratas is always correct, polite, respectful on the other hand. So the questions you quoted to us were not on the agenda at all. I was there and I know what I'm talking about. You weren't, and you're just doing slander right now. That's too bad. ' My question to you, George, is very simple. Which one of you is lying? Are you or Mart Helme?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U59	Thank you, Valdo! I'm asking you to keep reading that report on the mistrust procedure. You know very well that after that, your fellow official Kadri Simson asked a question on the subject, and I am sure others asked more than I can say by name. The Minister of the Interior, who was distrusted at that moment, said he was apologizing for remembering it wrong. So you don't just bring half the work on this table, you bring the whole thing! I understand that this speech was still on the table several times in this Chamber, and the Minister of the Interior said that yes, he was wrong, or that he is asking for an apology, I do not know exactly how he expressed himself, but basically he rejected his previous statement. When it comes to the substance of this question, I do not approve of such phone calls in any way; I do not think that they are right in a situation where one party, who is probably the victim, is under very clear attack. Really, as I said on Kuku's radio, today I say it wasn't my initiative. I came by when this call had already started, from the other room into that room. So I don't approve, I don't think it's right. As for Mart Helme, I understand it's very good to put Ratas and Helme in opposition. But you are well aware that the Minister of the Interior actually corrected his answer during the discussion of this motion of distrust and said he was wrong. Read it, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U60	Valdo Randpere, an additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U61	He didn't really correct, he said he might have misremembered. But let's keep going! Mart Laar has said about Mart Helme: "He is not only a useful idiot but also a pathological liar. " I generally agree with Mart Laar's assessment, yet I am prepared to believe this time that the so - called pathological liar is more than you. Mart Helme's description of what happened is too detailed to be another lie in his repertoire; rather, it was an emotionally bloated alpha male child's mouth that made him open up this time and gave the Riigikogu a chance to catch Mart Helme telling the truth. You, George, like to brag about your nursery and honesty over and over again. You also have a quote: 'Living is, I think, the biggest, say, a politician killer. You can't and you can never lie. " Yet, once upon a time, we have caught you lying. You lied before the election about not making a coalition with the EKRE, you lied about signing a science funding agreement, etc., etc. If Mart Helme keeps lying, you'll be a little less frequent, and only if you get the benefit of it. That's why I'm telling you honestly: I don't believe you! I think that Mart Helme was accidentally telling the truth in this particular case. But I'm asking you this. As a God - fearing person, are you willing, with your hand on the Bible, to swear that Mart Helme is lying and you are telling the truth? I happen to have with me both a Bible text and a written vow text, which I will bring to you as soon as you answer yes to my question. If you refuse this opportunity, it is also a clear answer to my question and my doubt.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U62	Good Valdo! It seems to me that you're going a little too far in your political game and your rhetorical. I'm sure you're not my teacher or my master or my director in any way to tell me what I have to say. I don't think you can bring the Bible and the nursery into your political rhetoric. I certainly don't approve. I think you're going a little too far.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U63	Question about the floor. Mr Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U64	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will also start by quoting the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme from the publication of mistrust on Monday. The quote begins: 'No, well, it's actually great, because the opposition is doing its job. But, as I said to Mr Lotman, the time of this political style, where everyone was cute and wiggy, I am also tied, but I may be wearing a tie as a certain relic, is over. We live in a completely different time, with a different political style. I am not afraid to say that Estonian politics also needs this other political style, needs sharpness, needs a resurrection, maybe needs some shock. You know what I'm saying: I couldn't have imagined that I had some actress blood in me before I came into politics. But now it turns out I have a little bit of it in me. Think of it as a certain show from me! ' My question is: how good do you think Mart Helme is and do you think that running the Estonian state is an act?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U65	Thank you. How good an actor one or the other is, everyone can see right through their eyes. I don't know if he's gonna do some kind of act and sell tickets. So on this point, good Kalle, the content of the question is not, it is such a rhetorical question. I'm gonna owe you an answer if I have to appreciate somebody's actorism. I'd rather listen to your expertise on this matter. You saw it a little longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U66	This issue, too, is now closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U67	Next question. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas can answer again and the questioner is colleague Sven Mikser. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U68	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! Unfortunately, one more quote from Monday needs to be repeated. Listen carefully! Mart Helme says in response to Vilja Toomast: 'This phone call was made by a joint decision of this group, and these questions were asked not by Marti Kuusik, but by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia [... ]. That's right. But he didn't ask the kind of questions you say here, but he did it in a much softer, politeer tone. Because, you see, you should know Jüri Ratas better than I do and you know that Jüri Ratas is always correct, polite, respectful on the other hand. So the questions you quoted to us were not on the agenda at all. I was there and I know what I'm talking about. ' And a little later, as Kadri Simson's proofreading or as a point of attention, that Jüri Ratas didn't participate in anything but as a listener, Mart Helme says: 'It was such a very emotional moment, everyone was very heated up, the scandal was massive. [---] I remembered it somewhat differently, but all right. " When it comes to misremembering, it is really remembered not only that someone spoke something, but in very detail about courtesy, regularity, respect on the other hand, the personal style of Jüri Ratas. Unlike Valdo Randpere, it seems to me that this was an informed attempt by the Minister of your government to mislead the legislator, in other words, to lie to Parliament. And I ask you now: do you still have full confidence in the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, who tried to lie to Parliament about you? It should be possible to answer the question yes or no.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U69	Thank you. I'm not as big a wordsmith as you, Mr. Sven Mikser. Well, you're also good, you're reading the verbatim from the text. I guess I'm not wrong either. His answer to the following questions in this context was, as far as I know, something like this: "Probably I was wrong and apologizing to Jüri. '
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U70	Sven Mikser, an additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U71	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! Since there has been a great deal of confusion on this subject and to assess not only the suitability of Mart Helme for his office, but also the suitability of you as Prime Minister for your office, I would like to say that the picture of four ministers or those who are about to enter the ministerial office sitting around the phone to cross-examine the alleged victim of the crime is rather appalling. And I think we need to know who proposed to call Marti Kuusik's ex-husband. Who was that person? Mart Helme claims that it was not Marti Kuusik, and later claims that it was probably not then Jüri Ratas, although he remembers in great detail the style of questioning Jüri Ratas. Who, then, was the person who asked questions to the alleged victim of this incident? And how did you, I don't mean to say, this gang, I say, as the supposed moral leader of this society, allow something like this to happen in your presence?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U72	Thank you. As I described, when I walked into this room, this speech had already begun. It's kind of hard to imagine how I should have stopped this speech. So much I want to tell you, yes, I don't think it's right. But it had begun when I walked into that room, and I wasn't there when that call was made. That's right. But I will stick to my words: I think such a speech should not have been, I think it was not right. If you ask who asked the questions during this speech, I think that if this investigation is going to be so detailed, then maybe the investigating authorities will have to investigate who asked the questions. Like I said, I wasn't in the conversation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U73	Question from the floor, Mr Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U74	I'm gonna have to help a colleague. The question was who asked the questions. You cannot answer that clearly, and that is the problem. I would like you to answer that question. If you notice, the members of the Estonian Parliament will read the quotes on a massive basis in order not to be mistaken. I suggest you read the verbatim report on what happened here, and not once, but several times. The Minister of the Republic of Estonia tells Members that you do not want my words to be fulfilled or that I will do what I say. They're trying to make it look like the election ad announced in a pre-recorded radio broadcast on a prohibited day was a coincidence. But they're lying about it because it turns out later that it actually sounds clear on a live-in show that today is election day and come all the way to pick an EKRE. This moral level has fallen to a very low level. As a result, it is quite difficult to hear certain statements made by the honourable Prime Minister. Prime Minister: who asked questions during this immoral speech? And do you think it is right to threaten the members of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia from this panel?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U75	Thank you. Definitely threatening isn't the right point 1. Point 2 is that I think the Minister of the Interior gave his explanation for this Tre Radio Sunday show. He said they were wrong, they were wrong. Thirdly, who asked the questions: as I said, I did not participate in the conversation with the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U76	Thank you. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U77	The next questioner is my colleague, Urve Tiidus, and the question goes again to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Dear George Ratas! The government you run is in the middle of the sixth working week. It makes some sense that, in such a short time, there will be no big job wins that would please all 1.3 million people, as you intend to emphasise. Yet society's expectations are high. Last week, in this very briefing, you announced that there will be no increase in the salaries of the savers of the state budget, police officers, cultural staff and teachers with higher education for the coming year. It is no secret that the labour market situation makes the future so uncertain for quite a number of occupations. A competitive pay perspective would be one way of adding optimism and also influencing the career choices of the younger generation. As head of government in the previous government, and also in the current government, you had and have one of the most important goals: achieving results for the people and the country. The prerequisite for all of this is that the leader is result-oriented. Today, at 12 noon, a demonstration on research funding began here, and that is why I am quoting for a change one of the world's most influential visionaries, named Steve Jobs. When asked what distinguishes the leader from the follower, the questioner answered: "Innovation distinguishes the leader from the follower. " If you interpret this Jobs response, innovation means both creative and innovative attitudes to everything. Can you give an example, please, of where you or your team have been or are planning to be truly innovative, for example, in funding science or in some other area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U79	Thank you. First of all, about the level of pay in the area of internal security that you talked about. I just had a meeting yesterday with some of the Rescue Board's leaders and other rescue officers, as well as with the police and border guards. The representatives of the Rescue Board said that wage growth, which has been at different levels in 2019, has been different. The pay of emergency officers working on the front line has risen by up to 20 to 23%. What I know is that in smaller places, the increase in the pay of rescue officers has been even more than 20%. This has certainly been a very necessary step. The average wage has reached over EUR 1000. The fact that we do not see wage growth in the next four years is a concern. And that's the danger. As you said, in internal security, we can see that many people are already leaving because of their age and we want young people to be there for sure. There should be more competition and pay is one input that we need to be able to keep up with the times when we pay. Now that you are asking about an innovative approach, I believe that in the good sense of Estonia, the crown jewel has been the whole digital society that we have developed. The steps that we have taken in developing artificial intelligence in cooperation with other countries, the steps that are linked to the cybersecurity field, all of which could continue to be the direction of Estonia's progress towards innovation. You also asked about the R &amp; D agreement. As you know, no one has canceled this goal or said that this 1% is not our wish. Of course that's what we want. We simply need to build on where we were with our budgetary expertise in December 2018 and where we were with this knowledge in April 2019. They differed around EUR 1 billion or slightly more. It's about the state's ability. Certainly, in the next state budget process, this objective needs to be re-examined.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U80	Thank you. Question about the floor. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U81	Thank you. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! When it comes to the role of head of government, the Prime Minister must be responsible for the ethics and morals that are honored among the members of the government. I am not speaking directly against or for the political beliefs of one party or another. I think there's a certain image, a certain moral that everyone has to adhere to. I can't imagine you driving around Europe and the rest of the world and allowing everything to come together on the first round, and the next round you take back your words, or you keep saying that I don't remember, I was wrong, that's actually wrong. Do you acknowledge that this is a problem for the current government and for your coalition partner? Isn't it? Those lies from the remote that came out at the time of the publication of mistrust in this Chamber became more than they knew to write in a motion of mistrust. Do you admit that this is a problem, or do you see no problem at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U82	You have usually asked your questions quite clearly and clearly. Now you're talking, I understand, about the science deal, then about driving around Europe, and then you're talking about the lies that sounded on the remote. You put everything together exactly as you like to ask a question. Distrust was revealed. There was a statement by the Minister of the Interior about that phone call that the Prime Minister asked questions. The hearing went on and he said he was sorry that he was wrong about it and corrected his claim. As I said in answer to Riina Sikkut's question: I think that all lying is bad, it cannot be tolerated, and if we are wrong, we must correct ourselves. There's been talk about a science deal here. It was signed by all parties except the EKRE. And I don't know any political parties today who wouldn't want to reach 1%. I understand that for the opposition, it is very nice to use this lump: to say that you see, there is no money. It was only here in Sõerd and Kõiva that said that the country's budget strategy was wrong, that the wrong amounts had been written in to achieve a structural balance. You say we have to put more money into science. If we want to reach 1% in three years, no matter how we calculate it, that means hundreds of millions. The current government coalition found that we are not reducing R &amp; D spending, we have put EUR 152 million in it. And that's in a situation where all positions actually need to be saved. We agreed, I think, for the first time at government level on such a principle. It is understandable that we are not reducing defence and security costs, we are keeping a 2% line or even a gram above it. I also believe that the government's decision not to save on R &amp; D and to increase this amount in order not to reduce the percentage of GDP is very important. This is a very fundamental message for the field of research and development.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U83	Thank you. My colleague Urve Tiidus, an additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U84	Thank you. To continue with my first question, I ask you that Estonian media publications have also added a message to the news stream about your participation in an international non-governmental meeting, the so-called Bilderberg Group meeting in Switzerland. The debates that take place there are known to be attended by numerous prominent political, scientific and financial people. As the head of Estonian government, did you have anything to say about this meeting that would benefit the future of Estonia or also the cooperation of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U85	Thank you for that question. Yes, I was honored to attend the second consecutive Bilderberg group meeting in Switzerland. I think I've been able to put a lot of use behind this meeting. On the one hand, I refer to the high quality of the debates in panels with different content. After all, this is public information, which is the topics that are being discussed all over the world: whether it be cybersecurity, whether it be artificial intelligence, be it Brexit or security issues. So I'm sure it gave me a lot more. If you ask if it gave anything to the whole of Estonia, then I think the answer is yes. These meetings will be attended, as you rightly said, by people in very different areas. There are both former and current Heads of State, members of different national parliaments. This provides a good opportunity to strengthen the transatlantic link in Europe, which is actually very important. I am pleased that there were quite a number of companies there this year dealing with the cyber sector, which is engaged in start-up entrepreneurship. Two-sided contacts were quite well established. There were also members of governments from different countries, not just leaders of governments. So I think that this was a very important meeting from the perspective of Estonia's foreign and defence policy, views and future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U86	Thank you. This issue has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U87	The next questioner is my colleague, Marko Mihkelson, and the Prime Minister of the Republic has the opportunity to respond again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U88	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! This week is indisputably important for Estonian foreign policy. As you also mentioned at the beginning of Question Time, in two days' time, it will be clear whether or not Estonia will become a temporary member of the UN Security Council for the period from 2020 to 2021. The campaign has been thorough and many have contributed to it, including you. We hope that it will do well and that our diplomats will have an excellent experience, representing Estonia in this forum on influencing world politics. Estonia's international success has so far been guaranteed by a consensus-aspiring foreign and security policy that consistently cares about the values of liberal democracy and guarantees Estonia's future. In the last few weeks, you have had to overconfirm on many occasions that the extreme right government you led will not change the country's foreign policy course. However, President Kersti Kaljulaid said in an interview given to the Estonian Päevaleht on 20 May: 'I do not believe that this government is not a threat to our foreign policy course and our allied relations. ' Prime Minister! Why do you think our president had to make such a statement? And how would you prove that this course doesn't change?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U89	Thank you for this question. First of all, coming to the beginning of the question: I fully agree that over long years Estonia will face a serious challenge on 7 June. We hope that we are doing well, but the competitor is also credible and certainly very influential and strong in foreign policy. I agree that as much has been done in Estonia for this purpose at the level of the Riigikogu, at the level of officials, at the level of the President and at the level of members of the government, as much as it has been possible to campaign for a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, taking into account the national purse. I really hope we're doing okay. However, I do not agree with what you said about the political axis of the Estonian Government. We have two conservative political parties and one liberal party in the government. That's the axis. You like to say, of course, that this axis is extreme right. And I think you'll be very happy if the media often writes about it. No, this is not an extreme right-wing government, it is certainly not! There is a party with liberal values from the Centre Party and two parties with conservative values. A political compromise has to be found between them, a coalition agreement has to be concluded and an action plan has to be drawn up. As far as the President's interview is concerned, where he said that our foreign or security policy may change direction in some way and may pose a threat to the state, this direction will not change. You're asking how I can guarantee that. I guarantee you by what I do. The government will guarantee it by what we have written in the coalition agreement. We guarantee this in bilateral meetings. After all, it is common practice that once the new government has begun its term of office, its partners will be informed of the state's foreign policy and defence policy. I also met many people from the United States as part of this Bilderberg group meeting. I said that Estonia will continue to contribute 2% of GDP and even more. It was accepted very positively. As we know, there are very few countries in NATO that contribute 2% or more to the defence budget. In 2018, as far as I know, there were seven or eight of these countries. I also confirmed these plans to the NATO Secretary-General, as well as to the President of the European Commission and the President of the Council. I confirmed that Estonia is holding its pro-European line. And that's what matters. I have also said this to foreign ambassadors residing in Estonia. This is the action that I will guarantee in any case. And this action will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U90	Thank you. Mr Mihkelson, an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U91	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! You have often tried to convince the audience, including in this Chamber, that one of the most important goals of your current government is to ensure social cohesion and equal opportunities. ERR journalist Toomas Sildam, in his commentary last Sunday, pointed out that on the website of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs it has been said about the campaign to become a member of the UN Security Council that Estonia is firmly convinced that a person has the right to respect and dignity. However, your government failed to join the United Kingdom's initiative with 53 state-supported statements for the protection of sexual minorities. Neither the Minister for Foreign Affairs nor you have explained so far why a government that attaches such importance to human rights, social cohesion and value base made such a decision. Unfortunately, this has not been explained to us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs either. I will give you an opportunity to explain to the public why your government did so in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U92	Thank you. I still believe that we must tolerate all minorities in our society. No one must be rejected, no one must be intimidated, no one must be discredited. If you want to know the answer to this question, I think it is right that the Committee on Foreign Affairs invites the Foreign Minister to its meeting. He can explain. Other members of the government, including the Prime Minister, may, of course, be present.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U93	Thank you. Question about the floor. Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U94	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! Indeed, the subject of the question is 'Estonian Trends'. And the trends that Marko Mihkelson was talking about are worrying. Several national trends are also worrying. The constant wrestling of ministers, including the Prime Minister, in the Chair of the Riigikogu is perhaps of greatest concern. You've done it today, too. You refused to answer a clear question from both myself and Mr Kruus, who then asked Marti Kuusik's ex-wife. Since we have heard conflicting statements from various ministers on this matter, this would require clarification. But you added something really strange. You said that anyone who asked these questions should be answered by an investigation. From public sources, or the press, I knew that an investigation was initiated on the alleged case of domestic violence. Your answer shows that this phone call is also under investigation. Is that so, or have you tried to mislead us again? And if so, have you or, as far as you know, other members of the cabinet already been asked questions about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U95	Thank you. I've always appreciated, Sven, your kind at some point, I don't know, personalisation, and I would even say, maybe a little bitterness in my statements. But it's yours, isn't it? I don't know what the investigation is about, what the investigation is about. And don't read in my answers whether a phone call, a knock on the door, whether or not a letter is the subject of an investigation. Point 1. Point 2: You run into this hall, I can see in your body language, and I'm happy to ask you that question. But there's a family behind this. I think what our president said about giving this family peace... But no. I still need to ask who took part in the phone call that was asked, who asked. There was a victim and there was his ex-husband, as far as I know, de jure. I don't think all this is good for this family, for these kids, and for this victim, for this woman. You want to know who took part in this phone conversation. I told you I didn't approve. I didn't ask that lady any questions in that phone conversation. That call was taken from Marti Kuusik's phone. I very much ask that the Riigikogu also respect the privacy of this family.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U96	Thank you. The question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U97	The next question is also for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. My colleague Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! The strike of academic staff is taking place in front of the Riigikogu today. They are supported by the Estonian Academy of Sciences, the Estonian Young Sciences Academy, the Estonian Research Council's evaluation council and several other expert associations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U99	Colleagues, a little louder, please. Or closer to the microphone!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U100	George Ratas! On 19 December 2018, you signed a research agreement, the first point of which explicitly states that the signatories will support an increase in public funding for R &amp; D and innovation to 1% of gross domestic product and to maintain it at least at the same level. To this end, it was agreed that in 2019 the country's budgetary strategy would provide for an increase of equal amounts over the three-year period. Yesterday, we read in the media the words of Martin Helme, Minister of Finance of your government, that scientists get 1% when money starts to grow on trees. I have a suspicion that Martin Helme still has a tree that grows money on it. In particular, on pages 31 and 32 of the country's budget strategy, the aim is to increase the number of government employees massively. The starting level for workers in this sector is 11.9% of the working age population, with a target level of 17.7% in the coming years. This is 5.8% more, i.e. 6 000 to 1 000 million more employees. Why have you planned to increase the number of government employees? Where have you taken the money and what will they do? Why have you preferred the increase in the number of government employees to scientific funding? Why did you even make an uncovered promise and sign a science deal? After all, as Prime Minister, you were aware of the country's financial situation then and still today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U101	Dear Annely, you know how nice it was yesterday in Kihnu! Opening the rescue station, people were happy, the weather was beautiful, you have a beautiful neighborhood. I have answered that question, but of course I will answer it again. At the end of 2018, the state of public finances was not known. This situation was revealed in April this year. I understand that you have read some very specific place in the country's budget strategy, and I am certainly asking you to be given an answer on the number of officials. I'm not ready to comment on these percentages. But what can I say for sure? I can say that we have taken the course to move posts out of Tallinn. The target is about 1000 posts over four years. I think it's important. In the previous government, the aim was about 1000 posts, we were able to take them out to 600-700. It is becoming increasingly difficult to find institutions that can be taken out of Tallinn as a whole as possible. We must always consider whether a particular profession does not necessarily have to work in the capital. After all, most of the activities take place in Tallinn. But we still have this goal, and I think that good Estonian women and men are present in all counties. As regards the number of posts of public officials, I do not know that there is a trend towards increasing the number of posts and officials. On the contrary, the direction has been that we are trying to make the public sector effective. In the previous government, the goal was to cut the number of posts in all areas by 1% and one hat, I mean health care, I mean internal security, this cut was to be made in hospitals, the police, in the rescue area, I don't know, in the emergency centre. I want to confirm that neither the current government nor I support this direction, I do not consider it right. But to review how the state could operate more effectively, certainly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U102	Thank you. Mr Akkermann, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U103	Thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I, too, am very pleased to see Kihnu's rescue building completed. When I was a parish elder, I managed to sign a contract to buy this land and start a plan. It's such a joint success. You said a few minutes ago that no party would object to increasing the share of research money to 1% of GDP, but it is known that this agreement still lacks the signature of the EKRE. You also spoke of the need to find a political compromise between the Conservatives and the Liberals. Is non-fulfilment of the science treaty by you a compromise made by the Centre Party to keep the government going? Why do we have to believe that it is not the EKRE's desire not to go along with this that is behind the reduction from the content and timing of the scientific agreement? They haven't signed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U104	Thank you. I understand that here you can try to convince you how much, in the end, the political rhetoric of the opposition will still sound bad, everything is wrong and it seems that tomorrow will not be another day. Which, of course, isn't true. First of all, if you ask who to believe and how you can be convinced of one or the other, I have told you several times that we discussed the possibility of reaching 1% when drafting a country's budget strategy. I didn't see any coalition partners wanting to abandon this goal because it's not important. Secondly, it's a principle in the coalition agreement. I understand that every quote here is checked not with one glass, but with ten glasses, but if I remember correctly, when it was signed in Kadriorg, the EKRE did not say that they did not support this objective. As far as I know, they want this proportion to be even higher. I don't know if it was 2% or 3%, but at least at the coalition consultation and when discussing the country's budget strategy, no government member said they didn't want to reach 1%. That's my conviction. The truth is that, as Mr Kaskpeit also pointed out, your lovely and expensive home party Reform Party did not reach this point during the 17 years when they led the Estonian state. This percentage has been up and down in different years. In 2016, when the Reform Party was in the coalition until almost the end of the year, I remember that the share of public R &amp; D expenditure in GDP at one point was even less than 0.6%. The source is Statistics. I don't think it was the wish of the Reform Party to lower that percentage, certainly it was a desire to reach that 1%. But yes, it's very expensive. It is really very costly financially, but I think that the benefits are higher than the costs. Unfortunately, the existence of real resources must be taken into account in the public budget; the rule of balance must also be taken into account. These are the barriers that are preventing us from fulfilling this noble desire at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U105	Thank you. Question from the floor, Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U106	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I also think that if there is no money, there is no money. At the same time, the Riigikogu is celebrating a party during the plague, which means that it will create two more special committees with an annual cost of about 100000 per commission. This means a total of EUR 800000 over four years in a situation where, in fact, ordinary committees, i.e. the permanent committees of the Riigikogu, could deal with the topics that the special committees want to deal with, completely freely, either in their ordinary sessions or in extraordinary sessions. From my personal point of view, climate change is a very, very important issue and it would certainly deserve much greater coverage and discussion in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. But I really can't imagine that Riigikogu's Environment Committee could somehow miss this issue and be discussed in some sort of special committee. Coming back to the beginning of the story: when everyone cuts, everything has to be cut. It cannot be that the Riigikogu is simply rapping hundreds of thousands of euros to create a special position for some individual members of the Riigikogu. With this money, you could, for example, raise the pay of teachers, the pay of rescuers, channel this money to science, or open up the service of a house of sexually abused children. The opening of one such service house costs EUR 100000 per year. Such a house was not opened in Ida-Virumaa because it simply did not have EUR 100000. The following year, the plan was to open a house like this in Läänemaa. This is screaming injustice! If everyone has to tighten their belts, let the Riigikogu also exert itself and do not create two special committees. Why don't you talk to your coalition partners, your group in the Riigikogu, that really, it's obvious lure and injustice?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U107	Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U108	Thank you. First of all, I think that it is not very appropriate for the government to say where the belt of the Riigikogu should be tightened. These two committees, which you are talking about, I understand that they are in your teeth. On the one hand, it is the Estonian Language Commission and the other relates to population issues. If you claim that these committees are being made because someone will get a higher salary, I certainly do not agree with that. I know very clearly where the idea of setting up these committees came from, they were in the coalition talks. First of all, let's take the population board. This was also important to the previous government coalition, and the issue of population is really important, at least for the Centre Party. I think that the demographic question is one of our most fundamental questions: whether the population of Estonia is shrinking or increasing and if it is growing, whether it is thanks to the return migration and other immigration, as has been the case for the last three years. I think we all need to make an effort to ensure that our natural lives are also positive, so that our families are strong. So I think this focus is very correct. And that the Riigikogu can contribute here, I certainly welcome. Now, the question of Estonian. You, Mr. Balling, know very well that it has been a powerful political weapon on the one hand and, unfortunately, very often, I think, a negative weapon. True, someone has gained more votes with it, but someone else has received fewer votes because of it. But let's get into the problem for a second! The quality of Estonian language learning is not what we want in 2019. This is not what we hoped for in the early 1990s either. People's representatives can discuss how to raise this level, and not only by going out in the headlines, which date is the transition, and which date is the teaching in 100% Estonian, but also to deal with the content: what are the textbooks, what are the tools, what are the other educational materials, how are we able to raise this level in kindergarten, which is directly related to budget resources. I think it is very positive that the Riigikogu is ready to deal with this. And I cannot say in any way that this is the financial cost of members of a committee. No, it's not! You are suggesting that for this EUR 800000 you can raise one, two or three salaries. After all, you realise that even the increase in teachers' salaries versus EUR 800000 over four years cannot be compared; these amounts are so different in size.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U109	Thank you. This question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U110	The next question is again for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. My colleague, Maris Lauri, asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U111	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! The coherence of society is certainly very important. What worries me is that in your view, the lack of coherence is solely due to the opposition who wants power. And from here on out, it seems to me that you see everything through the prism of power. It is as if it is difficult for you to understand that the opposition in this hall and the people on the streets are actually thinking very seriously about Estonia and they are worried. I don't understand how you don't understand that there's a community in the government that's insulting, taunting and threatening everyone right now. Shouldn't the one who's the biggest breaker, perhaps your coalition partner, take the first step?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U112	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U113	Thank you, Maris Lauri. I sincerely want to say thank you for this very good question without any political rhetoric. I have not argued that the opposition's fundamental desire is to gain power. I have not said either that I am seeing through everything, I do not know, the political or the prism of power, as you said. I answered Riina Sikkut, saying that the opposition will certainly carry out two tasks. One is to draw attention to pains, concerns, and the other is to naturally get into the coalition. It's understandable. And that's no reproach at all. I think I've said before that, unfortunately, we're trying to make it look like another person's eye, but we don't see a log in our own eye. You used three very harsh words: I thought they were'solving', 'complicating' and 'threating'. You used them in this context, that they should not be in society, that such a thing cannot be approved in any way, but must be condemned. And I think you're 100 percent right. All of us must condemn such things and not approve of them. Finally, you asked whether one party in the government coalition should take the first step. I don't know what kind of party you mean. There are three political parties in the government coalition that you mean exactly? But I don't think that's how we're gonna get the result. I think we all have to make an effort to be insulted, mocked, threatened and deliberately purposeful! Putting behind your feet is also less in the political struggle. The Centre Party must also strive to achieve this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U114	Thank you. Mr Lauri, an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U115	Thank you. I think you do understand what kind of party and coalition partner I was thinking. It's an EKRE. You said in one of your interviews that EKRE has changed. For some reason, many people do not feel that way, and it concerns not only those in this room, but also those on the outside. I dare say very firmly that as many people as now have not stopped me on the street before, and there is always one question: how long will it last? And people are thinking the same thing, perhaps, of insulting, mocking, and threatening. And the head of the EKRE confirmed on Monday in this very remote area that he and his party aren't going to change, they're going to continue the same. On Monday, members of the Riigikogu were actually threatened on this board. I admit that if someone had said the same words to me on the street, I would have seriously considered turning to the police. What are you going to do to really change this rhetoric? To be honest, no one has the belief that the use and behaviour of EKRE will change.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U116	Thank you. You also spoke of people outside this hall. You said there were a lot of people on the street stopping you and asking when this was gonna end. I've also been stopped by a lot of people between shops, on the streets, on the park lane, and told me you were doing the right thing. Saying that you're doing the right thing and the right strength, hold on! Some have also said that the Reform Party is crossing the line with its own affairs. Today, a fellow group member of yours insisted that I take an oath with my hands on the Bible. Good thing he didn't ask me for three drops of blood. I guess these emotions are different for us and for the streets. I guess we'll notice more about the emotions we want to notice. I'm not saying that the emotions you've experienced on the street are wrong emotions, but we have to consider that the scales have two bowls and both sides have to be taken into account. You asked me what I was doing to make this rhetoric change. I can say that everyone who's been elected to this hall, all 101 members, is equal. It is not the case that some people are more a member of the Riigikogu than others that one is more Estonian than the other. It cannot be said that one is better and the other is worse. Everyone's chosen here. Everyone's got a mandate from the people. But everyone needs to understand that they bear great responsibility for their actions and their words. True, the weight of responsibility is always greater in the coalition. It's just the way it is. It's about the EKRE now, it's about the Fatherland, and it's about the Centre Party. What else can I do? Every politician has to understand what field he's on. Of course, I have been in contact with coalition partners, members of the government, and I am certainly willing to continue these dialogues. But like I said when I started this briefing, I think it's appropriate to finish it. I'm not gonna finish the briefing, of course, but at least when I finish answering your questions, I'm gonna say that everything really has a certain transition period, but at some point that time is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U117	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a little less than a minute until today's crucial sitting begins, so we will not be able to deal with any more issues. I'm finishing Question Time. Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U118	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 8th working week Wednesday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, There is an opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U119	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs presents a draft of the Riigikogu's decision on the appointment of the members of the Joint Parliamentary Audit Group, which controls the activities of the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation. There are two names in the bill: Uno Kaskpeit and Kalle Laanet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U120	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft and the Management Board processes it in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U121	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have one item on the agenda: the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mr Marko Mihkelson, vice-president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U122	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, We have come to the formation of an Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe by forming our foreign delegations. On 6 May this year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the composition of delegations, including the composition of the ENPA delegation, and called on the political groups to send their candidates to the seats of the members of the delegation. On 13 May, when the Committee on Foreign Affairs had received these proposals, the Commission discussed the establishment of a delegation and proposed to initiate a draft decision in such a way that the delegation to be set up would include our following colleagues: Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski as Head of Delegation, Eerik-Niles Kross and Jaak Madison as members, and Indrek Saar and Raivo Tamm as alternate members. On 27 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs proposed to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of this working week. The rapporteur was appointed here, with no proposals to amend the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-05_U123	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments have been tabled to the draft, and we can go to the final vote. I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 16 has been adopted as a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of today's sitting. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 2.07 p.m.
