ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 6th working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. For starters, there is an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. We're gonna do a presence check. 75 members of the Riigikogu are present, 26. Attention, detailing the agenda. On today's eighth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the initiator's member Kaja Kallas will make a report.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U2	Okay, let's go to today's agenda. First item, the third reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the government of the Republic of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia... I'm sorry! I am voting on the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic 54. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U3	Today's second item is the second reading of the draft Act 46 on the ratification of the Right to Work Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Japan. I would like a presentation by Mikhail Lotman, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U4	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! The first reading of Bill 46 was completed on 25 September. The deadline for amendments was 9 October at 5.15 p.m. No amendments were tabled. At its meeting on 10 October, the Committee on Foreign Affairs continued to prepare for the second reading of the draft and reviewed the proposals for linguistic and regulatory improvements submitted. Since the agreement is concluded by exchange of notes after the adoption of the ratification law, the words 'added' have been deleted from the text of the draft for reasons of legal clarity and a technical note on the publication of the texts of the agreement in the Official Journal has been added. The Committee on Foreign Affairs decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the second reading of 46 by 22 October, that the second reading be closed and that the final vote be held.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U5	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. As no amendments to the draft have been tabled, we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 46 on the ratification of the Tourism Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Japan, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U6	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu "Proposal for the Government of the Republic to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language" submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly present this item on the agenda. First, the presentation by the author of the draft is up to 20 minutes, then the presentation by the representative of the commission is up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Representatives of political groups and committees may take part in the negotiations. There will also be a final vote, with a majority of the votes required for adoption of the draft. Okay, let's get to the point. I request Priit Sibula, a member of the Riigikogu as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U7	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Why are we here? What is the content and purpose of our work, the goal of the government, the aim of Estonian science, the elite of entrepreneurs? Our aim is to preserve the Estonian nation, culture and language. This is laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. This is an idea that should encourage us all to get up in the morning and become active. This is Estonia's big idea. This idea should be hanging in every office next to the President's parade photo. When we took an oath as politicians, it was this idea that began to serve the purpose of our work. All other goals, world-viewed, ideological, will come after this idea has been realized. The idea of the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture is also borne by the draft decision submitted by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Pro Patria Party to the Government of the Republic to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language. This decision proposes that the government prepare a development plan for the Estonian language for the years 2021 to 2035. Today, the development document for the language field is the Estonian Language Development Plan 2011 just beyond 2017 which has been extended due to the delay in receiving the new document. The gap in planning the future of the language area must be filled, and the decision of today's Riigikogu provides guidelines for this. The draft expresses principles of both conceptual and practical nature. I'll stop at some of them. The guiding principle of the draft is to use the Estonian language throughout all areas of life in order to ensure, maintain and strengthen the vitality, reputation and functioning of the Estonian language in public communication, education, lifelong learning, activities of interest, media, politics, entrepreneurship, economics, cultural and creative activities, public space and everyday life. It represents the basis for the survival of our country and nation. By holding and protecting the Estonian language, we hold and protect Estonia. However, I would also like to add to the previous point, which is stated by the language development document that was not adopted in 2018 and which, in my personal opinion, could also be the ideal of the new development plan. The status of the Estonian language supports the identity of the Estonian people, both the identity of those Estonians who have been born and raised in this language environment, and those who have decided to associate their lives permanently or for a longer period with our country. There has been a migration turn in Estonia. For the last four years, our immigration has exceeded emigration. Half of the immigrants are returnees, but one third is made up of Ukrainian and Russian citizens. The arrivals must find a social environment and language here, but often it is not Estonian. Depending on the chance or personal choice of the arrival, he may also enter an English or Russian communication environment. The task of the state is to ensure that immigrants arrive in the Estonian language environment and learn to communicate in Estonian. A major step towards achieving this goal is the process of building Estonian-language houses carried out by our party politicians, especially Viktoria. The Estonian language house is an Estonian-language and pro-Estonian environment centre. A place where people of different nationalities and native languages can learn and practice Estonian, get to know Estonian culture and get practical advice about living, studying and working in Estonia. Today the Estonian language house already operates in Tallinn and Narva, Kohtla-Järve has a branch. We will also talk about the problems on which it is up to today's politicians to find solutions. In Estonian society, self-contained segregation is felt on the basis of language skills. This is particularly evident in the school system. The problem is also addressed by the draft, which aims to develop a plan for the development of education in Estonian, starting with early childhood education. Our Russian-speaking population lives separately from Estonians and lives worse. If you do not know enough of the official language to serve customers or to communicate with colleagues, your chances of finding a rewarding job will decrease. A lack of language skills and a person's competitiveness, or the ability to guarantee a better standard of living, are linked. Inevitably, there are denials of this relationship or bypassers of it. It is unforgivable, however, where politicians could become denials, barriers to the transition to education in Estonian. Obstruction of the transition to education in Estonian has, since the restoration of independence, reduced the chances for young people throughout the generation to benefit from social benefits. As another cross-cutting idea, I would like to highlight the development of the Estonian language in the draft. If we do not work systematically with the language, there is a risk that Estonian will remain the so-called cuisine language. The University of Tartu recently closed the Estonian-language master's degree in philosophy, as there were not enough applicants. But what happens next? How can new students of Estonian master's studies apply for a curriculum that no longer exists? Language development is measured by its use in higher education, science and culture. Point 3 of the draft decision expresses the principle of supporting the creation and use of Estonian-language vocabulary in all areas of life, including science, and the preservation and development of higher education curricula in Estonian, so that the Estonian language can continue to be used as a higher education and scientific language. The task of this government is accompanied by an obligation to develop and maintain curricula in Estonian. The risk is a sharp increase in the share of English-language education in higher education, both by the number of students and by the number of curricula. Higher education in the native language is an invaluable asset threatened by an invasion of English. The problem is not just specific to Estonia; the same tendency threatens almost all of Europe's small people. Language is a means of conveying and storing information. The language develops when the areas of life in which the language is applied develop. Education and science, as well as culture, is an invaluable source for language development. If these areas of life go to a foreign language, the source will be trampled down, the language will not evolve and will simply degenerate over time. The trend is sad. When Estonian language is lost in higher education and science, we no longer have reason to talk about Estonian higher education or Estonian science. As a third topic, which I consider essential in the context of the Estonian language development plan, I would like to highlight the helping of the language environment in Ida-Virumaa. Proficiency in the Estonian language is a question of the sustainability of our society. Given our geopolitical location, special attention must be paid to the situation of the Estonian language in Ida-Virumaa and effective measures must be taken to ensure that the use of the Estonian language in the region increases, as stated in Section 6 of the draft. Linguistic segregation in our society cannot be watched by shunting shoulders. Personal coping is the primary need of every living creature; in human society, it is self - support through work or business. The creation of a family and the care of children add to the responsibility not only for themselves but also for their loved ones. This means the need for more income, but to earn more income it is necessary to move on to more profitable work in society, to expand your business, to make a career, etc. The lack of knowledge of the Estonian language prevents many Estonians from moving forward in life. In creating and maintaining a cohesive society, the state cannot ignore these people. Deficient language skills are the root of the problem. If we destroy the root of it, the problem will die. People separated from society today will have better access to social benefits, earning opportunities and citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian state has been created as a nation state. 'Nationality' and 'nationality' are concepts that we need to rethink time and again and build continuity on, because not everyone may perceive the vitality of small people as a global challenge that we need to address today. Estonian nationalism is based on language and culture, Estonian is everyone who defines himself as an Estonian, lives in Estonian culture and speaks Estonian. The Estonian language is a surface in which the unity of our society is rooted and the concept of statehood is born over time and ages, unlike many other countries, whose identity may be based on famous historical events, natives, geographical locations or other circumstances. Fatherland, the worldview of my home party is central to nationalism. It is one of the ideals on which every day's political act should be based. Alongside the ideal is the so-called real life, where we need to ask ourselves how I can help build an ideal society. The Riigikogu's proposal to strengthen the vitality of the Estonian language to the government includes both the ideas of the nation state and practical solutions to practical problems in terms of social cohesion and people's livelihood. I call on all parliamentary parties to support this initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U8	Thank you. You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U9	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. Until the elections, we agreed that it was yesterday to speak about learning the Estonian language and the development of the Estonian language. It does not include a change in the need to switch to education in Estonian. This is where you hinted someone was gonna stop it. The Fatherland has twice prevented us from proposing a transition to education in Estonian; the government could have organised real steps instead of all this talk. Tell me who this obstructor has been and what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U10	This draft decision gives the government ten points to deal with. And what has happened in history, unfortunately, in my opinion there is no political party or political group in Estonia for whom the development of the Estonian language would have been a priority at all times. Unfortunately, this has been the case, because otherwise draft decision No 2 would not have been the case, otherwise this draft decision would not have been here, this problem would have long been forgotten. So, unfortunately, we all have to look at ourselves or in the mirror that this problem is still unresolved. And I think the question is that, since there are five political groups in Parliament, if each political group came up with its own proposal, these would be five different types of proposals. This, here, which I am presenting today, is the proposal of the three groups and the joint part on how to proceed with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U11	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U12	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In this document, there are quite a number of significant and somewhat bizarre aspects. First of all, the government gives itself an assignment through the coalition. But now on this task: did you know that in 2018 and in the first half of it, the government committed the Ministry of Education and Research to creating a new development plan for the Estonian language, and in the first half of this year the government had to agree on the fundamentals of Estonian language policy? It hasn't been done. My question is how these two documents and whether these two documents are linked.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U13	Thank you. Yeah, I know that. I even referred in my report, if you have noticed, to this problem that, indeed, today, unfortunately, we still do not have a valid development plan. And now, at the level of the State Chancellery, we are discussing which documents and development plans or plans should be and which are not, it is regrettable that we also have a valid Estonian language development plan or framework document. I hope that, if we support this draft here today, both this development plan and all the other important framework documents that concern the Estonian language will reach us as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U14	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U15	Austet President! Good waitress! I certainly support the objectives set out in this draft, the ideals. But on this practical side, what is the reason that prevents today's government from setting similar goals? Are any government departments at the government table against these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U16	Thank you. This is a proposal from the three groups that we have here, so no one in the coalition is opposed to these proposals, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U17	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U18	Thank you, good waitress. When we started speaking in Tallinn in 2017 at local elections that education could be unified and in Estonian from kindergarten, I remember how another party, social democrats, said something about hands away from children. And then the representative of the Fatherland, who was very fond of you, said on the news that it must necessarily be voluntary, that you should not enter this path. Now you're talking a little different. I'm reading this bill, and it's extremely scattered. My question to you is, what exactly have you now agreed? Is the common part that Estonian-language education begins in kindergarten, or that Estonian language as a foreign language begins there, which is your common part with the Centre Party? Why don't you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U19	Thank you. This subject, as you asked, has been discussed in very many and different ways. Indeed, there is a great deal of local governments to decide and we should not discuss at all in this hall what is happening and what is being done in Tallinn or Ida-Viru County. But I don't understand a few things either. For example, Paides took over Estonian-language education, where there is the Centre Party, the Fatherland and soccer in the coalition. They were able to agree and cross. But Valgas, for example, where there is the Reform Party and the Centre Party in the coalition, has not moved on with this question for some reason. The same is true in Tartu. So there are different views about these things. And really, if you look at history, then, as I said, it is unfortunately so that it has not been a priority at the so-called national level. We will no longer be able to deal with this issue in 2019. What the coalition has agreed is in this bill. And I hope that if Parliament supports it today and the government gets a starting point here, there will be very specific dates here and then everyone will be able to see where there is a common part and where nobody has a common part.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U20	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I would ask you a specific question: what is your personal position and the position of the Isamaa Group? Do you support the transition to education in Estonian in kindergartens or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U22	Thank you. The budget for the following year provides for the provision of resources for each kindergarten to have an Estonian language teacher. Last week, when we visited the Riigikogu with the problem committee on the development of Estonian language in Ida-Virumaa, this was also the subject of a meeting held at the college. The two 15-minute courses per week currently provided for in the Early Childhood Education Act are obviously too few. An additional resource was now found in next year's budget in order to enable Estonian language teachers to get to any kindergarten. Yeah, I think it could be a lot faster, but it's not a question of this hall. The local government could deal with this calmly without us having to deal with this issue in this Chamber. No one will prevent any local government from dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U23	Thank you, honourable entrepreneur. More questions... Waitress! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] A rapporteur who may also be an entrepreneur. But thank you very much for your presentation. And let's keep going. Aadu Musta, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The Riigikogu Committee on Culture discussed this draft on Tuesday, 8 October. The meeting was chaired by the chairman of the committee. All members of the committee were present except Katri Raig and Kristina Šmigun-Vähi. The chairman of the committee, i.e. I, had the task of reporting by the originator. In general, this draft did not have to be presented for a very long time, as the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has dealt with all these points in one aspect or another or in a third. And it can also be said that there was no one against the content of these points, rather than a bit of generalisation, the whole discussion went on about the level of the draft. If we have a staircase in front of us, which consists, say, of seven steps to reach the ideal, then the question was whether to step on the first step or there is too little of it, no maybe the world revolves on and could take the third and go forward at a faster pace. This was the main point in a broad sense. In all the individual points concerning the situation of the Estonian language, no one said that everything would be perfect, that these tasks should not be erected and that there would be no one, another or third threat mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. Nevertheless, it was an emotional, fortunately, constructive debate. It was pointed out that not only is the Committee on Culture dealing with this issue, but there is also a special committee in the Riigikogu, which should also deal with the issues of Estonian language. The opinion remained that, when the government starts to realise this proposal, it must certainly listen not only to the proposals and opinions of the Committee on Culture and the results of its work, but also to the work of the'special committee', which is still in the start-up phase. Didn't they speak any language at all? The language was spoken. We even began to deal with vocabulary problems quite thoroughly. A good colleague, Jaak Valge, raised the question of using the concept of a multinational Estonian in the explanatory memorandum. We discussed it thoroughly, but finally, to a competent solution on how to use it in Estonian, but we did not reach it, and we did not take the decision. All the more so, it is not in the main text of the draft text, but in the explanatory memorandum, which has been interpreted differently in some cases. As far as language matters are concerned, in general, however, the Commission's ambition was that the draft would not only be a matter of the first step, but that it would have wider influence. This was expressed in a dispute about the words'sectoral development plan'. The Committee on Culture proposed that the first sentence be worded as follows: 'To the Government of the Republic, it proposed to develop a sectoral development plan for the Estonian language for the years 2021 to 2035, based on the following principles. ' The point is, as the lawyers have explained to us, that if it is simply a development plan, it can happen that it is binding on one ministry. But'sectoral' refers to the broader meaning of the Estonian state's documents, which shows that it is not a matter of one ministry, but is 'transnational'. The reason was also given to us by § 19 of the State Budget Act, which defines these complex words and precisely this concept of sectoralism more precisely. So the point of this amendment, however, was to significantly increase the significance of the draft, perhaps otherwise modest. A wide range of individual issues were also addressed. For example, Helle-Moonika Helme asked whether the role of the Estonian Language Inspectorate could be defined more precisely. We discussed this, and the answer was that this is, however, a proposal for the Government of the Republic, which does not formulate or specify all the details. That was the next issue of disputes. The question was how detailed the proposal to the Government of the Republic must be and in what format its text must be. On the one hand, it was emphasised or asked the same questions as to whether coalition parties themselves must make proposals to the Government of the Republic. The reason is that, for a moment, I will return to what has been said before, if there are simple things that everyone agrees with, but which have not yet been done and where there are shortcomings, mistakes, it is obviously appropriate to formulate them clearly. This does not mean that these are the final goals, that life will stop from there and that nothing else will ever be done again. This is the first step to be taken. This is a proposal to the Government of the Republic, for which it is good for the Government of the Republic to take the initiative and dare to be bolder, erect and realise tasks more boldly than is required in a particular paper. But it also gives the opposition an excellent opportunity to check whether and to what extent these points have actually been put to work and to contribute to their implementation. The question of how long a task must be, how detailed or non-detailed, went through several times. The practice so far shows that a proposal to the Government of the Republic may also consist of one sentence, which is the "source signal." There were also a number of more specific matters to be discussed, but these, as just general details, would not be discussed at the moment. If there is a need to address them through questions, I will try to do so in response.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U25	Thank you. You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U26	Thank you, Mr. Black! It is no secret to the child that this bill was submitted against our draft, which made a concrete proposal for the government to turn education into an Estonian language, and which could have dealt with everything that has been said here. It is very unusual that the coalition gives itself a task. And when you look at what this task is, it is to ensure, maintain, strengthen, work, increase, support, prepare, pay special attention, continue, etc. Tell me, what is the big change that this bill is asking for, and why are we not getting through without this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U27	I, too, like to look at the world so that I stand in the middle and the others revolve around me, that is to say that our draft was the answer to the Reform Party's draft. No, it wasn't. In fact, we got into trouble with other things and before, so it's not the only trouble Jürgen sees. The principle is that today, Priit Sibula's presentation already referred to how problems with the Estonian language development plan arose and not even for political reasons, but it turns out that the language people themselves were divided into several powerful camps, even academic people. Amazingly, their distribution was somewhat similar. You could say that minimalists, maximalists and optimists did not reach an agreement. One direction really required powerful and radical innovations in the language development plan, etc. When there was no agreement and it became clear that this document could not be made, the work of the committee who tried to work with the Estonian language development plan was first and foremost summarised. They looked at what was the common part, and they marked all the weaknesses, and indeed it was the agreement of the three groups, at least a minimum programme, of which there must in no way be a new setback. That was the course of discussion that I know of. However, there was definitely a conspiracy somewhere, but unfortunately the Commission has not been informed about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U28	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U29	Thank you, dear waitress. The document is nice, but in its current form, I did not find any clue in this document or the explanatory memorandum to what should be the output of this document in real life, in the future. You mentioned in your speech that it would be necessary to take a first step, i.e. to create the same sectoral development plan and explain what should be done then. But I think that this document was triggered by the desire that the use of the Estonian language, the development of the Estonian language, would be actually visible. I would ask what the real purpose of this document is. Where and when are these goals to actually appear in real life, not once again as a document in a desk drawer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U30	I dare say that I fully agree with you in many respects. It is certainly not the document that determines our development God knows how long in the future. I repeat, this is really just the first step. It is also right that we all need to continue working to take the next and stronger steps. So it's not like there's an argument. If you ask what is the next step specifically, this task is based on the sectoral development plan developed by the Government of the Republic, which needs to be reviewed as critically as we are talking about these foundations. So this is not a decision that will change the world, but it will launch a process within which we will be going to review with you quite thoroughly and critically the sectoral development plan, which the Government of the Republic will be given a specific task. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U31	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, waitress. Did you also discuss in committee that maybe this bill is like breaking into an open door? When I read this text, I do not see anything here that would not be dealt with today by the various public authorities, educational institutions, universities. Is it really necessary to draw up another development plan instead of taking completely concrete steps towards the transition to Estonian-language learning and perhaps to make a plan or strategy for this particular purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U33	Thank you. Indeed, the Commission was talking about how demanding this document is. It was or was more or less agreed that this was far from the point of our dreams. But it was also said that the three groups consider it reasonable to start by realising all these points so that we are not under the stairs, but at least on the first step. All the areas mentioned in this document, which appear to be breaking through an open door, have indeed been accepted, adopted and found to have to go in this direction, as is the case with the public. At the same time, it is said both in the universities you mentioned and in other institutions that there are not only threats but also real shortcomings in all these aspects. Turns out, where everyone is paved with a dream sheet, the ground is sometimes very bumpy down there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U34	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U35	Yeah, thanks! Good waitress! My question is a little pushy from your answer to Jürgen Ligi. We all know, however, that this coalition's birth certificate has been written in the letter of the Speaker, that this coalition is the only hope of maintaining Russian-speaking education, so he has said, stressing the exclamation mark that it is the only option of coalition that allows it. This document is also well spread and, as Mr Jürgen Ligi read out, there are a lot of words such as 'enhanced','repair' and so on. Whatever area of life you are working in, imagine that you are going to get a car repair or a salary, and you are told that special attention is paid to your salary and that it is even preserved. I hope you understand in your heart that this is actually a political compromise and extremely ridiculous, because what could be easier than saying that we are starting with Estonian-language learning from the beginning, or kindergarten. Why didn't you consider it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U36	In fact, the question was not quite correct. I like to answer, and I could talk about what was discussed in another committee or, for example, in the Centre Party Board, and whether or not someone there heard a Speaker's statement and whether or not they were willing to join it, but, you know, the rule seems to resent me if I am now starting to talk about the fact that some of someone's statements might not express the party's position. This is not the subject of the Committee on Culture at the moment. Doesn't express, doesn't express. There are no official documents or decisions taken by a majority of the Bureau. But I'm sorry, we need to talk about this somewhere separate. This is not the subject of the debate in the Committee on Culture. There were different proposals in the Committee on Culture. What remained to be said was that we must become increasingly demanding, especially in our future work. No objections. The Commission has not said that it will solve all the problems. Forget it! It's not like that! However, it was found that it is indeed necessary to start with more than standing under the stairs. This draft is a compromise that was now able to be expressed in a relief and clear way in the hope that the government might be able to raise the bar even further. That's the way it is in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U37	Thank you. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U38	Thank you. I listened to these two presentations, and it is still unclear to me why someone in this Chamber should now be more confident that the government will actually be dealing with the transition to education in Estonian if the government has not been able to do so without a draft decision. Maybe you give yourself a job, and then things should get going somehow. What has prevented you from discussing this problem with the government in the Commission so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U39	Like I said, this thing pushed into some of the big gaps in our laws. In particular, on the development plans. The first reason for developing this document was not a political desire to prove anything to anyone, but a practical attitude to the fact that the necessary development plan for Estonian language, sorry, ran away. We tried to take over from there what the relevant working group, the relevant actors, had reached consensus on. As for the question of whether without this paper it could be better or worse, I saw that perhaps there was a hint of the difference between the two reports. Priit Sibul presented a political presentation, and I must refer to what was discussed by the Commission. I'm not as big a politician as Priit, I'm a humanitarian intelligence. And while I've been here, I've learned that the Riigikogu has promised big jumps, but never made them, whereas small steps have been able to take. Better to take three small steps than plan a jump that's not jumping. That's my understanding of the matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U40	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no more questions for you, and we can go to the negotiations. First of all, Jaak Juske on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U41	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about the Estonian language and the situation of our language, on the one hand, we can say that we live in the golden age of the Estonian language. The Estonian language has been the official language for 100 years, it has been one of the official languages of the European Union for 15 years and, perhaps most important in today's information society, it is digital. He is a language whose preservation through the ages is protected by our constitution. No other country's goal here on earth is to preserve and protect Estonian language and culture. Of course, we must observe very closely the health of our language, our small tongue. Our native language teachers complain that the native language skills of Estonian young people are declining. It was also mentioned here that our universities are under pressure to keep their curricula in Estonian. Our language is small and vulnerable, and we need to keep a close eye on his health. I think that no party in this honourable hall is questioning the constitutional objective of protecting and maintaining the Estonian language. The more disturbing I am, unfortunately, is the struggle in this Chamber for the one who is the most right Estonian. We have a supposedly very national government today. To be honest, it is strange that the same points that are written in this beautiful bill are not included in the coalition agreement or are not written in it. I do not understand why coalition parties, who run the country and whose representatives sit at the table of government, have long not approved these goals together. Or is there one of the three political parties at the table against these goals that we must give these tasks in this honourable Chamber? It raises questions. But to sum up, the Social Democrats naturally support the goals and ideals set out in this bill so that the language of this country, as it rises up in the wind, can search for eternity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U42	Thank you. Signe Kivi, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U43	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We are faced with a draft decision of 60, on the basis of which the Government of the Republic is invited to develop a sectoral development plan for the Estonian language for the years 2021 to 2035. The draft includes a ten-point command table, which aims to ensure four times, support three times, maintain twice, but also strengthen, work, increase, construct, rotate, expand, continue, value, develop. These words and methods of action described in the words have nothing to do with themselves, and these objectives are, or should at least be, long ago the goal of every government of the Republic of Estonia according to our constitution, according to which the preservation of the Estonian language must be ensured through the ages. Moreover, the drafting of strategic documents according to the statutes of the ministries is the responsibility of each ministry and the inter-ministerial and cross-ministerial cooperation on important issues, which undoubtedly is the strengthening of the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language, is also self-evident. I quote from § 4 of the Ministry of Education and Research's Statute: 'The administration of the Ministry is governed by the planning of the state's education, research, archives, youth and language policies and, in this respect, by the organisation of the basic, basic, general, central, vocational, higher, interesting and adult education, research and development, archival, youth work and special youth work, and the drafting of the corresponding legislation. In the case of § 5 of the basic Regulation, 'Main tasks of the Ministry', I shall mention the first three, subject-matter: '1) development of development plans and programmes, organisation of their implementation and funding and evaluation of results; 2) drafting legislative proposals and organising the implementation of legislation; 3) analysis of policy impact, organisation of studies and production of statistics'. A discussion on the responsibilities of ministries took place at the meeting of the Committee on Culture. As explained by the Commission's leader, Professor Aadu Musta, the decision submitted to us includes a proposal for a development plan for the Government of the Republic and, according to Professor Black, the way the government organises it is the government's decision, but it will probably take place under the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Research. Thus, coalition groups give the government, which they themselves have formed in accordance with the Coalition Agreement, a task. We're back to square one. The Group of the Reform Party will not understand this draft and the purpose of this draft. The draft decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic to make Estonia's initial and school education uniform and in Estonian" submitted by us to the Riigikogu wanted to provide a clear guide to the government, which would change today's situation. However, the draft decision here does not change anything and does not add anything. Perhaps, as my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, said at the committee meeting, I quote from the Commission's minutes: 'There is no point in dealing with things that have a value close to zero. " Thank you for your attention and for the happy Estonian Year!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U44	Thank you. Urmas Espenberg on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U45	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I represent both the EKRE and the Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning. The EKRE Group is in favour of draft decision 60 and recommends that others do so as well. No one doubts that we all want the final and complete victory of the Estonian language. But how can this be achieved? In ancient Egypt, there was a god like Ptah, who created the world with his own talk, or conjured the world. But the repetition that we will start speaking in Estonian tomorrow does not work. The reality needs to be taken into account, the situation needs to be taken into account. After all, we have been waiting for this talk in Estonian since 1991, but nothing has happened but money and time, or, well, nothing has happened, not everything has gone to waste. That is why we did not support the draft of the Reform Party at the beginning of September, because it was a clear suicide, i.e. empty paper. The more we have worked on the problem committee on the development of Estonian language, the more I am convinced that this matter is correct. This was confirmed by our last visit to Ida-Viru County. The results are sad: textbooks, curricula, glossaries, methodologies are very poor. However, this problem can in principle be solved faster and more easily. However, there are two very acute problems, a very big one. First of all, we are short of teachers in Estonian, we are short of teachers at all, but especially Estonian teachers. And another thing, we definitely have to start with kindergarten. If we build a house, we can't start from the top, for example, high schooling, this house would collapse. You have to start in kindergarten, you have to continue in comprehensive school and go back to upper secondary school. We visited Kohtla-Järve Gymnasium. There are 75% of children with Russian native language or home language, and their knowledge of Estonian is, frankly, incomplete. Now they all came to the Estonian gymnasium. There's such an experiment as to what happens. Teachers are in trouble, students are in trouble. But there is one of Estonia's best school leaders, Hendrik Agur, and there is national support, so maybe something will work out. But how many Agurites do we have? One, maybe two. A regular teacher doesn't make it in a situation like this. The bill of 60 creates this base just now. I'm not a fan of any development plans either, they're relatively empty papers, I have to admit. However, perhaps we could add to it after we have adopted the law a small practical plan that includes some activities and those responsible for them. Finally, adult language learning is more of a two-way thing or a lottery, because there is a great deal of self-reliance on the student. But children can be taught, no matter what their intellectual level is. They learn a lot faster and easier. That is the position of the EKRE.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U46	Thank you. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U47	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! The Fatherland Group undoubtedly supports the draft decision 'Proposing the Government of the Republic to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language'. The Fatherland was one of the strong initiators of this proposal. Before I came here with my message, I looked at what has been said on a similar subject on the remote over the years. For understandable reasons, texts are beautifully often repeated. We all know what is important here and that it needs to be strengthened, but in real life these things do not move very quickly. And I know why you're not moving. There are two major reasons to note in this Chamber as well. Of course, it cannot be said that nothing has been done in this area. The last quite great achievement was definitely the opening of Estonian-language houses in Narva and Tallinn and the organisation of free language courses, which should considerably alleviate the problem of access to courses, but not only they will also help to address integration issues in general. Why do I strongly support the creation of a development plan? To be honest, I am relatively neutral about how to name this document, the fundamentals of Estonian, the development plan or the strategy. The biggest advantage of this document, which we are discussing here today, is precisely the point that the government must put in place a development plan, or the main strategy, how to protect the Estonian language. I very much wanted this document and the plan already in the previous government. No, you didn't. Now it's coming. The government should really draw up a concrete plan for the development of the Estonian language, which would cover a variety of topics, including the system and methodology of teaching the language, the increase of teachers, the Estonian language as a scientific language, the Estonian language as a language of smart devices, the common Estonian education system, etc. Second. It is an interesting detail that we all know that the Constitution provides for the protection of the Estonian language through the ages, but when we talk about it purely politically, we often delegate our responsibility elsewhere. The hall says, "Let the government do it! That's a coalition line. In 17 years, when you were in power, why weren't they? Where did he and the other Minister of Education look? ', et cetera. Doesn't that ring a bell? Language is not a matter for other people. Language and its protection, development is everyone's line. You can see that the courses are a little. Do something to make them more. You see, there's a crisis with the teachers. Do something to make your own child want to be a teacher. Not necessarily, but at least the teaching profession isn't on the last line in his personal ranking. It's so easy to show off and say they didn't. Everyone is responsible. I am deeply convinced that there are no issues here for us and for you. The subject is one. And the main thing is to preserve the language through the ages. Period. Every one of us elected here is working on it. For action to be structured and targeted, a development strategy is needed, and we demand a clear plan from the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U48	Thank you. Marko Šorin, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U49	Good President! Good Riigikogu! I liked Mr Juske's speech that there is no competition in this Chamber on the subject of who is the best Estonian. It is up to all of us to deal with Estonia, regardless of the outlook on the axis of the right or left, or who belongs to which party. Nor does it matter whether there is a coalition or opposition. Why are we having this debate today? Every journey, even around the world, begins with the first step. Let's take this step. We must jointly ensure and strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language. Although the public often discusses whether to switch to education in Estonian tomorrow or whether to give it some time, the challenge may be whether Estonian speakers will be able to speak more Estonian in the future. While politicians are discussing whether education should be in Estonian already in kindergarten, Estonian may disappear from higher education institutions, as has been the case here today. Last week, when the Committee on Culture, which, by the way, actually discusses education issues at 90%, discussed the rejection of examinations at a public meeting at the end of the comprehensive school, the pedagogues actually highlighted the problem of the lack of text-creating skills among young people. The development plan that we are discussing must provide us with answers, or also with plans and tasks, at several levels. You can tell a person to stay healthy. But what does he have to do about it? Puts on a jacket, puts on a hat, a scarf on his neck, but forgets his boots and goes outside and wonders why his throat hurts the next day. The Estonian language must be kept in all areas at all levels, also here in the Riigikogu. People often ask why we're not doing anything tomorrow. The process must be thorough, and the results will be better. We cannot change the past, no matter how long we discuss it in this Chamber, nag each other, or ask embarrassing questions. But we can change the future. If anyone thinks that the lack of Estonian is a micro-level problem that affects only the family or a young person who does not speak Estonian, then in fact, a large number of people who do not speak Estonian are a macro-economic problem that affects the entire Estonian state, that is, all of us. I therefore call on the honourable Riigikogu to support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U50	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, so the negotiations are closed. As one amendment to the draft was also tabled, we will examine this amendment. The amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the resolution of the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa of the Riigikogu 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language', draft 60. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U51	Let's keep going. Today's fourth item is the first reading of the Bill 74 on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Citizens' Initiative initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please, waitress Minister of Justice Raivo Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U52	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law on the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Citizens' Initiative prepared by the Ministry of Justice. The draft provides for the following changes: Lowering the minimum age for signing a citizens' initiative statement of support from 18 to 16 years. § 1 of the draft law sets the minimum age for supporting a citizens' initiative at 16 years. Pursuant to point 7 of the recital in the preamble to the new citizens' initiative regulation, the question of reducing the minimum age for participation in a citizens' initiative must be analysed by all Member States and, if it has been decided to lower the minimum age to 16 years of age, the Commission must be informed accordingly. What is important is that countries are not obliged to lower the minimum age, but they are obliged to analyse it. Under the current regulation, the minimum age for participation in a citizens' initiative is the age of the elections to the European Parliament. The age of persons entitled to vote in elections to the European Parliament shall be the competence of the Member State itself, which may be determined either by the Constitution or by law, and shall not be governed by European Union law. With the exception of Austria and Malta, the majority of the Member States of the European Union have appointed a person entitled to vote in elections to the European Parliament to be at least 18 years old. In the elections to the European Parliament in Estonia, an Estonian citizen who has become 18 years of age and a citizen of the European Union living permanently in Estonia, who has not been deprived of the right to vote in his country of origin. Thus, according to the regulation currently in force in Estonia, the minimum age for signing a statement of support is 18 years. In Estonia, the idea of reducing the age limit for supporting a citizens' initiative has been supported when the position of the Government and the Riigikogu was formed in February 2018 on the proposal for a regulation. The Ministry of Education and Research has expressed the view that the inclusion of young people at least 16 years of age in the citizens' initiative should be supported insofar as the citizens' initiative is a participatory instrument and would contribute to increasing the active citizenship of young people. This is not about involving young people in political party policies, but about increasing active citizenship. At the same time, a good example of involving young people in Estonia is that 16-year-olds have the right to take part in municipal elections. Estonia has created an instrument similar to the European Citizens' Initiative, a collective approach whose procedure is governed by Chapter 182 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. A grant signature may also be given to a collective appeal by a permanent resident of Estonia who is at least 16 years old. In view of the above, the draft proposal proposes a minimum age of 16 years. The Ministry of the Interior shall be designated as the national contact point for assistance to groups of organisers of a citizens' initiative. According to § 2 (1) of the draft regulation, the authority referred to in Article 4 (6) of the Regulation which provides information and assistance free of charge to groups of organisers in accordance with applicable Union and national law is the Ministry of the Interior. The new Regulation entrusts Member States with the creation of one or more contact points in the European Union citizens' initiative to provide groups of organisers with free information and assistance in accordance with applicable Union and national law. In particular, the contact point would be responsible for informing organisers of a citizens' initiative about the role of the competent authorities of a Member State in implementing the Regulation. In essence, Estonian competent authorities The Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Data Protection Inspectorate, together with the State Information System Authority, already perform this role. The obligation to explain the administrative body is an important part of good administrative practice. The website of the Ministry of the Interior contains all information on the European Citizens' Initiative with a reference to the Commission's respective website. As the Regulation limits the tasks of the contact point to what the Member States are required to do in order to implement the Regulation to the static display of information already required on the website and to respond to requests for certification of grant signatures, there will be no increase in workload and no additional costs. The Ministry of the Interior can therefore act as a contact point. Similarly to the current law, national government bodies are designated to fulfil their obligations under the Regulation and lay down procedural grounds for fulfilling their obligations. The commitments are verification and verification of the statement of support and verification of compliance with the individual system for collecting an online statement of support. The date of entry into force of the Act will be 1 January 2020, as the Regulation will apply from that date. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U53	Thank you. Minister, your presentation was so exhaustive that there are no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U54	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U55	Now I would like to ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U56	Honourable manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The implementation of the European Parliament and Council Regulation on the European Citizens' Initiative, initiated by the Government of the Republic, took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday 15 October 2019. Kalle Grünthal, Siim Kiisler, Oudekki Loone, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur, Vilja Toomast, Andrei Korobeinik were present from the members of the committee. Mr Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, and Mr Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, were also invited. There the subject was discussed and the questions answered. The debate was quite thorough and, at times, a bit emotional. Mr Aeg presented to the Commission the draft law implementing the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Citizens' Initiative. He noted that the new Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council is an important amendment to European Union law, which also concerns Estonia, so it is necessary to make the corresponding adjustments to Estonian law. Article 11 (4) of the Treaty on European Union provides that at least one million citizens of the European Union from a significant number of Member States have the right to request the European Commission to submit a legislative proposal for the implementation of the Treaties on which the European Union is founded. Four initiatives have been submitted to the European Commission since the application of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the citizens' initiative adopted in 2011 and have all been successful. The Minister said that the purpose of the mechanism was to increase democratic legitimacy in the countries of the European Union. To this end, the Riigikogu also adopted the Act on the Implementation of the Regulation in 2013. Estonia has an analogous institution in the form of collective appeals. In September 2017, the European Commission presented a proposal for a Regulation on a European Citizens' Initiative in the framework of the Democracy Package, driven by the need to increase citizens' participation in the democratic life of the European Union. The draft provides for a reduction in the minimum age for the signature of a declaration of intent for a citizens' initiative from the age of 18 to the age of 16, as the Minister emphasised here today. Mr Aeg mentioned that Member States are not in fact obliged to lower the age limit, but they are obliged to discuss this proposal in Parliament. Bringing the age limit down has been discussed in Estonia before, for example during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the reduction of the age limit of 18-year-olds to 16-year-olds was discussed. At the time, this idea also found the support of the Government of the Republic. Kalle Grünthal examined whether the desire to lower the age limit could be motivated by the fact that the use of children to push through different ideologies in society is very successful. Mr Jõeorg-Jurtshenko replied that the main reason for amending the Regulation was the analysis of interim implementation practice and the highlighting of bottlenecks. On this basis, the European Commission decided that to make the measure more effective, it was necessary to simplify it and to assist groups of organisers of the citizens' initiative in all ways. Mr Puustusmaa said that the appointment of the Ministry of the Interior as a national contact point to assist the citizens' initiative was a perfectly sensible idea, but reducing the age limit was questionable. In his opinion, involving children in politics is not a good idea, as children are not mature enough to decide for themselves, it is also easier to ignite and politically influence the child. According to Pulpland, there is a risk of using children to promote negative ideologies and he is opposed to involving children in politics. Oudekki Loone said that he felt that a 16-year-old person was no longer a child and that this was also demonstrated by the right of 16-year-olds to participate in the local government council. According to Oudekki Loone, the 16-year-old youth is not affected by the fact that 16-year-old youth has not been very active in municipal elections so far. Oudekki Loone stated that the citizens' initiative was not actually comparable to the election, since the citizens' initiative could also be created in such a way that it directly affects only young people. The citizens' initiative is therefore narrower than the electoral right as a whole. Oudekki Loone said that he did not necessarily see the problem of reducing the age limit, as a 16-year-old person has passed civic education and is often able and willing to contribute to issues relating to the bottlenecks of society. Oudekki Loone asked why the Ministry of the Interior wanted to appoint the National Contact Point. Raivo Aeg explained that since the Ministry of the Interior has so far helped and gained competence in this area, it would also be right to give this responsibility to the Ministry. The time also said that there is no need to fear that Estonia will become an active country after the change in the citizens' initiative, as so far, citizens' initiatives have not been submitted on a massive basis to correct European Union law. The Minister noted that the draft was submitted to the Estonian Youth Association, which was also approved. The Commission decided to propose that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 22 October. It was also decided to close the first reading of the draft and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 5 November 2019 at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U57	Thank you. Dear waitress, your speech was so perfect that there are no questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu or political groups wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 74. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 5 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U58	Today's fifth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U59	Dear Deputy Speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I come before you with a draft law amending the VAT law 76 and I will give you a brief overview of what we want to change. The proposed amendments to the draft act relate to amendments to the VAT Directive, which will enter into force on 1 January 2020, which are of the following nature: Firstly, tax rules are introduced for demand-side stocks. This is a simplification for the company. Upon demand, the reserve shall be the goods delivered by the seller to a warehouse in another Member State until the buyer buys them out of storage. Until the goods are delivered to the buyer, the seller is the owner of the goods. Under the current rules, the seller of the goods must register in another Member State as liable for VAT and declare the sale of the goods in that other country as domestic sales. The amendment now proposed does not create a tax liability for the seller of the goods in another Member State. The sale of goods is declared and taxed in the country where the seller is established, for example, in Estonia, as intra-Community turnover, i.e. with a VAT rate of 0 per cent. In another Member State, it shall not be obliged to register or report such a transaction. Secondly, we want to change the tax treatment of chain transactions. In the case of chain transactions, these are successive disposals of the same goods, i.e. a chain of transactions, the goods being delivered directly from the first transferor to the last customer of the goods in another Member State. In the chain of transactions, the transaction in which the goods are transferred to another Member State is taxable at a rate of 0%. The remaining transactions in the chain are treated as domestic turnover. The amendment to the Directive aims at harmonising the tax practices of chain transactions in the Member States, which are currently different and can therefore lead to double taxation or non-taxation of transactions. If there's any questions, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U60	No questions for you. Minister, thank you. I now request Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U61	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Finance Committee discussed the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic in preparation for the first reading, including on 8 October. The Minister of Finance, Martin Helme, presented the purpose and content of the draft and noted that the draft law amending the VAT Act was the result of a directive. The members of the Commission asked questions, to which they also received answers. The Commission took three consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 22 October, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 5 November at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint a rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U62	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you either. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. This concludes the first reading of draft 76 and sets the deadline for submitting amendments, including 5 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U63	Today's sixth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws. I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to serve as a waitress. Hopefully he'll be here any minute. We are not taking a break because the Minister is operationally present, he has done all the necessary interim work. Bill 80. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U64	80 SE is a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws. The proposed draft reduces the planned 10% increase in excise duty on cigarettes to 5% by 2020. Perhaps, in essence, a smaller increase is being made than planned in order to reduce the pressure on border trade towards Latvia resulting from the price difference. It also provides for an increase in excise duty of 5% for the period 2021 to 2023. The increase in excise duties follows the general objective of increasing excise duty in line with the growth of the population's incomes, which is important for health protection. The fall in excise duty on cigarettes is expected to reduce excise and VAT revenues from tobacco products by around EUR 6 million next year. However, there will be no further revenue reduction and an additional EUR 7 million will be received in 2022. The price of cigarettes will increase from 4.09 euros to 4.27 euros per package next year. As a significant change, the production limit for small brewers will be increased from the current 0.6 million litres to 1.5 million litres. This year, an entrepreneur, a craft brewer, has specifically exceeded the production limit of a small producer provided for in the Act. There will be more entrepreneurs next year who will cross this border. The change is important for companies to make longer-term investment plans. As the increase in the production volume of small brewers is largely attributable to exports, this change will not have a significant impact on excise revenue for the following year. In addition, the principles of fiscal labelling of excise goods are further clarified in order to exclude the storage of non-taxed goods outside the excise warehouse. As alternative tobacco products are not subject to excise duty on a compulsory basis in the European Union, tax labelling in excise warehouses is required for better monitoring purposes. A change of technical nature shall include a heated tobacco product. For the purposes of cigarettes and smoking tobacco, the reference to a heated tobacco product is deleted as their operators do not consider it appropriate to classify the products as smoking tobacco products. It is proposed to define more precisely the tobacco products to be heated in the Excise Act if the relevant directive in the area of tobacco excise duties is amended in general. In the meantime, an additional provision in the Excise Act under which tobacco products intended for consumption by heating are subject to the provisions on smoking tobacco is sufficient for us. Thank you for your attention. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U65	Thank you. You really do have questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U66	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Do you consider it appropriate to load 2 000 percent of the tobacco excise on e-liquids from 1 July last year? Has the Ministry found that this has not brought the expected benefits, but has deepened the black market and border trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U67	Thank you. Of course, this draft does not deal with e-liquids. I do not have such calculations here at the moment, and I have the feeling that we do not have such an assessment or analysis of a particular type of excise revenue. I can say that this share of e-liquids represents a very small proportion of excise revenue, and I think that the so-called state budget effect is extremely small either way. However, I agree that we must monitor the risks of border trade very closely and, if they materialise, we must also respond adequately quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U68	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U69	Thank you! Good waitress! The position of the Ministry of Finance regarding the uniform and broad-based taxation of e-liquids was such a justification, since nicotine-free products are diluted into nicotine-containing products, which theoretically means that we tax tonics, lemonade, juice and everything else that can be diluted in alcohol. Are you still in the position that this is reasonable, or would you support nicotine-based taxation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U70	Thank you. In general, I thought we would have this debate here on this draft. Once again, this draft does not deal with these issues. And this, let's say, the carrier of the debate is not really the Ministry of Finance, but the Ministry of Social Affairs, who has also made these proposals. Firstly, this draft does not concern any of these issues at all. And this debate on how to handle and tax e-liquids, flavours and also flavours of heated products is considerably higher. I am not taking a position here, because I believe that this dispute has not been fully debated either inside the party or within the coalition. This bill doesn't concern it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U71	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I actually have a question about tobacco and alcohol, but we all know that something like mocha tobacco has spread very widely. Is there a plan to legitimise it and tax it at some point?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U73	Thank you. Well, to be perfectly honest, he should not be widespread in Estonia in any way because he is not allowed in Estonia. In Europe, I think, if I remember correctly, there is one exception, that is Sweden. It is not permitted to be used in any other country. Is that reasonable or not? I think this is a fundamental political debate. Well, his health-damaging product is just like all those other things subject to excise duty. As a non-smokers in principle, I cannot imagine how much more beneficial or harmful mocha tobacco can be compared to other tobacco products. I see no interest or desire in the government at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U74	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. And now I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U75	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws at its meeting on 8 October. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, Heidi Vessel, Chief Specialist of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance and Kadri Klaos, analyst of the Fiscal Policy Department, were invited. Minister of Finance Martin Helme presented the purpose and content of the draft and the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs asked questions to which they also received answers. The Commission took three consensual decisions: to propose a draft to be put on the plenary agenda by 22 October, to propose a deadline of 10 working days for amendments, i.e. 5 November at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint a rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U76	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. That concludes the first reading of Bill 80. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 5 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U77	Today's seventh item is the first reading of the Bill 59 on Amendment of the Defence Forces Service Act and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U78	Dear Deputy Speaker! Good ambassadors! I bring before you a draft law amending the law on military service and other laws dealing with special pensions. The purpose of the draft is to concentrate the state budget resources for all special pensions and the public prosecutor's work capacity benefit in a single programme in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, where the monthly payout of special pensions and the public prosecutor's work capacity benefit is located, i.e. the Social Insurance Institution of the service provider. From the state budget of 2020 onwards, all special pensions and the annual payout of the prosecutor's work capacity benefit will only be reflected in the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs' area of government and its work processes. The special pension and the work capacity allowance of the prosecutor in the draft in question represent the share of the state budget paid from other resources paid to the person in addition to those paid from the state pension insurance funds and regardless of how it is mentioned in the relevant special law. The draft amends the Defence Forces Service Act, the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act, the Law on the Courts, the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, the Law on the National Audit Office, the Act on the amendment of the Employment Capacity Support Act and the related amendment of other laws and the Law on the Chancellor of Justice. Regulation will be amended to remove the obligation to plan special pensions to be paid and the public prosecutor's capacity to work in the budget of a specific public authority. This is the opportunity for the transition to an activity-based budget that will take place in the area of government of all ministries from 1 January 2020. In the future, special pensions and the public prosecutor's work capacity benefit are planned only by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Pre-work based on personnel accounting is done by the State Support Services Centre, only the area of government of the Ministry of Defence makes the calculation of its special pensions itself, due to the special requirements for processing data, and transmits the corresponding aggregated data to the State Support Services Centre. In turn, RTK will provide all the data to the Ministry of Social Affairs, who plans the funds needed to pay out to the state budget. Thus, the change in the regulation of special pensions and of the public prosecutor's capacity to work benefits affects only the tasks of the various public authorities, without affecting the special pension or the rights of the person receiving the public prosecutor's capacity to work benefits or relations with the public authorities. Similarly, the previous legislation on special pensions and the professional capacity benefit of the prosecutor, which is not yet in force, will not be amended. The transition to an ABM budget will make the work processes related to budget preparation and implementation more effective in relation to special pensions and the public prosecutor's capacity to work compensation, replacing the duplication of planning of existing resources with their immediate planning. The Social Insurance Institution, as a service provider, keeps it in its own budget and there will be no budgetary transfers between these institutions in the future. As a result, budget and reporting will become more transparent and easier to take into account. The changes do not involve redeployment of public authorities, but a reorganisation of the internal functions of each institution. In the view of the state budget, the change relates only to the expenditure currently included in the budget position in the financial year payable, i.e. their calculated special pensions. The new special pension liabilities earned for the financial year shall be included in the state budget together with the rest of the pension categories at the latest in the state budget of 2022. The proposed changes to the draft will normally take effect from the national budget of 2020. Since the proposed date of entry into force of these provisions has also been taken into account in the amendments to the specific laws, the regulation relating to the Prosecutor's Office Act will enter into force from 1 July 2021. That's it for now. If you have any questions, I'll answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U79	Thank you. There are indeed questions for you. Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U80	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. My question is very short. Now, under the new regime, will the Defence Forces' pensions be included in defence expenditure or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U81	Thank you. I'm going to go over two things. Nothing changes in terms of the state budget. In terms of special pensions, nothing changes; no pension becomes larger or smaller; this draft does not concern at all. In principle, this draft concerns who will calculate and who will pay out. The question of whether the special pensions of the Defence Forces will remain in our so-called 2% of GDP is: yes, they will. Because one way or another, when calculating 2% of this budget, not only will the Ministry of Defence's budget be looked at, but it will look at the general cost classifications that NATO has put in place, whether or not, and this may not be at all related to the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U82	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I ask Urmas Espenberg, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to act as co-rapporteur. The manager's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U83	I apologise to my fellow Members for the fact that the session is not so quickly and smoothly settled, but now we can continue. Urmas Espenberg, co-rapporteur, please! The bill is 59.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U84	Yeah, things went a little faster. But I will repeat briefly the meaning of this law. The aim of the draft is to organise and harmonise the state budget planning of special pensions. Only the general provision that special pensions are planned and paid out of the state budget is maintained in the amending laws. The amendment does not affect the substantive circumstances of any special pension or professional capacity benefit for the prosecutor. Since the draft was predominantly technical and organisational, the Commission also lacked the need for a wider range of substantive discussions. Moreover, it is a draft relating to the state budget for 2020. I will give you an overview of the meeting of the Social Committee on 8 October under Protocol 19. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu was composed of Tõnis Mölder, president, members Urmas Espenberg, Hele Everaus, Liina Kersna, Tarmo Kruusimäe as an alternate member of Priit Sibula, Signe Riisalo, Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassiliev, there was no Helmen Küttt, who reviewed the draft at his meeting on 8 October as the 3rd item in the presentation by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Üllar Kaljumäe, Adviser to the State Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance, was also present. I asked the Minister about the amount of special pensions paid by the retired soldiers and the change in the rights of their recipients. The Minister replied that the content of special pensions would not change, that their appointment would still remain within the competence of the Ministry of Defence, but that disbursements would be planned in the future through the state budget and that the Social Insurance Board would remain the payer. As neither the commission nor any political group proposed to reject the draft, the Commission decided to propose that the draft be sent to first reading and recommended that it be closed without a vote. The Commission supported the deadline of 10 working days for legislative amendments. It was proposed that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 22 October and that a rapporteur be appointed. All the Commission's decisions were consensual. Protocol Terle Kask.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U85	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 59 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 5 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U86	Let's go to the last item on the agenda today. First reading 36th reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group. Mr Kaja Kallas, member of the Riigikogu, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U87	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Reform Party Group proposes to supplement the Riigikogu Labour and Rules of Procedure Act with § 1561. This addition brings regular hearings of the members of the Government of the Republic to the practice of the Riigikogu, during which a systematic overview of what is happening under the responsibility of ministers is given. What is the point of this proposal? The Riigikogu and the government share a common responsibility and shared responsibility for the Republic of Estonia. We are two different sides of the same medal, even though our roles are completely different. Our roles must be balanced and interconnected. In addition to the role of legislator, the Riigikogu also has the role of highest supervisor over the work of the government. Unfortunately, the Riigikogu now has a rather incomplete and sometimes random view of the work of the executive power. Individual ministers come before us, for example, the Minister of Finance comes with a state budget and the Minister of Foreign Affairs comes with a foreign policy development plan. While individual ministers present themselves to the Riigikogu with regular reviews, other ministers are examined either in connection with enquiries or even in connection with crises, sometimes also with legislative proposals. The proposal we have tabled would make it more comprehensive and systematic to get an overview of responsibilities. This, in turn, is an opportunity for ministers to explain their policies and receive support for them. The implementation of our proposal gives the Riigikogu the opportunity to reject accusations of being a rubber stamp, as well as to have a say in government. I will conclude by quoting the classics: this is a very good draft. Ladies and gentlemen, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U88	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U89	Good manager! Good waitress! I think it's a great bill, but here's some nuances. Ministers come here all the time to answer us, but my question is why a member of the Riigikogu can only ask one question if there is an overview of the subject, for example, why there should not be two questions. Shouldn't some other high-ranking government officials, such as the head of the Defence Police, etc., be able to give an overview of their activities here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U90	Thanks for the questions. I'll start with the last one. Many representatives of the higher institutions already come here, such as the Chancellor of Justice and the Governor of Eesti Pank, with annual reviews. I do not think that this could certainly be applied to all the representatives of the authorities, because, for example, the work of the defence police can be very much involved in things that cannot be said so openly. As we know, what is happening in the big hall is public to all listeners. We also have a wide range of hearing formats on the committees for representatives of the authorities, so we will listen to the Prosecutor General in the Legal Committee, for example, and all committees will certainly be able to invite officials to take stock of themselves. Our bill only concerns ministers. Coming to your first question, why couldn't there be two questions, we proposed that there be one question, but you can propose an amendment so that there are more questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U91	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! The draft submitted by you was also discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and was introduced by Riigikogu member Siim Kallas. I referred there to some technical shortcomings in the draft, for example certain activities are contradictory to each other. How do you assess whether or not there are technical inconsistencies in this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U92	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U93	If you had specified in your question the technical contradiction you have in mind, I might be able to comment more precisely. In itself, this draft is very simple in design, written as a simple text. It is always more difficult to write simple text than to write complicated text. Maybe you'll specify your question, then I can give you a more precise answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U94	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Still is. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U95	I'll specify my question, if you'll excuse me. First of all, the first paragraph reads 'A member of the Government of the Republic shall submit an overview once a year at the Riigikogu meeting', while the second paragraph reads in your draft 'Wishing to present an overview... '. I mean, there's one sentence here, like in compulsory form, and the other in this voluntary form.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U96	Thank you. There is no technical contradiction here, because paragraph 2 says that this time can be chosen by a minister, or a member of the government. In case he's okay with the time, he's gonna file a request. So the first paragraph is that the minister has an obligation to come to the Riigikogu with this review, and the second paragraph is about what it will look like. It is not the Riigikogu that is submitting an invitation, but the member of the Government of the Republic will present his wish to come with a report so that he can fit in this year and be able to come at the time that suits him. Apparently, then, the board will process it and set the appropriate time. So I don't see a technical contradiction here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U97	Thank you. Now you really have no further questions. I would like to ask for a co-rapporteur from the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Lauri Läänemets.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U98	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The debate was very short, because the draft itself is also very short and understandable to everyone. The main substantive question raised in the Commission was the one that Kalle Grünthal has just asked about. The author replied that if there really was a technical problem, it would certainly be possible to refine the wording. The Commission was satisfied with this response. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs unanimously supported the completion of the first reading of this draft and proposed that the deadline for the submission of amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 5 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-22_U99	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 5 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 12.02 a.m.
