ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! [[It's ringing the bell.]] Let's stop buzzing and get to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U2	First of all, we have the oath of the Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology, Kert Kingo, on our agenda today. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U4	Thank you and congratulations! Now the Bureau is gratefully prepared to adopt drafts and enquiries if there are any. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U5	Honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Riigikogu! In March 2011, I became a member of the XII Riigikogu and took the oath to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Today, eight years later, I wish to announce my resignation from 21 May 2019. I remain loyal to the Republic of Estonia and our constitutional order, but my political career and work in the Riigikogu will be over here. The reason for my resignation is to take up the position of CEO of the Estonian Employers' Confederation. I would like to sincerely thank all my assistants, competitors, officials of Toompea Castle and members of the Riigikogu, especially the political group members from the Reform Party. It has been incredibly interesting, industrious, and instructive years. Thank you very much, everyone. I'll see you again, but then I'll be in a new role. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U6	Next up, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U7	For my part, I thank Arto! However, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you. The issues that have not been completed during the previous Riigikogu must now be discussed during the term of office of the new Riigikogu and the new government. One of these issues is the availability of sign language translation in the future. Estonian sign language is the mother tongue or the main language of communication for about one and a half thousand people in our society and interpreters are necessary for them to solve everyday domestic problems, but also to ensure that they have access to education, work and elsewhere. These are their constitutional rights. The problem is that the University of Tartu, where sign language translation was trained, graduated a few years ago, i.e. in 2016. And so far, there is no solution. That is why I am submitting an inquiry on behalf of the 19 representatives of the Reform Party to the Minister for Education and I hope that, in cooperation, we will find a solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U8	Thank you very much. There are no further inquiries or drafts. The Bureau adopts this draft with gratitude and directs it in accordance with the law. Now there are some messages. Following the end of the plenary session, the following start-up meetings will take place in this Chamber: the Estonian-Egypt Parliamentary Group, the convener Oudekki Loone; the Support Group Aware Estonia, the convener Yoko Alender. Another message: next week there will be an Question Hour in this Chamber for Riigikogu guests in the framework of Riigikogu Open Doors Day. In this context, I would ask you to remove from your drawers and desks any material that might be sensitive. And now we're going to do a presence check. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 21 members of the Riigikogu missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U9	Today I have to say that this is not the end of the trial. We have the agenda and there are four items on the agenda, the first of which is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Special Committee on Auditing the National Budget' (11 OE) submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The rapporteur is Mr Jaak Madison, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U10	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Special Committee on the Control of State Budget' was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 14 May. No amendments to the draft were tabled within the deadline, and consequently the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the draft be subject to a final vote. This proposal was born by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U11	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? No questions asked. Would anyone like to take the floor? I don't see any requests to speak either. No amendments were received. Therefore, pursuant to § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Establishment of a special committee on control of state budgets' (11 OE). Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, no abstentions, 7 people did not participate. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U12	The next item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on which no amendments were tabled either. The rapporteur is again Jaak Madison, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U13	Thank you again to the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of this draft took place on the same day as the debate on the previous draft, on 14 May. And in the case of this draft, it was proposed by consensus that a final vote be taken. No amendments were tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U14	Any questions for the waitress? No questions asked. Does anyone want to talk about the Chair of the Riigikogu? I don't see it either. As no amendments were tabled, according to § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs, I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of a Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities' (12 OE) submitted by the Constitutional Committee. Please take a stand and vote. This time 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, no abstentions, 6 members of the Riigikogu did not participate. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U15	The next and third draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: it is about setting up a special committee against corruption. The bill is number 13 and it has a second reading. The rapporteur is again Jaak Madison, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U16	Thank you for the third time to the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of this draft also took place on 14 May and, as in previous cases, a final vote was proposed by consensus. No amendments were received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U17	Anyone want to ask the waitress a question? No, I don't. Is there a wish to make a speech? I don't see a wish either. As no amendments were tabled, I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a Special Committee against Corruption (13 OE) submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. The vote is closed. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, there were no respondents or abstentions, 5 members of the Riigikogu did not participate. Draft 13 has been adopted as a decision. Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U18	All right, ladies and gentlemen. Now we go to the fourth item on today's agenda. This is the annual report of the Financial Supervision Authority for 2018. Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Board of the Financial Supervision Authority, is invited to act as rapporteur. There is a maximum of 20 minutes for the presentation, following questions and negotiations. Please, Mr. Waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U19	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! According to the Financial Supervision Act, we submitted the annual report of the inspection to the Riigikogu. The annual report covers the most important events, trends and actions in the Estonian financial market and financial supervision that took place in 2018. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I am pleased to present the annual report of the Financial Supervision Authority and to introduce it to you. I would also like to wish the XIV Riigikogu the strength and wisdom of the Financial Supervision Authority. To begin with, I will give a brief overview of which institution is the Financial Supervision Authority, and then I will focus on the strengths of the Estonian financial market, what we have well. I will end with the risks and bottlenecks we see and sense at the Financial Supervision Authority. Due to time constraints, a choice needs to be made among the topics to be addressed. The Financial Supervision Authority is a joint institution between the Estonian state and the central bank. We stand separate from the system of ministries and their agencies, thus ensuring the necessary independence of supervisory activities in accordance with international standards. The Financial Supervision Authority supervises the banking, insurance and securities markets. We need to check about 450 you heard correctly! Approximately 180 larger subjects are supervised to comply with the legislation and the guide. We perform our duties with 87 employees, thus being the smallest financial supervisory authority in the European Union in the number of employees. The stability and credibility of the financial market are central to the law of the Financial Supervision Authority. The Estonian market has remained relatively stable. Market participants are solvent, thus instilling confidence in people that the financial market can successfully fulfil the role of the circulation and risk carrier of its economy. Estonia was one of only four European Union countries which were not required to support their banks and other financial intermediaries in the 2008 financial crisis. Estonian society did not spend a cent on this, in contrast to the billions of euros that our friends in other parts of Europe contributed. The Financial Supervision Authority is not a consumer body, a dispute resolution body or a court that settles disputes between consumers and providers of specific financial services. We protect the interests of depositors, policyholders and others by verifying the compliance of financial intermediaries with the law and their adequacy to the business model applied and the risks assumed. This is how we protect all consumers at once. The Financial Supervision Authority is not a investigating authority which, in the event of a suspected criminal offence, carries out criminal proceedings, collects evidence and represents the charge in court. Our role as financial supervisor is significantly different from that of research institutions. For example, with regard to the risk of money laundering, we assess, for the sake of financial market stability and reliability, whether the risk control organisations of banks or OFI are adequate for their business, the risks they take. Figuratively speaking, we will assess whether the internal barriers of the bank or the paying agency are sufficiently high to be overcome by ill-meaning customers. This regulation is not digitally accurate, allowing for the immediate identification of weak systems. Much depends on the quality of the information, the willingness of the subject to cooperate, the methodology to be applied and, in particular, the experience of monitoring. It is with the latter that we will help research institutions, if possible and if necessary, to break down complex financial market infringements. In my opinion, cooperation, and in particular the two-way exchange of information between different public authorities, is very important in order to be able to deal with risks in a comprehensive manner. The main tasks of the financial supervisory authority are to direct supervisors to better control and manage their risks. For this purpose, we have a number of tools in the law, in particular, to decide on obligations and limitations concerning subjects. For example, an annual additional capital requirement for banks, preceded by a procedure lasting nearly one year. In this process, the bank's business model, governance, all risk areas and financing will be assessed. It will then be interpreted as scores, adjusted and the additional capital requirement will be raised to cover risks. We also assess the compliance of the holders of significant holdings and members of the management bodies of financial intermediaries with the requirements of the law, and quite often questions of the person's reputation or financial capacity need to be considered. Bank groups make up a large part of the Estonian financial market. A distinction can be made between three or four larger universal banks and smaller banks. The common denominator of all of them is a very strong capitalisation. Loan losses are low, so banks have credited responsibly. There can also be no reproach for the overall level of digitalisation. From the perspective of the euro area, the Estonian banking sector is one of the highest digitised. Last year, as one of the few banking supervisors in Europe, we tested online. This means testing online banking under controlled conditions in different situations, including cyber attacks. The results were better than expected, and the bank immediately addressed the weaknesses. We also see the desire to address other areas that need improvement and encourage banks to invest in it. This year, the cross-border merger of many different credit institutions in Estonia created Luminor. This is the largest bank in Estonia, which also includes risks from Latvia and Lithuania. The banking portfolios of these countries are even larger than those of Estonia. This means that supervision must also be able to recognise and control cross-border risks, including crisis prevention and resolution. The financial supervisors and other players in the Baltic, Scandinavian and European Union put their backs together last year and played through the theoretical regional financial crisis at the beginning of this year. Like the Defence Forces, financial supervisory authorities have good practice from time to time or test their abilities. The results of the exercise have been analysed and bottlenecks screened, feedback given to the parties. As a general assessment, the Estonian authorities who participated in the game did well to carry out their tasks. The year 2018 had a symbolic meaning for the euro area as a whole, as the European Central Bank decided to withdraw Versobank's authorisation after careful consideration, on the basis of a statement by the Financial Supervision Authority. This credit institution had for a long time violated the rules on the prevention of money laundering and ignored the instructions of the supervisory authority to improve its activities. The European Central Bank had never taken a licence from any bank on such grounds, which is why this process had a symbolic meaning. Estonia gave a very strong signal here that Estonia does not like banks active in suspicious business. Years earlier, 2015 Danske Bank was forced to close the same business because of the activities of the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority. The fact is that there were no banks closed in Estonia in the 21st century and the experience in the Financial Supervision Authority was almost gone. The successful, smooth settlement of the Versobank case in cooperation with the Guarantee Fund and the reimbursement of deposits showed that the Estonian crisis management framework works to resolve such cases. Cooperation between national parties was smooth. On the other hand, bottlenecks, such as the need for greater integration of the work of the Financial Supervision Authority and the Guarantee Fund, also emerged. That is what we are already dealing with. Let's talk about risks and weaknesses, too. There's two of them. As regards the prevention of money laundering, the Financial Supervision Authority implemented a special project in addition to routine supervision from autumn 2018 to spring 2019 in order to control all banks providing payment services operating in Estonia. On the positive side, we found that the risks associated with serving non-residents have decreased. Most banks take further risk reduction and better risk control seriously. However, there are weaknesses in banks' systems and risk sensitivity to risk controls. Simply and figuratively, in the fight against money laundering, Aunt Maal is measured in the same way as for some arms exporters. On the other hand, it seems that at the same time the individual higher risks have sometimes been neglected. However, the legislation, as well as the Financial Supervision Authority, wants to see risk-sensitive control systems where major potential risks can be dealt with in greater detail, but known common customers less easily. I would say even more simply: what the Financial Supervision Authority wants is professional banking, nothing more. However, the current systems are very mechanistic and at the same time vulnerable. Banks have good profits and there is no reason not to invest in the necessary systems, making them even the best of their kind and thus supporting the image of e-Estonia. Second. Since 2004, we have consistently pointed out to our partners that financial penalties in the financial sector are not effective. While these have increased over time from EUR 3200 to EUR 32000 and even up to EUR 400000, these amounts do not deter large, professional financial intermediaries. Let me explain. You see, in our toolbox, the so-called punitive framework has two tasks. Firstly, to discourage bankers and other financial intermediaries so that they do not take excessive risks would not violate the law. There cannot be a cost-effective breach of law for a banker; such action must be clearly non-profitable, or fines must outweigh what they deserve. Secondly, there is compensation to society for breaching the public good. The financial world, in addition to everything, consumes our common value just trust and good reputation. As vital cases show, a financial intermediary can serve properly by taking excessive risks or even violating our laws. If the risks are realized, our common property, our good reputation, will be damaged, and such damage in monetary terms can be very, very, albeit difficult to assess. Only up to EUR 32000 or EUR 400000 could be charged for damages, depending on the circumstances. And what is at least the same nonsense: in the case of cross-border activities, the society with the highest levels of fines would be most protected. There is no doubt that the fine rates in Estonia need to be substantially increased in order to fulfil the task assigned to them. I believe most of us are parents in this hall. We therefore know that such naughtyness, when a child has violated agreements, must be responded at the earliest reasonable opportunity. Let's get out front and explain. Surely we do not think for a week or a month and do not react when a child does not remember a long time ago. But that is the effect of the misdemeanour procedure in the financial sector. The framework for the misdemeanour procedure has been set up to deal with simple infringements and to protect ordinary citizens. In the financial sector, however, infringements are generally very multifaceted and offenders are aware of the sector, have sufficient resources and are capable financial intermediaries. Together with the dogmatics cocktail of liability of legal persons in Estonian penal law, the result is a very complex (read: very expensive) and long-term procedure. That is the opinion of the Financial Supervision Authority, which we have been expressing for five years now. This procedure is not working. It should be thrown into the trash and replaced by a simpler procedure. We plan to propose a draft proposal to the Committee on Government Against Money Laundering. A few other important agencies and inspections have expressed positions similar to those of our view. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The central tasks of the Financial Supervision Authority are to maintain financial stability and to ensure the fair and transparent functioning of financial markets as a whole. The 2018 Annual Book of the Financial Supervision Authority, which has been made available to you, describes the performance of these tasks during the financial year 2018, the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority in 16. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U20	Thank you, dear waitress. There's a way to ask questions. Aivar Sõerd, first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, thank you for your presentation. It was extremely interesting. I want to ask you about what you ended up with, maybe fines. As far as Danske's case is concerned, the penalty seems to be limited to criminal punishment of natural persons. But a foreign credit institution does not pay any financial compensation for the damage caused. He hasn't been fined, he hasn't been sued. However, the Danish State has paid a fine and has also made provisions for actions. Are you really suggesting that there are no levers to impose financial sanctions against a foreign credit institution that operates in Estonia through its branch for infringements of this weight?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U22	Thank you, Mr Sõerd, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Perhaps I will first explain how Danske Bank acted in Estonia and what the framework will be in place for this form of action. Secondly, perhaps briefly about what could or could be fined. Danske Bank operated and still operates in Estonia in the form of a branch. He should be out of business pretty soon, this year. The Financial Supervision Authority decided on this on 19 February. As far as the current form of action is concerned, according to European Union rules, banks have the right to operate in two or three forms in another EU Member State. I'm mainly talking about two. The first is that they establish their subsidiary. It is a separate legal entity. For example, Swedbank operates in this form in Estonia; the Swedish bank has a subsidiary here. Danske Bank operates here in the form of a branch. Why am I talking about this? In the case of a branch, the main responsibility for banking supervision lies with the financial supervision of Denmark. What does that mean? I explained in my presentation how each bank is assessed every year. Any bank may, where appropriate, be required, depending on its risk profile, to provide additional capital to cover these risks. As I understand it, Mr Sõerd pointed out that Denmark, like Danske, has already fined the bank. It is true that in May, the financial supervision of Denmark decided that Danske Bank had to set aside capital to cover its additional risks. It is sometimes expressed in English in such a way that it is like a capital fine or a fine that it is lost in translation. Such things can also be done in Estonia. Financial supervision is competent for those subjects who are supervised by the supervisory authority in Estonia. Branches with capital fines I told you about are beyond our jurisdiction. That's one. Now from the so-called apparatus or toolbox that the Financial Supervision Authority has at its disposal. What kind of financial penalties can be imposed in the meaning of Estonian law, that is what I have already talked about. These fines really are up to EUR 400000, which perhaps is not a very high amount. But I didn't talk about the crimes that the inspection doesn't deal with being dealt with by the prosecutor's office and the police, the investigation authorities. And the penalties for crimes may also be more severe than EUR 400000 under the Penal Code. But for potential crimes, I am not competent to respond because their processing is not within the jurisdiction of the Financial Supervision Authority. Ultimately, these decisions will be made by the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U23	The next questioner is Urmas Kruuse. In the meantime, I would like to remind you that everyone has the opportunity to ask a question; in the case of official reports, it is regulated in § 155. One question, one minute. So please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Continuing on the subject of my colleague, I would like to say that the problem is that when it comes to a branch, it seems that if the state's reputation is damaged by a branch, the penalty levers are relatively short. That seems unfair. But my question is rather driven by the concerns of many small businesses, ordinary customers. After changing the anti-money laundering law, they sense the loss of personal service in banks. The idea has arisen that maybe unjustified obstacles are being put on them to carry out their business. How can you respond so that there are no unjustified obstacles to your business?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U25	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for this good question. As we identified in our extraordinary market map from autumn 2018 to April 2019, the situation in the banking sector seems to be such that risk control systems, which discourage or should counter the risks associated with money laundering, need to be developed. They are not very risk sensitive, as I have already said, are quite mechanistic. Different risks and sources of risk are treated fairly uniformly. And unfortunately, from time to time, the subject of such mechanistic treatment also falls into the hands of individuals who do not deserve it. That's a fact. We have signalled this in the same mapping, where we met basically the heads of all banks operating in Estonia. We then talked about these risks and put the banks at their heart to invest in their risk control systems, to be risk-sensitive, to deal with real sources of money laundering in the way they have to be dealt with, and to allow small businesses or pensioners or just ordinary citizens to be treated differently, according to their risk profile. This has been our very clear request to the banks. I'll tell you one more thing. When we received the first signals a few years ago that banks seem to be harassing certain businesses, we did one cross-market mapping. What did this map show back then? It showed that in general, banks would either terminate their banking relationship or refuse to open an account for certain companies if there were very specific reasons. The first bulwark is the banks themselves. After all, every customer is a business for them, and such decisions are not made easily. But as recently read in the paper, from time to time there are such failures in the banking system. I think they have now become aware of these issues, but there will be no overnight system conversion. It takes a little time and a lot of money. Let's see which way the trends or developments are going. But thank you for bringing this to my attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U26	Thank you. My colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Killer Kessler! The Annual Statistical Table of the Financial Supervision Authority also states how many complaints have been made about financial services. You will find in your report that their number has increased: 196. I don't know if it's big or small and how much it's grown. But the complaints are different. They are about settlements, execution of payment transactions, percentage rates of charge, etc., etc. You're saying it's private contracts. However, I ask what this growth is talking about. Are customers smarter and bolder, or are there more rule-sneakers? What kind of generalisation can be made from this table?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U28	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Starting with what is our competence under the Financial Supervision Authority Act, I will explain once again that we will not resolve disputes between a particular consumer and a service provider. However, we have taken the heart of trying to reconcile the parties. That means we'll look into the facts of the complaint, ask our subject what it is about, if they can explain. And it has also been said that they will reach a reasonable compromise thanks to our actions. There may be different motivations behind complaints. You mentioned one thing: people are more aware of their rights, they are more courageous to ask financial intermediaries to understand, seeing that supervision can also support them. That's one factor. Another factor is that the content and number of complaints vary at the top and bottom of the economic cycles. At the bottom of the economic cycle, they are of a different nature, at the top of the economic cycle. I have a classic example. I don't name any names, but it describes the nature of these complaints. Some time ago, during the economic cycle, we had the financial crisis in 2007-2008. The year 2007 was a big boom. One person complained to us at the top of the boom in 2006-07 why a well-known bank would not give him a credit card. It was kind of unfair. But the bank had a reason. That complaint was dismissed. A few years passed, 2008 and 2009 arrived with their financial crisis. The same person complained to us again and lamented why the bank gave him a credit card, and now he is unable to fulfill his duties. This is how to quantify and fix certain trends, but not always. For us, these complaints are one of the inputs in planning our supervisory activities. If we receive a very large number of complaints of one kind about a financial supervisory entity, then we usually base it on an on-the-spot check. But I don't want to speculate about why this number is going to increase sometimes. Certainly higher awareness is one important moment indeed. People are just braver and better aware of their rights. And there's some kind of 'guilty' in it, or inspection. We have our own website Myraha.ee, where we provide people with information on how to protect their rights, what rights they have, etc. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U29	Thank you. Mr Jürgen Ligi, next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U30	Thank you. Mr. Kessler! The Financial Supervision Authority has managed to link malicious people primarily to the word'money laundering'. It is precisely as well that malicious people have succeeded in linking political parties with the word'money laundering'. Yesterday, the Prime Minister also stepped up on this issue and overturned these connections, but the fact is that such an indictment scheme is that somebody ever made a payment on it. That kind of conspiracy theory makes me ask about this particular subject. Please tell us what the Financial Supervision Authority's ability to control money laundering has been in the last ten years and how it has been used by the Financial Supervision Authority. Just in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U31	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. Now, in ten years, I will probably have to maintain a certain level of generalisation in this approach. I will start with what is the role of the Financial Supervision Authority in the anti-money laundering system. Secondly, perhaps a few words about what we are doing in ten years. That would be enough for now. What is the prevention of money laundering in Estonia anyway? You see, the point is that when criminals, especially organized criminals, do their bad things, they usually do it for profit. In the United States, the concept has come from the time of the dry law that if criminals are given the opportunity to use their income in any way, buy real estate or any other property or rights with this money, then perhaps their motivation to engage in crime will also be reduced. The root of the fight against money laundering is the fight against crime and this process has evolved. There are international organisations that set standards in these areas, etc. In Estonia, several institutions have been introduced by law to deal with this area of activity, to prevent money laundering or to deal with it. The first item is the Financial Intelligence Unit. According to the law, its main function is to prevent money laundering, as well as strategic analysis. The Bureau has different competences: the right to collect information, the right to freeze bank accounts, etc. Banks have to report their suspicious transactions to the FIU. The FIU is one of the sub-offices in the police and border guard system. The prosecutor's office and the police are also very important players in this structure. They investigate, collect evidence, prosecute specific money laundering offences, specific terrorist financing offences. Of course, then the court will enforce justice and decide whether or not someone is guilty. The third party in this system, because the word'money' is in play, is the Financial Inspectorate. I have already explained what the role of the Financial Supervision Authority is in this case. It does not deal with individual doubts but ensures that its supervised subjects, for example banks, have organised their work in such a way as to have reasonable barriers. Why do I say'reasonable barriers'? Because there are no very simple digital black and white barriers in the law, but there should be and function some reasonable barriers. Now I'm going back with my story. I referred to an international organisation whose name is short for FATF. It's a global organization, it's got bigger jurisdictions. This FATF sets global standards to prevent money laundering. These standards have changed over time. One major change in FATF standards was made in 2012. As the FATF approached the prevention of money laundering on a so-called "compliance" basis, it was decided from 2012 that supervision against money laundering in the financial sector should be carried out on a risk-based basis. I'll explain what that means. Compliance-based supervision means that the competent authority or organisation is satisfied that obliged entities, including banks, have internal rules that meet the conditions laid down by law. The laws are abstract enough. Monitoring, however, requires rules, ensures that they cover all the issues prescribed by law. This means that a particular subject meets the requirements of the law. Risk-based monitoring, remember, was introduced in FATF since 2012. Risk-based supervision means that the supervisory authority must understand the risks that the debtor must take into account. And the risk control system does not just have to comply with the requirements of the law, but needs to be able to manage the risks adequately. These bad guys can't get over the barrier, like I said before. Over the course of ten years, contributing to the prevention of money laundering has been one of the secondary objectives of the inspection, not the main objective of our activities. As I pointed out, the effect of the FATF rules has also changed the operation of the inspection over time. We have actually changed our actions even faster than international standards or, let us say, in a particular case, European Union standards have provided for it. Let me give you a simple example. The same paradigmical change of FATF in 2012 came into Estonian law when? It entered Estonian law through the Money Laundering Prevention Directive in 2017. Let us be honest, in 2014 and 2015 we would not have solved the Danske Bank case, because technically Danske Bank had rules that mostly met the requirements of the law. But what happened at Danske Bank was that the implementation of these internal rules was not able to adequately address the risks that Danske Bank had taken before 2015. Now some facts. To talk to you here about everything that's happened in ten years, I wouldn't succeed in a reasonable time. That would take quite a while. But the factory that happened in 2014, I know more or less by heart. 2014 was also the year that I took responsibility for all the activities of FI as Chairman of the Board. The proportion of non-residents in the Estonian system is determined on the basis of reports submitted to us. This was basically the only source on which we, as financial supervision, operated at the time in the fight against money laundering. A monthly deposit balance is also important. On the basis of this information, we were able to conclude in 2014 that the share of non-residents in the system was approximately 19%. The proportion of non-residents in the system is generally considered as one of the risk markers at international level, which may indicate the level of the risk of money laundering in the system. It was 19% back then. By the end of 2018, it fell to around 7%. So the decrease has been significant, the risk reduction is significant. But if you ask me if we didn't do anything before, it's not like that. The same supervision of Danske Bank has also been carried out throughout, albeit on the basis of the legal framework in force at the time and in the light of the information field known to financial supervision at the time. This is such a very brief summary of what has happened. There's one more thing worth mentioning. I have already said that financial supervision in Estonia is organisationally structured in such a way as to ensure the independence of financial supervision in accordance with international standards. International standards, for example, in Basel, say that financial supervision must be independent in its decisions. It is quite similar to that of judges who are independent in their decisions. In Estonia, I didn't explain it to you for management; I will do it very briefly at the moment, the Financial Supervision Authority has a two-tier management system. All supervisory decisions shall be taken by the collective management board by majority vote. At the moment, this board has three members. The highest level of governance is its supervisory board in the Financial Supervision Authority. According to the Act, the Supervisory Board includes the Minister of Finance and the Governor of Eesti Pank, half of the members are appointed by the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Minister of Finance and half by the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank on a proposal from the Governor of Eesti Pank. According to the law, the Council has very limited powers, or, let us say, as a closed list. His main right is to establish a strategy. It may also establish a budget, thirdly elect members of the Executive Board, and fourthly supervise the activities of the Executive Board. This is also the case, if necessary, with operations. Maybe I'll end this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U32	Thank you. Mr Heiki Hepner, next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, At the beginning of your presentation you referred to the fact that the Estonian Financial Supervision Authority has the lowest number of staff in the European Union or in Europe at all. That's what my question is about. Was it a clue that a more effective functioning in some ways would require a higher number of staff? Or is that not a problem? And if this is a problem, what are the possible solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U34	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. That's a good question! We had 87 employees at the end of 2018. Once again, I come back to the model of our organisation and I will explain how this model actually allows us to react very quickly and very flexibly to changes in the external environment. We completed the previous strategy period in 2018. We have done a small analysis of the results of our work to the Council: what are the bottlenecks, what are the risks, how we should deal with this in our organisation? On the other hand, it has now, of course, been felt in the wider sense that money laundering is an issue which, in addition to investigating authorities and the FIU, should also be dealt with more by banking supervision, which is not very common. When we look at Europe as a whole, we see that there is a paradigm shift everywhere: financial supervision should also be more engaged in this area, more committed to it. Thanks to the fact that we have the Council, that we have our own budget, we were able to react very quickly and flexibly at the end of last year. Our Council decided to increase the number of staff. And, of course, to do more in the area of money laundering. So the number of posts has now increased. But I think that, even with the current number of posts, this is 105, we are still the smallest financial supervisory authority in the European Union. But let's be realistic, let's look at the size of the Estonian financial market, too, it's not the largest in Europe, it's more like one of the smallest. So, in my opinion, this balance, this balance, it's pretty good. I also think that our system is good: our Council and our budget, which is separate from our national budget, allow us to act quickly and flexibly enough. But that was a good question, and I hope you got an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U35	Thank you. Mr Sutt, the next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U36	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Thank you, good waitress. A very good, concise presentation, and I would certainly like to acknowledge for my part the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority last year and, in fact, earlier. My question concerns the situation in the banking market in terms of competition. There have been significant changes in the market, especially on the company side. The competition situation in the provision of long-term loans is also different from in the past. My question is: how do you assess the current state of competition in the banking market? What role do the pension funds of the second pillar play and how successfully do they perform when they compete with banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U37	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. The first thing is that the Financial Supervision Authority is not about freedom of competition but about stability in the financial market, so that the financial market is reliable. Now, another thing: how competition in the banking market arises. Looks like the more banks, the more competition. It's the easiest view, but it's worth two moments. The first is that, in legal terms, the European Central Bank (ECB) will grant authorisation to banks in the euro area as a monopoly from 2014. He's taking off his license, too. Another factual finding is that there is no very great urge in the market for longer-term crediting. We have seen the urge to operate in the consumer credit market, also in the case of banks. So if you ask me if there could be more competition in the banking market for offering longer-term loans, the answer is yes. Certain margins seem to indicate that there is room for improvement in the field of competition. On the other hand, if you ask financial supervision or bank supervision or capital supervision whether it is bad that banks make a lot of money, then our answer is: it is not bad that they are solvent. Thus they protect depositors who know that banks do not change, do not go bankrupt. So it's kind of like a two-way thing. But I dare say that if any major player wants to obtain a licence to offer a longer-term loan here in Estonia, he is welcome. Of course, provided he meets the requirements of the law. But let's take a small view of how the Estonian banking market has changed in recent years. Let's take the same year 2014: who did we have on the market? We had two large branches on the market: Nordea and the same Danske. As I explained before, in terms of so-called capital supervision or macro-prudential supervision, Estonia does not control the activities of branches very much. He is only watching them provide services here, so that our consumers are adequately protected, but how much they lend and under what conditions, is either a grey area or rather a country of origin competence. We now have four major banks on the market. I mean, one in four is still small, but it's growing well enough. We have a known Swedbank, is SEB, is the Luminor I was talking about, and is also LHV. There are no significant branches. I would say that the trend has been that Estonia, as well as the SSM, or the supervision of the European Central Bank, will be more able to control the banking market and, if necessary, to direct the trends here, together with the central bank as a macro-supervisor, when it was in 2014. Everything has its own positive side, but once again: to long-term lenders I would say that you are welcome. But there aren't many interested ones. We have a million and 300,000 people, and this number is decreasing. Although it's not attractive in the eyes of the big guys. Once again: if you look at Swedish banks and compare them with the euro area as a whole, Swedish banks are very, very strong. They are highly digitized, they are very well capitalised, they are relatively well managed. So they're pretty tough nuts for whoever they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U38	Thank you. Colleagues Anti Poolamets, next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U39	Dear waitress, Thank you very much for closing down Danske Bank's branch! At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the ridges were either not working at all or were not working properly. According to my information, as early as 2009, the FIU provided certain information and signals. At that time, Jürgen Ligi was Minister of Finance, said to have followed no reaction. Now, there's a new risk: there's been an alarm coming out of Swedbank. What is your action plan in this regard? Is the inspection ready to spread Swedbank's offices, computers? In Sweden, it has begun mainly with the help of the press. You could have some whistleblowers in the big organizations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U40	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. We have also announced publicly, with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, that it was probably already on the verge that we will start, together, the supervision of Swedbank. This information has also been published that since 1 April we are carrying out an on-the-spot inspection of Swedbank in Estonia. We're in that office, and we're working, let's say, with information, with people, the process is going on. We have agreed, with Swedish supervision, that as long as this process is under way, we will not go into too much detail for the opposite party, even if it does not go into too much detail. However, once this process has been completed, we have forecast with the Swedes that the initial results should be clear by autumn 2019, we will definitely publish them. This is indeed a process of public interest and it is likely that the public will also need to know what has happened in Swedbank AS. I'm just saying to this hall, in the case of Swedbank, we're talking mostly about so-called back problems. I mean that all banks operating or operating in Estonia have been involved in serving non-residents in the recent past, providing payment services to them. And not only in Estonia, but also in general. When Danske Bank published its internal report in September 2018, there was also a certain factory in it. I can't confirm it here, but I'm referring to what Danske's bank report says. There were cross-border payments by non-residents in the Baltics. A certain ten-year period was considered at all, and the share of Estonia was 20% only. And about half of that 20% was made by Danske Bank. So the Baltics in general have been in the non-residents' service business and, as I indicated, in 2014 the share of them in the Estonian system was 19%, which has now fallen to 7 to 8%. But once again, yeah, we're dealing with Swedbank, Danske too. As early as 2007, FI had an on-the-spot check, then it was Sampo Pank. In 2009, there was a follow-up, during which we found that things had improved. We were hoping Danske would set up a house there, and later it turned out he didn't. We held a dialogue with the Danes in 2012 and 2013 and 2014 was our on-the-spot check be talking about the Danske bank now. Business related to non-residents was closed in 2015 and in 2019 the final closure of this business is in Estonia. These have been steps towards Danske. As far as Swedbank is concerned, I was simply referring to the information that we have published, but the details cannot go to for various reasons at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U41	Thank you. Mr Vilja Thomas, the next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U42	Thank you. I will return to the previous composition of the Riigikogu with my question and remind you that for almost three-quarters of the year in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we dealt with the Danske Bank case and looked for the guilty. In the course of these discussions, the issue arose as to whether the rules to prevent money laundering in Estonia should be tightened up further. I recall that, as you yourself said, the directive was only adopted in 2017. Should we start changing those rules by now? We also raised the issue of the changed burden of proof. I don't remember what your position was. Should we now start tightening up the rules and introducing the changed burden of proof? What's your position? I also recall that the European Union Money Laundering Directive does not, in fact, require the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U43	Good member of the Riigikogu! Thank you for your question. The answer given to the previous, that is to say XIII, was that we are aware of the idea of a shifted burden of proof. We don't mind, but it needs to be considered. And I guess the various committees have done and are doing it. If you ask me, as financial supervisor, if this is such a number one issue for us, then the answer is that it isn't. I believe that this is a more topical issue for our colleagues from research institutions, such as the prosecutor's office. For me, there are three topical issues due to the legal framework. Firstly, as I have already said, the question of the amount of fines. I really hope it'll be on your desk soon enough if it's not already there. Secondly, the complexity of the procedure. I very much hope that it will circulate in the system of ministries and will reach your table as well. Third, whistleblower protection. I very much hope that it will arrive at your desk at some point through the Committee on Government Against Money Laundering. However, although the burden of proof that has been paid is something that only slightly affects financial supervision, this is not our main area of activity, we will certainly contribute to that. We do not object to this, but I have been following this issue last year, there are certain constitutional issues. The Chancellor of Justice has thought of something about it. I know my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance have been working on the bill, and I believe one version will reach you for further processing. It is our position briefly that these three marked topics are of paramount importance to us. The reverse burden of proof would certainly contribute to the management of certain risks, but at the same time there are some risks, let us put it this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U44	Thank you. Mr Riina Sikkut, next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good speaker! I'm asking about something that doesn't concern big banks, rather people's big problems. Do you think that crowdfunding platforms, cooperative banks, quick lenders, providers of virtual currency wallets and cash changeovers need to be more managed, complemented by this regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U46	Member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. In fact, there are a lot of questions in this one and a very short one. It's only seemingly simple and short. This is a very complex area. We'll take virtual currencies, crypto currencies. As far as we know, in Estonia, the issuer or the decision-maker of the issuer has been authorised by the Financial Intelligence Bureau of approximately 1400 companies issuing crypto currencies. Most of them have no significant connection with Estonia. They just got a license here. Some of them probably do not even have the status of Estonian company; they are foreign companies. So the connection with Estonia is very loose. What is the added value that Estonian society gets from this to me? It is not quite clear why such a system is good. Once again, these crypto currency operators are not under our supervision; they do not report to us. We have some information, but there's no way we can control it on our own. That is why my opinion is currently under assessment. Circa 90% of crypto-currency companies do business that we don't understand. And if we don't understand anything, it's usually the supervisors who advise people not to deal with it. I have a tribe of mine who once bought cheap crypto currency, and then its price went up in a terrible way. We talked about consumer education here before. I talked to him about that, hey, this isn't the right thing. You know your euros and do something with them. He looked at me and said I was rich now. I'm rich! He's a very smart person, can't say he's under-educated. I asked you where you suddenly came from. You just bought it, didn't you? Where did you get it? I don't know, but it is! It's all a special currency, separate from central banks, and the central banks are from the devil at all, right? It's a joke I'm gonna tell you just in case I'm going to be here in public. But it's very difficult to explain these things to a person sometimes and to warn them not to take those risks. Coming back to the top: crypto currency, virtual currencies. I think that Estonia should gradually reduce this risk. One measure that could be considered is to make their registration fees, or even annual fees, high enough so that it is no longer worth keeping the registration in Estonia. That's one simple example. And it's very cheap for the state. Another example: Finland did this by somehow placing them under supervision. And I know from my colleagues in the Ministry of Finance that this matter is being dealt with, it has not been completely overlooked. As far as the crowdfunding is concerned, the banks choose their clients. As I said, this competition may not be perfect. In this sense, crowdfunding also has its advantages. Some smaller or riskier projects can be funded in this way. But the other side of this coin is the same as they're riskier. And if investors don't know about it, it's less informed, it could cause a problem at some point even for the whole of society. A reputation will also be struck if the risk of a single currency becoming insolvent is transferred to a regulated financial market. Therefore, years ago, we have already proposed to our colleagues that crowdfunding should be subject to minimum regulation. There are certain issues where contract law may not work, and then there will not be the effect that we want. Risks could be adequately managed. Then it is public law that can manage these risks more generally and at a lower cost to society. So we have made proposals on certain issues, on certain topics we are doing them and thinking about them. We have recognised these risks; they have not been completely overlooked. But thank you for the question. It's a very topical subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U47	Thank you. Mr Rimmel, the next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2014, some of the criminal offences concerning money laundering were turned into misdemeanours. What was the opinion of the Financial Supervision Authority? Did you support it or did you object? And why do you think it was done? In addition, what has been the impact of this change in terms of the continuation of money laundering and the feeling of impunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U49	Thank you! To be honest, I don't remember everything by heart. That was five years ago, and there's been a lot of drafts about us. But I'm telling you what I remember. I remember there was a big project at the time called the decriminalisation initiative. The idea had arisen that too many acts could be considered as crimes or wrongdoings. What I'm talking about is more research and justice issues, but since I'm an education lawyer, I know a little bit about it. But it has nothing to do with financial supervision. But then it was appreciated to give an example: see that when people come from a singing party in a sublime mood and, for example, the choir of the University of Tartu decides to sing a song in front of the university headquarters, is it a massive violation of public order, which is even criminal under certain conditions. There shouldn't be such things, there should be some way to review them. Punishment should be more serious. And it has been difficult to argue about this, also because penal law as such and criminal proceedings are a terrible cost to society. As for 2014, my answer is that, frankly, I do not remember what was done there in concrete terms. We didn't keep a pen there, it was more like, I believe, at the desks of the Justice Department. If you have a dialogue or a debate with that party, you might ask them why these changes were made. And frankly, I also owe you the answer to how the Financial Supervision Authority reacted to this step at the time. So I'm sorry! But I can check it out if I'm interested and send you an answer. It's just that you have to dive into our archives and correspondence. If that's okay, I'd stop answering that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U50	Thank you. Mr Jaanson, the next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U51	Thank you very much. Honourable Head of the Financial Supervision Authority! I would like to begin by thanking you for your very thorough presentation, but even more for the thorough answers you have given to the questions. You have well explained what is happening in our financial landscape, in all banking. But I just had a question about your own organization. You also explained the organisation's structure, tasks, responsibilities of the various institutions. You said, among other things, that supervision is part of the Council's tasks, and this is where I came up with this question: why is the internal auditor in your organisation subordinate to the Chairman of the Board, but not to the Council? Isn't he a cooperation partner for the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U52	Thank you for this question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. There would be a short answer to that and a slightly longer answer. The short and simple answer is that, in accordance with the Financial Supervision Authority Act, the Management Board of the Internal Audit Statute will establish. In order to avoid conflicts of interest within the Governing Board, the internal auditor is indeed subject to me, not to the management board collectively, nor to the individual other board members, who actually exercise the supervision that we ourselves call 'business lines', i.e. the supervision of capital and services. I'm under so-called support functions and internal audit. This has historically been the case since 2002. In the last few years, we have agreed with the Council that the Council has the right to propose the work plan of the internal auditor. The internal auditor sends all the results of his/her audit, The Governing Council has a complete picture of what the Governing Board has done or failed to do. If necessary, the Council can conduct a dialogue with our internal auditor. We have agreed with the Council that we will also make this amendment to the law so that our internal auditor can receive guidelines from the Council. Then there would be a legal basis. And why not the Council, as the highest supervisory body in the Financial Supervision Authority, must also have a legal basis for dialogue with the internal auditor. The internal auditor has also stated in his report that, in fact, the Bureau has never obstructed his work or tried to undermine his independence. Since I myself am a member of the Estonian Association of Internal Auditors, I know exactly what these standards are, and I also respect these standards. I'm not interfering with the internal auditor, I'm not violating his independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U53	Thank you. Mr Espenberg, the next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U54	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! My question is about another opera and about pensions. You have mentioned in your Yearbook that you are also involved in occupational pension supervision and have participated 24 times in this working group. As a member of the Social Affairs Committee, I have received information that some of the Finnish employers' pension beneficiaries are residents of Estonia and their Finnish employers' pensions are taxed, even though they have already paid these taxes in Finland. Can you comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U55	Thank you for your question, good member of the Riigikogu. I will begin by saying that you will probably refer to one of our positions in our annual report on international cooperation in which the Financial Supervision Authority will participate. We are obliged to do so, which is the result of European Union legislation. Indeed, the Financial Supervision Authority participates in the work of an institution called the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) directly. Its English abbreviation is EIOPA. And when we look at the occupational pension supervision that EIOPA is doing, we see that this is one very specific area that is harmonised in the European Union. There are no occupational pension schemes in Estonia that are dealt with by EIOPA. So, in fact, this area has not been on the Financial Supervision Authority's radar. Your question about taxation is probably justified, but it is very specific, and I am indebted to this at the moment. This is the topic of the Tax and Customs Board; financial supervision has not dealt with it. I hope I've answered you about what's in our briefcase and why we're going to EIOPA. In EIOPA, we are particularly discussing insurance companies, the supervision of the insurance market. Once again, occupational pension schemes such as those in EIOPA's portfolio are not known in Estonia. There's nothing like that under our supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U56	Thank you. And one more question. Mr Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U57	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm asking about quick loans. This market was significantly organised by various measures, including those concerning your institution, in 2014-2015. It seems to me that the situation has improved as a whole and that responsibility has come to both service providers and consumers. But surely we are far from where we would like to be. Tens of thousands of people have seized the account because of very high percentage of consumer credits. However, in this light, as we have read here, MKM is planning once again to liberalise this market. It doesn't really concern you, but what do you think about advertising in general? Should we rather go ahead and clean up this market or turn something back?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U58	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu, for the question. So let's rewind the history of the express credit market. Once again, in the Financial Supervision Authority, we position ourselves as, among other things, good advisers to Parliament. We are independent and are trying to act on the basis of our best knowledge and skills. With regard to the high-speed credit market, we have once said that this market seems to need to be examined, in particular, from the point of view of monitoring the service: how services are offered, how the principle of responsible lending is applied. This would require supervision as well as authorisation. The threat of loss of license is a pretty good deterrent to professional professionals, which would force us to be law-abiding. That's an opinion we've ever expressed. We have also thought that restricting this advertising should not go too far. We have had colleagues who have tried very hard to regulate it, and the sound of money must not be said in advertising. We're not going to get that rigid, though. We see that advertising is actually a very good way to create competition. If you're just coming to the market and you don't have any chance to introduce your product in any way, assuming you're acting legally, by the standards, it's pretty hard for you to compete with those who are already on the market. But we really want competition in the market. So in this sense, I do not think it is about relaxing or not relaxing advertising restrictions. The main tool, and I think it could stay this way, is the authorisation of consumer credit providers. Whatever this current advertising framework is, it still needs to be pursued. Creditors are further motivated to comply with it if they are always afraid of losing their licence be declared invalid. Speaking of the fast-lending market, I agree that things have improved considerably there. However, the central issue we are dealing with is the implementation of the'responsible lending' principle. However, some instant lenders tend to violate it, and we have also partly withdrawn the licence. At the same time, to a certain extent, the regulation of the market itself is also at stake. Some of the businesses have just somehow collapsed and got their license for us. So this market, I'm saying, is in order and in order. But with regard to advertising, I would rather say that we have not felt that this is a terrible big problem, but that does not mean that we cannot review the current regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U59	Thank you. We have heard the presentation and questions of Kilvar Kessler, Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority. The questions are exhausted. Thank you very much, Mr. Waitress. There is now an opportunity to give speeches, according to § 155, there is an opportunity to give a speech on a group. The first recorded call comes from Riina Sikkut. Mr Riina Sikkut, please! Five minutes from the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U60	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Management Board of the Financial Supervision Authority for this very good overview, which presented the role of the Financial Supervision Authority and the activities of 2018. And actually, I would also like to thank you for paying our attention to what still needs to be changed and improved, whether it concerns other aspects of misdemeanour procedures or market surveillance. However, as in my question, I am now going from the issue of banks, investment funds and pension pillars to the subject that has been brought about for us by technological change and, on the other hand, by low interest rates. Just as new technologies transform our taxi market, holiday arrangements and the rental of a dwelling or a overnight place, the same is true for financial products and services. On the one hand, products and services become more complex, difficult to understand for a person, but they are also very accessible, for many also using smartphones. In a situation where a person wants to invest his or her savings and in a normal bank interest is practically non-existent, 8% or 20% seems very sweet. But with higher interest rates, there are higher risks. What has happened on our market? Indeed, there are 1000 or more authorised crypto money providers-brokers, there are fast-track lenders, crowdfunding platforms, cooperative banks, which allow people high interest rates. At the same time, they finance the issue of fast-track loans, for example, to generate revenue. And people's deposits in the Guarantee Fund are not guaranteed. I am not saying that everyone must be subject to supervision such as that of large banks. One of the fast lenders is going bankrupt. It doesn't affect our financial stability. At the same time, it affects the day-to-day management of the specific people involved, who may then fall into the hands of bailiffs. In the same way, in the case of cooperative banks, in the case of crowdfunding platforms: if the real estate investment to which the money was put fails, the individual's personal risks are very high. The question is who should stand for these risks not to materialise. And what could be the solution? What do we need? I think it is up to all of us to talk about it, to ask questions about it, to make proposals in order to finally arrive at the fact that, apart from ordinary literacy, financial literacy can also be achieved at school. The services and products we have on the market may be complex, may be modern, but they must be transparent. And people need to know what the risks they take, what the service they actually get. And three: Anyone can go down. A person may make erroneous decisions, may overestimate his financial ability, may overestimate his investment wisdom. Businesses may be wrong, perhaps there is no assumed niche for them on the market or competitors are better. How do we offer this airbag, how do we get out of the debt circle people who have once got there, perhaps as a result of an erroneous decision? You don't have to keep this sentence going for 10 to 20 years. So we are dealing with financial literacy, transparent, honest services, where a person understands what he buys, where he invests his money! And what we're doing is that if someone's made the wrong decisions, it wouldn't be a life sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U61	Thank you. Next call, Mr Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak, of course, on behalf of the group, but with a small personal nuance, because today, too, I did not get through the hall without mentioning my name. I am only proud of that when it is very well founded and very respectful to associate me with the Financial Supervision Authority. I've been chairman of this council for over five years. The only problem is that I cannot account for the achievements of this institution. But let's make sure I didn't say that. The Financial Supervision Authority has, in my view, been a very reliable part of the very reliable structure of the Estonian state. I stress the word'seni' because the attacks on sound public administration, I believe, can also be counted among this by FI with a small concussion, has been a disgusting trend in the past two or three years. FI does not deserve this, just as the public sector as a whole does not. I say that FI is one of the institutions that has ensured our very sound financial sector. We have had such a reliable financial sector that the taxpayer has not had to save him. And FI, I stress, is not about consumer protection, but, above all, about financial stability and the credibility of the sector. One of the inevitable consequences of such action is the abuse of trust. This trust has been abused by villains. The credibility of banks located in Estonia is the reason why dirty money has also used it as an infrastructure. And this, in turn, has been dirtyly exploited by politicians who have unfortunately damaged FI's reputation. It has also been exploited by civil arguers through politicians who have simply been fishing for money. After discussing money laundering in this hall about six months ago, I actually want to wash these walls. How ugly it all was! Today, this was made clear to Kilvar Kessler on one issue. We leave the Financial Supervision Authority alone, it is my call, and we recognise his work together. The content of one question today was that the Financial Intelligence Unit sent a letter to FI in 2009, but nothing happened. I was the Minister of Finance this year from six months ago. No one knows what letter it was, but another rumor has been released. It's really ugly to be wrecked like that. The supervision of money laundering and financial supervision have been in contact with, and participated in, meetings. The fact that someone sent a letter is just a rumor. What was written? This is the same level of claim as has been made in recent days, but also much earlier and repeatedly in relation to FI and political parties. At the time, hundreds of billions of money were washed in Estonia. What kind of reputation are you talking about?! So all kinds of constructive discussions have been closed. It was on TV last night, the day before in "Actual Camera." The chairman of the party comes and kicks: what, at that time, washed hundreds of billions of money in Estonia! I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U63	A little extra time? How much are you asking?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U64	Three minutes, traditionally.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U65	Okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U66	Yesterday was a bright moment: the Prime Minister had to disprove this lie. And I congratulate the Prime Minister on that. You don't do that to your country, you don't do that. No hundreds of billions of money laundering has been proven. And it is particularly awful when, in this way, the Minister of the Interior attacks Estonia from an arbitrary position, whose purpose should be the truth. Indeed, it is estimated that EUR 200 billion have moved through Danske and is currently being controlled by Danskes. But it's Danske! Danske has not been directly responsible for our FI. The direct responsibility has been on the part of the Danish FI, whose activities have been much studied in recent times. There have been criminal proceedings, and it's going somewhere. In general, however, money laundering is a sort of hideous crime, where most of the truth is likely to remain unsolved. Attorney General Lavly Perling, however, it is absurd to talk about 200 billion. Probably instead of 200 billion, some small part succeeds in qualifying as a crime. FI's activities have been ahead of time. I specifically had Kilvar Kessler talk about how regulations have changed over time and what has been done over time. Indeed, one turning point is 2012 when money laundering started to be tackled on a risk-based basis, on a business model basis, rather than simply on the basis of formal rules. And since then, the Financial Inspectorate has been able to act seriously. Before leaving for the Chairman of the Council, I received a brief overview of the results of this audit. I can say that by summer 2014, Estonia's problem had already been solved. True, the inertial business continued, but basically the Financial Supervision Authority, which assessed the risk mechanisms, won a job in 2014. FI is not a Financial Intelligence Unit. The money-laundering data bureau wasn't that successful. However, the promotion of the FIU was not simply due to administrative failure, but, above all, to Russia's refusal to work with it. This could be our summary of this topic, which is actually a history for Estonia years ago. It is a pity that too much has been said about all kinds of extraneous matters today, rather than discussing overall financial stability. Clearly, FI is not a consumer protection. He can't handle everything. But it's also part of his history that he's always got functions written on him. In this sense, it must be taken into account that it is very involved in increasing expectations and orders. All in all, however, I say that he has done well and kept a good balance in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-16_U67	Thank you. No further requests have been registered. We have exhausted this issue today. The agenda is also exhausted, so I want everyone to work hard next week on voters and documents. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 11.38 a.m.
