ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 6th working week Thursday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is possible to start by handing over drafts and enquiries. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I hand over the draft law amending the Commercial Code, the Proof Act and the Notary's Payment Act. The aim of the draft is to remove unnecessary restrictions and formal requirements on transactions with parts of private companies. The initiators of the draft act want to increase the attractiveness of the Estonian economic environment and improve its competitiveness. Inevitably, we are competing with other countries. For example, our neighbours in Finland and Latvia already have simpler regulations, which we now want to implement in Estonia. The aim of the draft is to reduce situations where investors give up investing in Estonian start-ups, for example, because it is difficult to make a transaction. All members of the company, even if there are dozens or hundreds, must be located at the same place at the same time as the notary. Now we can offer companies a choice: you can continue the old way, but you can also change the statute and allow transactions with shares only by shareholder decision. A similar recommendation has also been made within the framework of the revision of the Commercial Code. As this is a time-critical issue, I see no reason to delay it for years to come. I am also pleased that this draft will come from Parliament. I hope that it will find the same strong support in the Chamber as it found in the Legal Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U3	There are no further requests for referrals and drafts. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu and the management board of the Riigikogu processes it in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, get your attention! Messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the following start-up meetings will take place in this Chamber: firstly, the Bioethics Support Group, the Convener Hele Everaus; secondly, the Renewable Energy Support Group, the Convener Lauri Läänemets; thirdly, the Estonian-Chile Parliamentary Group, the Convener Ivari Padar. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 76 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have an item on the agenda: First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Kalev Saare Appointment of a Member of the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve. Before we go to this, I will briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First the presentation of the representative of the Constitutional Committee is up to 20 minutes, then the presentation of Kalev Saare, a candidate for the Supreme Court, is up to 5 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask each of the rapporteurs an oral question, followed by negotiations where only the representatives of the political groups can take part, and a final vote will also take place. I would point out that the final vote is secret. We will begin the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Kalev Saare as a member of the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve. I ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U5	Honourable President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to bring before you the draft appointment of Kalev Saare as a member of the Supreme Court. On Monday, 14 October including the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, the first reading and discussion of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Kalev Saare as a member of the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Supreme Court took place, which was very positive and extremely motivating. Mr Kalle Grünthal, Mr Siim Kiisler, Mr Andrei Korobeinik, Mr Lauri Läänemets, Mr Hanno Pevkur, Mr Taavi Rõivas and Mr Vilja Toomas took part. The President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve and the candidate Kalev Saare were also present. Villu Kõve introduced the third member of the Supreme Court to the members of the Constitutional Committee. Villu Kõve presented three candidates for the Supreme Court at the same time to the group and there was no negative feedback on them. The appointment of Kalev Saare remained later, since the third seat will not be available until 1 December. Kai Kullerkup and Kaupo Paal started working from September 1. The security check on Kalev Island took longer because he came from outside the judicial system. The liberal positions of the Civil Chamber were sought to take people from inside and outside the judicial system. Pursuant to § 55 (4) of the Courts Act, the President of the Supreme Court announced the opinion of the Court Administration Advisory Board on 28 March 2019 and Kalev Saare received their support at the General Assembly of the Supreme Court on 2 April 2019. Villu Kõve pointed out that Kalev Saare has worked at length as a sworn advocate, a lecturer and a law doctor. His main field of research so far has been company law, the speciality of which no state judge has at the moment. Kalev Saare is an experienced and recognized lawyer whose current professional experience as an associate professor of civil law law in the Faculty of Law enables him to make a significant contribution to the work of the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court and to the further development of Estonian civil law. Hanno Pevkur asked whether Kalev Saare felt that the situation in which the judge earned a special pension was compatible with the Constitution, but committed an act that was qualified as a criminal offence, and that he would be deprived of a special pension. Hanno Pevkur cited drunk driving as an example of a crime. Kalev Saare replied that it is, of course, difficult to assess compliance with the Constitution on the move, but this issue certainly needs a thorough analysis in the context of the Constitution. Kalev Saare found that if persons have a certain legal certainty through the legislator but, on the other hand, an act has been committed which precludes the continuation of their judicial office, two conflicting principles are colliding with each other and it is necessary to carry out an analysis of them. Mr Kõve added, for his part, that if Mr Pevkur's question is motivated by the situation that went through the media, the judge himself has submitted his resignation. In addition, it was not full of time, and therefore the question referred in this case is not raised either. In addition, Pevkur stated that if a judge had a full career and a special pension could be taken away from him as a result of a crime, it would be as if it were a double punishment because a person had already received his criminal sentence. Mr Pevkur also expressed the opinion that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had not been informed of any circumstances that would preclude the appointment of Mr Kalev Saare. There were other members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who confirmed that this was a very dignified candidate. Villu Kõve also introduced other changes to the members of the Constitutional Committee in the near future among the judges of the Supreme Court. With regard to generation change, we have a number of other judges of the Criminal Chamber and the Civil Chamber changing. After the discussion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the Commission went to the procedural decisions and proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 24 October. The chairman of the Constitutional Committee was also appointed as rapporteur and it was proposed that Kalev Saarel, in accordance with § 117 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, be allowed to present a presentation to the assembly for up to five minutes. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U6	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please! Is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U7	Thank you. I have a procedure, yes. Tell me, is it essential that the protocols that actually give nothing to the Riigikogu be read literally? Who exactly asked for long answers in the Committee on Legal Affairs, this is not, in my opinion, the content of a major debate. This isn't the first time. I'm actually asking for it procedurally. We should change our practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U8	Yeah, that's right, it's an internship question. The Rules of Procedure oblige the representative of the Commission to give an overview of what has happened in the Commission. Whether he does it in protocol form or in any other form, it's up to the waitress. So this is our emerging practice and, as we all know, it is very different. After all, we also have very different practices in the record-keeping of committees. We have discussed these issues. So that freedom was, and still remains, the waitress decides that she will give an overview in the best way. The members of the Riigikogu are able to ask specific questions. Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now I ask Kalev Saare, a candidate for the Supreme Court of the Riigikogu Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U9	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is a great honour for me to stand before you here today. Stand at the door of the judicial system. In my work so far, I have been in contact with all three levels of justice for more than 20 years. I have contributed, through and in the course of my duties, to the formation of judicial decisions and I would like to share with you here a few points which I believe could help to fulfil the purpose of civil proceedings. When a person turns to a court with his or her concerns in the final trouble, he or she needs to know that his or her court of inquiry is independent, reliable, and competent. The legislator has an extremely important role to play in terms of the independence of the judicial system, while the judiciary's credibility is very important for the judiciary and for the training of judges, not only at the level of further training and qualifications for judges, but also at the level of basic education in the university. The importance and importance of judicial training for the effective functioning of the state must certainly not be underestimated and cannot be overestimated either. While each court case is different in content, the stability of the judiciary and the stability of the legal order, as well as the good preparation of judges, is an important guarantee that both the procedure and the outcome of the proceedings can in some way be predicted and its content foreseen. The expertise of the Judges should ensure that disputes can be settled correctly at first instance. The purpose of civil justice is not only to resolve the matter properly, but also to resolve the matter within a reasonable period of time and with as little cost as possible. Each case is known to involve costs, often very high costs. It is therefore important that the duration of the procedure, which is certainly correlated with costs, is reasonable, and that the duration of the procedure in turn depends on the preparation and expertise of the judges. Achieving legal peace between the parties concerned is also an important objective of judicial proceedings and an important task for judges. Equal and unbiased treatment of the parties and a well-motivated court settlement are certainly a fertile ground for a legal peace to be achieved as soon as possible. In addition, the obligation to explain the judge, which allows the parties to the proceedings to assess the risks involved in the dispute as early as possible, must not be underestimated, and consequently their "targets' or objectives must be adjusted as necessary. In addition, the work of the judge in reconciling the parties is equally important in order to achieve peace of law. Yeah, it'll be 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U10	Would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U11	No, I'm almost done. One minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U12	Yes, please, one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U13	Good training for judges will then be a guarantee of both judicial peace and negotiation, as well as of the swift achievement of the outcome of the case. The court can only understand the right by law, but the credibility of the judicial system still develops through the judge's attitude to his work, to the parties to proceedings. For my part, I will try to do my best in this work so that any person who goes to court believes in the functioning of the judicial system and can be trusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U14	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U15	Thank you. A good candidate for a judge of state! Do you agree with my view that in the territory of the Republic of Estonia from Hiiumaa to the island of Petserin and Ruhnu to the St. John's Town, the right of the Republic of Estonia takes precedence over European Union law and UN declarations?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U16	Does European Union law prevail over Estonian law? As we know, Estonia has joined the European Union through a referendum, and the Constitution has been improved. According to this, European Union law is an important part of the Estonian legal order. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Constitutional Supplementation Act says that Estonia is joining the European Union, but it is based on the fundamental principles of the Constitution, and these fundamental principles cannot be discarded in any way. That's my answer, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-24_U17	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, do the groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations; we can immediately go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision "Veering Kalev Saare as a member of the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve. Please take a stand and vote. The vote shall be by secret ballot. It's probably working. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there were no respondents, there was one abstention. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] We wish Kalev Saare an honest and fair mind and good cooperation with the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Thank you. See you in the next sitting! Closure of the sitting at 10.21 a.m.
