ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the third working week of the first plenary session. Is there a desire to submit inquiries or drafts? No, it's not. Then I have some messages to pass on. Today, after the plenary session, the following parliamentary groups will be held in this Chamber: Estonia-Holland, convener Aadu Must; Estonia, United Arab Emirates, convener Martin Repinski; Estonia-Slovenia, convener Martin Repinski; Estonia-Ireland, convener Üllar Saaremäe. Also today, after the plenary session, the founding meetings of the following support groups will be held here: Tartu Regional Development Support Group, convener Aadu Must; smoke-free Estonian Support Group, convener Tarmo Kruusimäe; Estonian Author Support Group, convener Tarmo Kruusimäe; Haapsalu Railway Recovery Support Group, convener Jaanus Karilaid; European Union Support Group of National States, convener Urmas Reinsalu. Now, please, let's do the presence check. Ninety-nine ambassadors are here. Missing two. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the third working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 97 ambassadors, 0 abstentions and 2 delegates. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U2	Today, the agenda is to empower Prime Minister candidate Kaja Kallas to form a government. The rapporteur is Prime candidate Kaja Kallas. I will explain the procedure for dealing with this item. By decision No 441 of 5 April, the President of the Republic appointed Kaja Kallas as prime minister candidate and instructed him to form a government. According to § 89 of the Constitution, the prime minister candidate will present a report to the Riigikogu on the foundations of the future government. The Prime Minister's candidate has expressed his wish to make a presentation to the Riigikogu at today's session. The Kaja Kallas presentation on the basis of which the government was formed lasts up to 25 minutes. After that, any member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to the candidate Prime Minister. There will be no negotiations and a final vote will be taken after the questions have been answered. Prime minister candidate Kaja Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good people of Estonia! I'm not gonna be Prime Minister today, we all know that. At this point, I could make a point, go back to my position in the fourth row and keep my mouth shut in the future, but I won't. No one in our party or social democrats will do that. We all know that in recent weeks we have seen and heard that there are thousands more people across the country who have decided not to remain silent. The new coalition can convince itself that people have given speeches, written articles, come to demonstrations, organised processions at the instigation of the Reform Party and the deep state. You can be so arrogant as to call peaceful demonstrations by citizens of your country hysteria. You may be so scared that you respond to any other statement of opinion with threats, talk about closure and walrus parties. You can do this because liberal democracy allows such behaviour within the best of things. But that doesn't mean people lose their reluctance. This does not mean that people will remain silent because they are not. As in recent years, in recent weeks I have travelled around Estonia and met Estonian people, voters of different political parties. These have not been easy meetings. Some times the evening began with somebody getting upset and an angry accusation, and then everyone else got angry. At the parish halls, people were anxious at the same time. They shouted, even shouted, because someone had shown that they could. You can scream in this room, you can point fingers, you can sow anger and contempt. Something like this has happened in our country. Someone has said that politics is made in Estonia by threats, anger and lying. And now that's how it's done. And what's wrong with that? It's the way you get to power today. It's like power is not a tool, it's a purpose. Probably for some people in this hall, that's the way it is. But not all meetings have been like this. There have been many meetings where the questions have been acute, the topics are anxious, but they have been asked calmly and respectfully. And all the meetings I described earlier calmed down at one point because they were answered calmly, and secondly, not all those in the room went along with this behavior. These meetings once again made it clear to me that, although the elections were successful, among other things, by forces with a strategy of anger and error, they were voted for because of dissatisfaction. This is a point for all of us, including the Reform Party, including me. I agree with what President Kaljulaid and many experts have said that people in our country have real concerns and must be resolved not by evil, hatred and banning, but by real actions. We can all be preachers, but few can really do anything. As Meelis Venno, the entrepreneur of the year in Viljandi County, said when he heard about the plans of the new coalition: 'If a person starts talking so crazy, he is quite far from real life. ' Estonian society is not ready. We still have a lot to do, but we will be led by a stagnation government. This has been said by all the experts who have recently spoken about entrepreneurship, education and social affairs, as well as representatives of civil society. We've got a stagnation ahead of us. Moreover, there are many issues ahead of us to go back. We have evolved alongside the rich innovative Nordic countries, their example has inspired us. At the same time, the greatest secrets of their success have been the equal position of men and women in society. They exploit the full potential of their society. The men of the new power union are few experts, but they believe they are experts in being women. Hence, they tell us to have more and more children without ever asking when a woman wants to have children. I will answer you, men who could not even look me in the eye during the negotiations: a woman wants children when she is happy and if she is convinced that her children too are happy and grow up in a safe family and a well-meaning society. Of course, happy men are also needed, but I would argue that today's Estonian society does not take women into account in any case. I see self-confident men all over Estonia, but I also see fierce, inspiring, smart women who are the engines of community life: doctors, teachers, librarians, café owners, competent leaders. They're sparkling people. But for some reason they're not good enough for the government. Women are not even fit for the table where gentlemen discuss questions about women's bodies. She's just a delivery machine for stagnation. We live in the 21st century. What century do you live in? Various studies have shown that societies with more women in government, where women are taken into account are more balanced and less violent. Why don't we want it? What are you afraid of? You're afraid of change. You don't change anything, and you don't even hide it. But Estonia needs reforms. Wage increases, entrepreneurship development, labour shortages, competitiveness growth, accompanying developments in the global economy, the environment, the development of a smart economic model, the modern education system, these are just a few of the challenges that have been addressed to me by entrepreneurs and public officials, analysts and top managers. These are the problems that need to be resolved, but which you do not offer. Instead, you talk about spending and borrowing. And in a situation where the state's finances are shabby. I am not even going to ask how your ideas come together with all completely independent Estonia and loan slavery. Next big subject: Education. Estonia provides excellent education. We have been flexible to take account of changes in the world and of renewed needs. My conversations with the directors and teachers have perhaps injected the greatest hope into me in terms of the future, because they are committed, passionate and see a long perspective, but they have said that it is important that excellent education is given to everyone who lives in Estonia, regardless of the language they speak at home. We are well aware that Estonia is too small to be able to maintain two equal education systems. And it is those who are not studying in Estonian who suffer from it. This is educational inequality and the task of the state is to deal with it. But you don't. The subject you are not talking about either is climate warming. I have recently met many violent young people, and the main topic of our conversations has not been excise duties and four-way highways, but climate and a smaller ecological footprint. Young people have realised that climate change is not waiting for us far in the future, but is already there. However, you will have a party in the government that denies climate change alongside a number of other facts. All the topics that we are discussing in view of Estonia's future will become meaningless if the warming of the climate makes our existence here on the ground meaningless. Some may think that nothing depends on small Estonia, but if everyone thinks so, then nothing really changes. Estonia could become the cleanest, least polluting European country, as we once became Europe's most digitised country, by means of innovative technologies and conscious consistent action. We want to live in Estonia like this. You have read the document of our values that we published this weekend. Understandably, this is not a coalition agreement, but the principles and values on which our government would act. We and your responsibility to this country and to the people of Estonia is not a new coalition at any cost, but a better future. We have not all been chosen here simply to press the green button, but to think, listen and take responsibility for our constituents, our country, our children. And that is why I am asking you here today, who have already signed the coalition agreement: where is your plan? Where is the agreement to deal with the concerns, fears and dissatisfaction of those who voted for you? Where are these goals, solutions, action plans that at least try to solve problems and give people hope? You have failed your constituents. Your constituents, who were counting on you, have been left alone for the first day with their fears and the uncertainty that made them choose for you. We've been waiting four years for nothing. Your empty coalition agreement doesn't make anyone feel good about anything but yourself, because the power is in hand. Much has been done for this power. There has been a lie, there has been a throw away of principles, there has been throw away the words that have been said earlier, even the voters have been thrown away. People have been bought with sweet jobs, a soft armchair and an office upstairs. But not all of them. I know that many among you are unhappy with what is happening. I know that they have refused the benefits offered to them in the name of a clear conscience and their ideals. There are even parties outside, because the values of a person's own values did not allow the squawk to hit the main stream of the party. It takes courage, great courage. 'We must remain ourselves,' said one recently elected to the Riigikogu. I wish him strength because his first challenge will come not in six months or two years, but it will be today and in the coming days. The question is, if you were yourself, you'd have to answer right now. Sometimes people say that what is happening right now is politics. The Party's orders must be obeyed, even if they conflict with your own conscience and with the trust of your constituents. I don't agree! Politics is a common act for a better good, and it cannot be done if, on the first day, both their voters and their consciences are betrayed. I ask only one thing of you: the moment your hand reaches towards the red button to fail me, and the next days towards the green button to approve the new coalition, wait a few seconds and think! Just think for a second if you came here for this! Is that what makes Estonia better? Is that what the thousands who voted for you want? Will you wake up tomorrow and be proud of yourself? Are your children proud of you in the future? Look your children in the eye for a moment and ask if their world will be better because of you. If you answer yes to everything, then press, but if you doubt it, if you think it's not what your voters want, your children, or, deep down, yourself, then know that your choice is not inevitable. We're a free country, and you're a free man. Your choice is your choice. And there's always another option. Just ask yourself this for a moment, because even asking has become rare in this country because it takes a little thing: courage. Good voters all over Estonia! I want to assure you that Estonia is still a democratic state. The new coalition may be blamed for contentlessness, but it is democratic. Please don't blame anything on the voters of the new coalition. Their voice must be heard, their needs must be covered, their concerns answered. Do not silence or label them! There is much to be done in our country, and since the new coalition is indifferent to this need, many people feel left out. It's real and real. And dealing with it must also be real and real. Then we have hope. And we have hope. We still have our Estonia. No one has taken it from us, nor will they take it in the future, because we still have our people. We still have you, officials in all ministries and state offices. You who maintain the continuity of the Estonian state. You who deal with the concerns of the Estonian people every day. A lot of the people in this hall have heard of your fears and that many of you want to quit. I beg you, don't leave! Work for our Estonia! And I beg you, don't be afraid. We still have you doctors who are committed to your work. Hold on, even if you're called murderers! We still have you teachers on whom the future of our country depends more than anyone else. Stay firm, even if you're called deep-state agents. Don't be afraid! We also have our businesses, whose activities not only fill our treasury but also employ thousands of people. I beg you, too: carry on, don't be afraid! Many will need your help in the near future. We still have the judges of our country. Be courageous and judge by your conscience, even when threatened. We still have good farmers, brave firemen, talented writers, and excellent scientists. We still have civil society organisations and volunteers. We still have salesmen and taxi drivers, we still have mothers and grandmothers, fathers and grandfathers. I beg you all, be confident and stand up for your principles. We still have our free press, even though it's under attack. The fight for free journalism is the fight for free Estonia. Fear not, for if you choose to remain silent, we really have no hope. I call on all citizens of Estonia to participate in the future of our country. More than ever, it's up to all of us. Don't be afraid. Don't be silent. Stand up for your principles. Estonia is still ours. This call on the remote was not a message of surrender or farewell. In a few days, the very beginning of the reign will be announced here. I have just announced our opposition from the beginning. I am still ready to rule Estonia with most of you on equal terms, but as long as this does not happen, we will not allow Estonia to be destroyed, we will not allow our country to be led into stagnation and hatred. We all have the opportunity to act in a democratic Estonian country according to our conscience and courage. You, a good member of the Riigikogu, also you, who want to be yourself, have this opportunity. Thank you. [[Long applause.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U4	Thank you, Kaja Kallas! Do the honourable members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the President... or for the Prime Minister candidate Kaja Kallas? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] There are no questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U5	It is.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U6	Sorry, yeah! Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U7	Madame Kallas! After the elections, you have repeatedly mentioned in the media that you are in contact with members of the Riigikogu who, in your opinion, are sceptical about the coalition led by Jüri Ratas. So who exactly have you been talking to? It seems to me that you have misled the public a little, and you have not communicated at all with the hesitant people. The truth is, after the official president's proposal, you have not started serious negotiations to form a coalition. At least you haven't even called our party leadership. Is what's going on here and now a media-oriented game?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U8	Thank you for your question, and thank you for pointing it out that there are many who are hesitant, as you rightly said. You also know that there are many who hesitate. As far as communication with your leadership is concerned, I have been in contact with Mr. Seeder, both immediately and later, after the election. So I don't understand this reproach.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U9	Thank you. It's about Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U10	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Prime Minister-designate! I have a short quick question. Just as there is a negative side to everything, there is a positive side. Surely you have read the various points of the governance plan agreed upon by the three parties. What are the positive points you agree with and would you be willing to vote for in this Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U11	Thank you. All the positive points are those points that have been taken over from our programme. It is certainly possible to vote for them if they actually happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U12	Thank you. The question is a member of the Riigikogu, Siim Pohlak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U13	Honourable Chairman! On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, please have a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U14	You're having second thoughts!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U15	At present, unfortunately, according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, there can be no break. Any other questions for Prime Minister-designate Kaja Kallas? Thank you, Prime candidate Kaja Kallas! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. A vote will follow. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the Prime Minister's candidate... How? Yes, please, Mr. Siim Pohlak!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U16	It would still be made clear that it should be possible to take a break before the vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U17	Yes, if you make this wish now, before the vote, it is possible. Five minutes or how much do you want? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U18	Break's over. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on Prime Minister candidate Kaja Kallas to form a government... [[Noise in the hall.]] Why? No, you don't! I'm glad you stayed quiet without the watch, and then we'll continue our trial. I shall put to the vote the mandate of Prime Minister-designate Kaja Kallas to form a government. Please take a stand and vote. Thank you. The vote is closed. There are 45 votes for, 53 against, 0 abstentions and 2 Riigikogu ambassadors did not vote. Prime Minister candidate Kaja Kallas was not authorised to form a government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-15_U19	It is now possible for all those who wish to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. Speaking from the chair may take up to five minutes. There's no desire. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.35 p.m.
