ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U1	Good morning. Today may be a good day to start with: good friends, a beautiful Valentine's Day for you! [[???Saalist vastatakse: 'Suur tänu!'???]] We will begin the session of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 4th working week. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Looks like you don't want to hand them over. Incoming check, please! 62 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 39.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U2	Let's start with the Thursday agenda. The first item is the debate on the important state issue 'Information security, related threats to democracy and the rule of law' initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. I'll introduce you to the procedure. First, the presentation by Andres Herkel, Chairman of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, is up to 10 minutes. The following questions and answers up to 10 minutes. The speaker is then strategic communication expert, Professor of Liberal Arts at the University of Tartu Ilmar Raag. His report is up to 20 minutes and questions and answers up to 15 minutes. Next, the doctor of law, Helen Eenmaa-Dimitrieva, Research Fellow of IT Law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu, will receive the floor. His report is up to 20 minutes, questions and answers up to 15 minutes. Then there is a presentation by a doctorate in history, Ivo Juurvee, Research Fellow at the International Centre for Defence Studies, which can last 20 minutes and questions-answers for up to 15 minutes. Attention! Each member of the Riigikogu may ask a single question to each rapporteur. And after that, there's a negotiation. Let's go! Please, Mr. Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable guests! Happy Valentine's Day, everybody! The Group of the Estonian Free Party has indeed decided to use the opportunity provided by our Home and Working Procedures Act to initiate a debate as a key national issue, addressing the issue of information security. In my introduction, I want to be laconical in order to give the floor to the esteemed experts more quickly and to go to the subject. I will limit myself to a few points, perhaps to proposals once again when there is a round of speeches by the political groups. The first remark is that the concepts we use when speaking about information security are often rather vague. It's probably a long way to go before we start to understand these things more or less in the same way. I believe that today's presentations could contribute to this. In the introduction, just so much that information security certainly involves a much wider range of problems than the critical or uncritical reception of social media and of true or false information spreading there. If you only bring a very short list of problems that could be linked to it, it is certainly the security of large databases, whether public or private, to protect them from hacking, destruction, manipulation. This certainly concerns the security of Internet communication and data transmission, as well as the personal security of Internet users, including that human rights must also apply on the Internet. Next, the security of strategic infrastructure, strategic infrastructure and related services, as long as their operation is online, whether it concerns transport, banking or whatever. There may be very high security threats here. And, finally, the protection of our statehood and democratic institutions from cyber attacks and other information attacks. We may not be able to anticipate all the problems that these areas will bring in future societies, and we certainly will not be able to cover them all in today's debate, but we must start somewhere. I am going to take a step back to our foreign policy debate the day before yesterday, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed at at least twice to the need to promote cyber law. This is exactly the subject that Helen Eenmaa-Dimitrieva is going to open up to us today, and it is certainly one of the topics that will remain on the table of the next Riigikogu. I expect that the importance of this field in time will only increase and will be particularly important for Estonia if we want to play our role as a leading IT state. And finally, we're not alone in the world. There are certainly very many research institutions, very many universities, very many think tanks, as well as international organisations, dealing with all these problems. I have been in contact with this topic in recent years through the Cultural Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, with great force in it. The reports that relate to our subject today have been adopted or are still in the process on an ongoing basis. To mention some of the most important issues that have gone through, for example, 'Social media', is it a social network or a threat to fundamental freedoms? ', 'The role of education for the digital citizen', 'in the context of public-law media disinformation and propaganda' and 'Internet governance and human rights', a report which I had the honour of managing myself and which was adopted in Strasbourg at the end of last month. There has also been talk about the Internet Ombudsman. And, as I pointed out, this issue is of increasing importance, it is being spoken more and more and more and more spoken about these issues in different countries by the legislators. The final comment on my part, however, is that I certainly do not want today's debate to become a day-to-day policy before the election, so we will be talking here about very specific cases and discussing who has sent some false news, Fake news, and who it has damaged, and where there is the truth about one or the other information struggle. By the way, I would point out that this very much used term fake news is not recommended for more academic approaches. Instead, we could talk about 'information disorder' or 'disinformation', which is somewhat clearer and also somewhat more neutral, because what we usually mean as 'fake news' is often a phenomenon where there is a component of some partial truth, but that component, which is not true, poses a major problem. But you can also talk about these things more academically and beyond the context of day-to-day attacks. Thus, Ilmar Raag, who is Professor of Liberal Arts at the University of Tartu, will speak to us in his first presentation about drawing the line between influence and free competition of thoughts, which is certainly a very difficult task and creates many disputes. Helen Eenmaa-Dimitrieva, as I have already pointed out, moves into the field of Internet law and dissects how technology affects the development of law. He is also from the University of Tartu. And finally, Ivo Juurvee of the International Centre for Defence Studies is talking about the concept of an influence agent and its development. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U4	Thank you, Andres Herkel! You have at least one question. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U5	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you for raising the subject. You are also quite active at European level. I have often thought that the term 'post-truth society', which has become effective during Brexit, but which is confusing and vague in substance, is certainly linked to today's main issue. I'd like a much better 'pre-truth society' together, we're moving towards the truth, maybe a hundred percent never getting caught. In a situation where, at least theoretically, the truth has been declared an outlaw and everything is possible, is it also felt at those levels of Europe where you represent the Estonian Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U6	Thank you. This was now a very wide-ranging question. The first thing that comes to my mind is the major case of corruption that passed through the political community of the Council of Europe. Ten years ago, I too did not fully understand how it is possible for the representatives of the parliaments of democratic countries to praise countries that are characterised, well, if not to say, by the characteristics of the dictatorship, at least clear manipulations concerning elections, where there is no freedom of political movement and where democratic institutions do not work. How can they protect all of this so passionately? And ten years later, it has turned out that this succession of truth was directly linked to political corruption, where, in certain cases, some sums of money were probably involved. But in general, this post-truth world belongs to the same category as Fake news. But I would avoid using this term as a fish muffler, as a figure, it has done its work at international level and in public space long ago. But if we and all mankind forget to ask the truth and start to give it up, then human society already lacks such an elementary arrangement and progressive beginnings. But I would prefer to live in a world where the truth can always be called into question, but I cannot question the truth as the ideal of such existence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U7	Thank you, Mr. Herkel. No further questions for you. Next, please speak to the strategic communication expert, Professor of Liberal Arts at the University of Tartu, Ilmar Raagi.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U8	Hello and happy Valentine's Day! I also start by saying that the Fake news expression itself is not really the best. On this occasion, I remind myself of how I was in a working group in Brussels about a year ago, which had to examine what could be done at European level against Fake news. People from all over Europe had come together, for whom the condition was that they were not allowed to represent the state, the national institutions, but rather civil society. Newspapers, TV channels, universities and consumer interest groups were represented there. From the very beginning, it was decided that we would disregard this Fake news phrase. Because false news can also occur in public space because of a simple error, and at one point it is far more important how people behave than whether or not specific information is true. Rather, it was based on this behavioral school, which is supported, for example, by people involved in the military field and in information operations, who claim that at some point it is not important whether people are mobilizing under the impulse of truth or wrong, it is important how they behave. As with advertising, it doesn't matter that advertising wins the Golden Egg Award because it's very funny. The important thing is that a person makes this purchase. Now that we, as a country, have to take a position on information, I think that the main question should be the possible impact of information on people's behaviour and constitutional order. That is the way I wish to speak here now about the limits that can be imagined in policy-making. First of all, leverage. Please note that I do not use the words 'propaganda' or 'information operations' here! The impact is something much wider. It means sending any kind of signal to a person that results in a person making a decision and doing something. In the context of foreign policy or defence policy, this message is that Estonia now has a NATO battalion in addition to our own defence forces. Putting this battalion in Estonia is in itself a message that we have sent to the world and to our citizens without saying a single word about it. This is an example of how leverage can be wider than just talking. But on the simplest level, the biggest problem lies in the fact that we all deal every day with some kind of influence -- every day we want other people to do something that we want. Kids, go to bed at last! Kids, come and eat! We're affecting our children, we're working on it. The democratic state itself is founded on the fact that people speak to each other about their ideas, and in the end they expect voters to choose from among these ideas the most acceptable and vote in favour of this idea. Such influence at the most everyday level is the most intrinsic part of democracy at all. Now, step forward from there. We understand that when people talk to each other, even in a passionate democratic dispute, they sometimes use very expressive expressions and sometimes they are angry. And we believe that, as long as the electorate has the right to choose, all these expressions, as well as dealing with information, are a matter of the conscience of politicians or of the public space itself. Because at this point, when we start censoring something, we're going to go down a path where this line will eventually be cloudy and where it may be very difficult to come back at one point. We admit, and I do not think that anyone is going to argue that such a controversial debate in itself and an influence on one another are part of democracy. But I'm already asking the next question, which goes a little further. If foreign politicians, influential commentators and such people say something bad about Estonia, is this the kind of leverage that we should actively confront and turn off the channels where these hostile politicians say something? There are different views on this issue in the world. In America, Russia Today, RT, Sputnik and lobby organisations from different ethnic groups operate freely. Because America is convinced that it's such a strong country that it's empty when someone says something bad about it. Russia's approach is different: media publications with foreign majority participation are not allowed to operate there. All media outlets in Russia are such that Russians have control capital. And if an organization is financed by an alien, then it must be declared as a foreign agent and be uglylyly squeezed. In short, Russia has chosen a completely opposite path to information security than the US. Estonia has so far rather been the bearer of Western attitudes. Does it have any practical background in why the Americans and the Western world have behaved like this in the first place? Yes, it is. It doesn't just have an idealistic explanation. The basic idea is that contact with false information or hate speech does not always mean that it is affected. We're watching some TV shows, and we're thinking, "Damn motherfuckers! It's so disgusting what they're saying and what they're doing! ' If we look at the ratings, they tell us that this or that show was viewed by so many people, so everyone was in favour of the messages on this show. Not by a long shot! The interpretation of messages, contrary to what is desired, is one of the most common phenomena in communication. On this point, we might even ask whether our singing revolution was organized by foreign agents. So far, I haven't met any people who would say it was exactly like that. Even if there were foreign benefactors or consortants, we did it ourselves. Which means that all communication works primarily in the context of the wider social situation. You can take any text you want, but if the context doesn't favor it, the message won't work and it won't work. Well, maybe I'll give you two of the most paradoxical examples. Viktor Kingissepp decided at one point that he was trying to spread the Communist message in Estonia. But the local workers didn't get up the way they hoped. So, in itself, some propaganda or message may not work. Che Guevara revolutionized Cuba and thought that with the same message he would raise up the Bolivian peasants. It didn't happen because the context was different. We see in Estonia that although we are under the influence of hostile Russian federal television channels every day, Estonians generally have not changed their attitudes. As they say, our best defence is that the economy is doing relatively well and the country in general is stable and functioning. As soon as this context disappears, we face a serious problem. And the other way around, if we think that the hostile side of the Russian special services has always maintained the existence of a Russian-Estonian national conflict, we are asking whether its roots are exclusively in influence. If we were to ban Russian TV channels, could we say that the relations between the Estonian and Russian communities will be brilliantly sound the next day? I'm afraid not. Therefore, when acting against influence, the focus must be on root causes and only then decide how to take action against influence. So far, I have been talking about influence within the framework of free competition for ideas, assuming that ideas are in the air and people decide when we can get to the point where we say that free competition for ideas is no longer working. And this is where, a year ago, these European experts found that yes, indeed, the Member States have the right to decide for themselves what kind of speech or other influence they could criminalise or otherwise punish. The most obvious are calls for violence or hatred. We understand that if violence starts, the competition for ideas will no longer work. There's a force on the side that's physically stronger. Now that we are looking at the implementation of measures, Latvia and Lithuania have now banned the transmission of Russian TV production on their territory for three months at different times, in accordance with European rules. And it is not because the Russian television channels said that the Latvian Prime Minister was stupid or something. This is mostly due to incitement to hatred within the framework of Ukrainian-related reflections, because there have indeed been programmes that have literally been invited to go to war against Ukraine. In principle, this provision on incitement to hatred has been accepted at European level and it has been recognised that Latvia and Lithuania were entitled to implement the suspension of television broadcasts in this way. At European level, this has not only been done on Russian television channels. Hezbollah's channel Al-Manar is also banned in several countries, as its programmes also include calls for violence against Israel or against Jews. Again, the legislators said that since there is an immediate risk that radicalised characters will act on these coordinated calls, these messages may be blocked. This activity has expanded since the Internet started to play its role, and it was especially driven in by the current fact that I do not know which was the first, which was the second, when the Islamic State, or Daesh, started spreading its propaganda calls and completely systematically shutting down their Twitter and Facebook accounts, and, on the other hand, the Russians' activities became increasingly intense after 2014, and these accounts were shut down to a significant extent. In short, we understand that one of the criteria that already exists in the Estonian legal space is to punish violent or hateful messages, we call it that. But there are two other things that, in themselves, damage the environment of free competition for ideas. The first of these is the creation of the wrong environment. What does that mean? This means that when a person generally makes his or her decisions not only on the basis of the information he or she receives from somewhere, such as the Internet, but also on the basis of how people behave about him or her, one of the tools for influencing is the use of false accounts. One troll appears at the same time as several and sometimes a few dozen characters. And since it is also possible to do this kind of microtargeting on the Internet in English, people who are radicalistically aware of some kind of conflict inside are being shaped into an environment where they feel that the whole world is already thinking in a certain way. And it gives these people the inner impulse to take these few steps forward in this desired direction in real life. We understand that a man's decision arose, not in conditions of free competition, but because he had been deceived by the use of the environment. The disinformation also works on a mass basis. It's based on a well-known effect among psychologists that if you come across some kind of claim or information a lot, it gets to know you, and at some point you just accept it, whether it's true or not. And in order to achieve this effect again, we need to have a mass that can be achieved, above all, through the Internet, where automation is much easier than in the so-called traditional media. So, we're talking about two criteria. The first is that there is a clear call for violence in messages or in action, and the second is that action includes targeted operations aimed at entering the wrong public space. On this occasion, I will conclude with the question: is Estonia now a victim of active influence or not? I'm gonna say it's like that. Since we are at the same time a country of the European Union and NATO, from the point of view of Russia, we belong to a hostile alliance. It is clear that when Estonia is spoken about in the Russian media, it is mostly not in a positive context. At the same time, I said earlier that the mass generated by the media is used to achieve important effects today, and in terms of big data or large databases, Russia's strategic focus is currently not on Estonia. If we look at how many stories there are in the Russian media room about Ukraine, Syria and the European Union, which are considered to be one of the main pussies, we could say that Estonia is almost not seen. So we cannot now imagine what Russia's real information attack or massive influence could look like, for example, against Ukraine. But since we belong to a hostile alliance with Russia, none of us will release us from the danger that at one point we may be targeted by this attack as well. That concludes my report, and I am happy to answer a few questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U9	Thank you, Professor Ilmar Raag, for his presentation. You have questions too. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U10	Thank you. I also thank the Free Party for raising the question. There would be a lot of questions, but one that has been bothering me for a few years is whether there may be a conflict of interest in the case of a private media company. And if it's a conflict, who's supposed to bring it out? If a minister's actions reduce the profits of these companies, should the private media sign every critical article that this man took a piece of our advertising revenues, so we're calling him names?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U11	I think it ties in with the subject of free competition for ideas. We actually believe that as long as the information is factual, any information is relevant. Well, that minister must have a reason why he cut that income. But while we were going to the playground of the press, I note that the understanding that every publication should always be balanced is not so unambiguously prevalent in the Western world. Let's go to America, which is the best example. Fox News doesn't make any secret that it rather supports a more conservative agenda, but CNN is now a more left or more liberal agenda. Many newspapers from different countries also clearly position themselves in the political struggle. The question is whether in society as a whole people have the opportunity to find alternatives or to come up with their own message in some form. I'd say we have an alternative on the other side of Peipsi. On the other hand, Russia has been very active in the fight against extremism. Under the terms of the acceptance of terrorism, about 140 people were convicted last year, and they also went to prison. It has been found that some of the defendants were wrong to simply share the content they saw on the Internet, even on their own page.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U12	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. In one of the earlier comments you have also spoken about the fact that it is not currently visible that Russia is particularly trying to intervene in the Estonian elections. At the same time, in the case of France, we saw this, we also saw this in the case of the United States, and there are other, smaller countries. These problems have been addressed very closely, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs has also prepared a presentation on the possibilities for and prevention of interference in elections. What is the reason for this supposedly better situation? Has there been any awareness of the problem, or is there any other reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U14	I don't have a definite answer. I rely first of all on the fact that both Latvia and Sweden, where the proportion of messages coming from abroad and the amount of disinformation produced inside were very much monitored, stated that the anticipated attack was cancelled. Why this is not happening and why the situation is relatively calm from the point of view of Estonia at the moment, I do not know for sure. I'd rather talk about speculation. The first is that there is a certain pressure on Estonia and also on Latvia and Lithuania at all times, but the result of this pressure is that there are conflicts in latent form in Estonia and, if necessary, it is possible to escalate the situation in such a way that some conflict becomes very serious. In 2007, for example, this was the case. The question now is whether Russia currently has an interest in escalating the situation in Estonia: what would it do for it? If we look at the data based on the big data, we will see that Russia has clearly focused its attention on strategic targets whose influence produces significant results. The influence of Estonia on its own does not give much to Russia. Therefore, Moscow's main target is still the European Union, and then the influence within the European Union of those countries whose fall away would also be the European Union and the next would be NATO as their second opponent declared in the doctrines. In addition, one of the latest analyses by the American RAND Corporation has indicated that the attention of the Russians is very clearly directed towards the Balkans, that is, in our sense, towards the south. Of course, there they have more prerequisites for success than in Estonia. I think that the steps that Estonia has taken have created a balance in Estonia where a disproportionate amount of force should be used to achieve success, while this progress towards the Balkans might be easier.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U15	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U16	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Thank you very much, waitress. My question concerns the ability to learn. When we had these events in April, Estonia was hit by a massive information attack. And I have to admit, we weren't very prepared for that. It took time to gather, and the preparation was poor. You've been following developments along the lines, but as far as I know, you've also been involved in certain working groups. Are we now, as a country, better prepared for our institutions than something like this should happen in another way? If this massive outside attack comes again, how well are we prepared? How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U17	I think the Estonian state has taken very long steps forward to strengthen its readiness. But this does not mean that the possible crisis will certainly pass in a way that is very simple. I would like to remind you that the basic conditions that need to be ensured that the social context does not give the opportunity to escalate the situation are still valid. The lack of clear understanding between the Estonian Russian community, living in separate information rooms, this is still there, and this creates the prerequisites for a possible new conflict. Similarly, the context has deteriorated in the sense that, even since the problems of the Cohabitation Act have arisen, we have seen a very clear polarisation in society, which means that in conflict situations we may not be able to act as a single society. And the question here is not whether the Estonian state has some kind of information service to prepare for the new crisis. Yes, I think these preparations have been made and we can resist an information attack, but the potential division of society is still a security threat. I will again give an example of the American presidential election, even though we are talking about Russia. During the presidential elections in 2016, Russia's intervention seemed to be in favour of Trump and in favour of Hillary Clinton. However, when a more detailed analysis was started, it became apparent that in fact a very large part of the information activities in Russia were aimed at sponsoring the opposing parties already in conflict simply in order to create chaos. I believe that we do not have to think that what happened in 2007 will happen again. In the current context, it could be repeated that a potential opponent sponsors the most radical groups at the same time, with the desire to bring them together on a single site to fight there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U18	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U19	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Ilmar Raag, for a very interesting presentation. As a communication person, you know that fact is always discourse, and the context gives meaning to the fact. You can see it especially well in history and politics. How do you think it is even possible that some facts in the information war are neutral in a conflict situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U20	I don't think there's ever any neutral information in itself. People are always different, and everyone has their own personal background from which they view information. For example, on September 1, 1939, Estonians and, let's say, Poles may have a similar emotional attitude to it, but someone in Voronezh is completely different. The fact itself, only one date, but there's already an emotion at stake. Neutral information does not exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U21	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Good Ilmar Raag! About two years ago, a security conference came up with this idea. Currently, false news, or Fake news, appear as a "source" mostly in text format, whether on the Internet or in a press release. But soon we will arrive at an era where technological progress will allow false news to be produced in video format to increase their credibility. Can you tell me how far it's gotten?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U23	I think it's gotten pretty far. Already around 2006 and 2007 the BBC said that they had been sent processed photos. There was, for example, a photograph that was published. I don't know exactly what the conflict was, but in any case, it was in the Middle East. We were talking about one half of the bombing, but since the picture itself didn't seem dramatic enough, there was also a cloud of smoke made over that town. It didn't change the fact in itself, but the picture was more dramatic. And that's how it was sent to the BBC. BBC said the city was a city, and then there was smoke when there was an explosion. Later, they were forced to apologize. Now we've come to a situation where, for example, such a ridiculous story was possible, which has been viewed quite a bit on YouTube. Oliver Stone, a famous American film director, is having a conversation with Vladimir Putin, who made a little documentary about him. Putin is showing him an attack video from his cell phone and he's talking about it as a Russian military activity in Syria. But a little bit later, it turns out, in a very crazy way, that it was an American video clip. Putin probably just didn't know at that point that it wasn't an authentic video clip that he was showing Oliver Stone there. Moreover, I dare not claim the facts here, probably because of Ivo Juurvee, improves me to see if a computer game picture can be presented in the head of a real war. And the answer is, yes, we've come to the point where the images generated by the computer are just as dense, so you can view them as authentic photographs. Therefore, my brief answer is: yes, today you can do anything with pictures. And if you're not an expert, if you don't manage to get into that picture, you won't understand the forgery.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U24	Ladies and gentlemen Volmer, Aru and Sarapuu! Unfortunately, the time for asking questions is over. Thank you very much, Professor Ilmar Raag. Let's move on to the next report. Doctor of Law, IT Law Research Fellow of the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu Helen Eenmaa-Dimitrieva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners! Let us now look at the influence from the point of view of law. Technology affects justice, justice systems. We actually see it every step of the way. But what does it mean for generally safe and democratic societies like ours? I'm a philosopher from my background, a lawyer, a legal economist. As a lawyer, I know that we have a professional tendency to map risks and list all the ways in which something can go wrong. But if we are dealing with new technologies, then you can and perhaps you should see the role of a lawyer as not only a risk mapping officer and a status quo defender, but also as a leader in finding new solutions. We cannot sustain a way of life that used to be before the technologies used to assemble or influence profiles, let alone the way of life that existed before electronic payments. It was all a long time ago, we live in a different world. But there are some things we can do. We can move towards designing new principles of justice and finding and implementing the technological solutions that are necessary for them. To some extent, I have also tried to do this in my work, for example in building the study and research programme of IT law at the University of Tartu, but recently also in the framework of the European Doctorate in Law and Development (EDOLAD), for example, where we study the impact of technology on the legal systems of developing countries. We've been working all over the world. In a few weeks' time, we will be conducting a major summer school in South Africa. We have invited many lecturers and PhD students from European and African universities. If we examine the impact of technology on legal systems, what questions should and could be asked? Not long ago, information consisted mainly of written or printed documents and works of art. Now the information is dynamic, interactive, it's a lot, and there's a lot of ways to get it. These problems are now more expressive because we have seen attempts to intervene in elections and referendums, and false news factories are constantly in operation. Daily activity means sharing many of your data with businesses and institutions for any reason. By the way, have you heard of dataism? Not from the flow of art from dadaism, but from dataism as a theory that we have not yet grasped the real value of data and the world belongs to those with a higher computing capability? This point of view seeks to minimise concerns about democracy and personal autonomy. In this context, it is certainly worth asking whether unnoticed collection and use of data undermines trust and cooperation in society, whether democracy is weakening in relation to the inadequacy of information. How to protect the rule of law and decision-making processes? How can we protect the good functioning of society and the most vulnerable groups in society? But there is something else that should make us think about what is happening in the area of information and data. I like the way Linnet Taylor wrote about it. When people use their own technical equipment and different services, the production of data (data fumes) related to this activity has led to data being no longer used to support policies, but to lead policies and decision-making processes. From the data smoke of human activities, conclusions can be drawn on their movements, activities and patterns of behaviour, and this leads to practical but also ethical and political follow-up of how these people are treated. Data-based discrimination takes the same step as data-processing technologies, but awareness of it and the mechanisms to deal with this discrimination do not do so. Research, as well as practical work on how dataisation can serve the interests of citizenship, freedom and social justice, has managed to do quite little, but it seems essential in Estonia as well. After all, we have no understanding of what is fair in a world enriched with data. These justice concepts we have are very old. What would be fair behaviour that takes into account people's choices to be visible or not visible, involved or not involved, and how can they be protected from discrimination? The current data protection regulation is not expected to be a sufficient solution. Nor can it be assumed that the collection of unlimited data about us is simply part of a modern social contract. Well, you can't just assume that! What, then, would be the right and practical approach to address this issue? In America in the 1960s, the course of research, which has now become dominant in legal education and courts, began to develop rapidly. In Estonia it is not well known enough, but elsewhere in Europe it can see its impact. It's called legal economics. This is an area that deals with the question of how legislation can make society more efficient, i.e. more efficient, and how to apply legislation to the welfare of society. Legal economics describes and justifies legal mechanisms that can reduce risks in society, make better choices and improve well-being. For example, let's talk about a triplet: the legal system of information These are all mechanisms to reduce risks. For example, when people have information, they make better choices and reach agreements that help to improve the well-being of all parties involved. The parties are not better able to share one pie, but the availability of information ensures that the pie grows. Information is like oil to help the engine run. This is something on which the effectiveness of transactions and the well-being of society depend. If we have true information, it will be easier for us to create and maintain different relationships, personal, business, etc. It is not only necessary to maximize the number of true beliefs or to minimise the number of false beliefs. In order to maximize the number of true beliefs, it is practical to believe everything you hear and read. And in order to minimize the amount of false beliefs, it is practical not to believe anything. But it doesn't take us far. We need the best possible current understanding of what information is true and what is not. Just as with information, the legal system can also be a means of ensuring a more efficient functioning of society and improving the well-being of society. More generally, legislation is just one type of code of conduct in society, i.e. moral standards. A mechanism similar to information and standards for communicating with society is provided by trust. Trust contributes to building and maintaining relationships. This is necessary for both social and business relations. We know that there are societies with a high level of trust and a low level of confidence. In order to do something about a society with a low level of trust, you have to go through a longer juniper to prove something about yourself and what you want to do. The more trust in society, the lower the barriers, the smoother and more efficient the engine of society will be. Here, it might be noted that studies show that if we develop greater inequalities in information or in resources or opportunities, there will also be grounds for distrust. Then we need a more nuanced legal system to work together and to make society work better. In some countries, high walls are also needed, etc. In summary, information, trust and justice are all means to improve the well-being of society and, at the same time, to create a fair data economy. How do new technologies affect justice and the capacity of society to cooperate? In legal economics, mechanisms for enforcing agreements and regulations have been mapped out. There are four of them in general. We can rely on personal value systems, the normative organisation of communities, the standard systems guaranteed by the use of force, as well as technologies. If we rely on the person's own value system to enforce standards, we rely on his values. He'd feel bad if he didn't keep his promise. If we rely on a second-party enforcement mechanism, it means that we rely on agreements and norms being enforced by virtue of community relations, social norms, some kind of office or, for example, belonging to a particular circuit. The role of reputation is important here. Compliance with and enforcement of the so-called "third party" or so-called Leviathan-type rules is based on centralised power. This is typical of some legal systems. Agreements and standards will be respected because they will be required by the regime in force in society, which is guaranteed by the use of force. Alongside these, new technologies provide a fourth way to enforce and enforce standards, thanks to automation. Wise agreements, for example, provide such an opportunity. Automated enforcement can be a solution if potential cooperation partners are unknown to each other and remote from the geographical point of view or in the sense of jurisdiction. These solutions provide opportunities to create new markets. They are beneficial in environments where other instruments for enforcing an agreement may be used to influence consumers or voters. In this sense, they will help to increase the autonomy of individuals a little in response to the current trend. Similarly, it is possible to democratise markets in the sense that these technologies create opportunities for less influential market participants to conclude contracts in markets that have so far been more open to large players. In summary, we know these four mechanisms, but it is important to know that law and legislation are not A and O, they are not the only solution. We often forget about it as lawyers and law - related professions. More generally, all the positive incentives we create for participants in society are important for the cohesion of society. We do not only increase trust and cooperation in society by legal means; they can also be created through personal value systems, social standards or communities, as well as technologies. In the context of information security, we need a more meaningful combination of mechanisms and competition. It would be very helpful. It would be good to use all opportunities to develop the capacity of society to cooperate and decision-making processes. And finally. We do not yet have an understanding of what is fair in a world enriched with data. At the same time, we have questions that could be answered by a number of scientists and practitioners. In a world enriched by this data, what is this fair conduct? What principles would best take into account people's choices to be visible or not visible, involved or not involved, and how can they be protected from discrimination? The development of a safe and democratic state requires, alongside other sciences, legal science and philosophy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U26	Thank you for your presentation, Doctor of Law Helen Eenmaa-Dimitrieva! You have questions too. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U27	Thank you, Honourable Chairman and good Helen. We have a quite new and current area of IT law that is currently being dealt with in Estonia. You're one of the creators of this study and research program. Can you tell me if it is possible to measure the initial results in the implementation of this program and, if so, what these first results could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U28	Thank you for your question. Yes, these results can certainly be measured. I am pleased that the Master's, Supplementary and Doctoral programs that have been created are being completed by a number of students. At least a hundred masters and refreshers will finish by summer. At least six doctoral thesis are in the final stages. My initiative, of course, was only one of several in this area. The technical university also has a technology law program. Without the technology component, universities no longer teach any specialty. I would not give priority to my role in the development of the study of technology law introduced in Estonia, but I am glad that the process that was launched at the University of Tartu has gone very well. The fact that we are dealing with technology law has brought a lot of positive feedback. Thanks to this, we can also transport these issues in international networks. One good example is the preliminary EDOLAD network, which includes discussions in developing countries on how justice and technology hand in hand can help to solve certain issues in developing countries. Within this network, we have been able to do a great deal, thanks to our own expertise, to make these discussions a success.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U29	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. And thank you for introducing this concept of dataism. Yeah, the world belongs to those who have more data, and you don't always know if the Internet collects data about me or if I search it. But I have also met one of the concepts of Nethineutality, i.e. whether we choose services ourselves or whether we are given these services and applications in advance. How do you assess the development of law in this area in different European countries? How much can be prescribed here for different private operators, too, and in what direction is everything developing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U31	Thank you for that question. I have not dealt directly with the issue of Internet neutrality, and I do not want to say much about it. In general, I do not think there is much to be written about in the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U32	George Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U33	Thanks for the interesting talk. But let me ask you a little bit in the same direction. This dataism, I remembered a rather infamous company called Cambridge Analytica. The company reportedly collected social media data that were used, among other things, in the election of the President of the United States. Do you know a little bit more about this case? What real force of this dataism can it be that such a thing is possible? If you're informed a little bit more about this Cambridge Analytica, maybe you can tell me something.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U34	Thank you. It was only a few months ago that I had a good opportunity to talk to people who are the authors of the research that was based on Cambridge Analytica's activities. Research was, of course, carried out in the light of scientific interest. It examined how much it is possible to find out about people by looking at their social profiles, how much information can be compiled on the basis of very few data on people. Research showed that it is very easy to ask the right questions. In the spirit of dataism, it is possible to collect other data about people when they are on some kind of social platform or whatever online environment and click on something. Profiling a person on the surface of these choices is simple enough. This was also demonstrated by the research on which Cambridge Analytica's activities were based and on which basis very much information was gathered about people, which was later used in political processes. The exact way they used that information should be investigated. The fact itself that there is much to be concluded on the basis of very little indicates that attention should be paid to such activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U35	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. My question relates to the formation of new legal principles, trust and distrust, the functioning of society when people live in different information fields. It is interesting to monitor such systems in areas where these confrontations are particularly strong. One such region is the Middle East. Israel has reached an extremely strong pace in this information war, or what we call it. We could still call the Balkans, right, and Syria. Do you have any information on Israel's conduct in this war on information operations, in a situation where it is under pressure from all Arab countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U37	Thank you for that question. I'm also very interested in how exactly they behave, how they conduct their information operations. However, more accurate information is available to people who have engaged in specific operations and who have studied it. But I'm very interested in that, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U38	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this educational presentation. You also touched on the concept of 'fair data economy', which is probably a very broad and also compelling concept. Who should explain this in Estonia as one of the leading digital countries and how can this be taken into account when developing database architecture? Fair data management and data management are important for all our digital development.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U40	Thank you. That, too, is a very important question for me. The principles of justice were also the subject of my doctoral thesis at Yale University, including a point of view of justice and a point of view of legal economics. No one deals with such topics in Estonia. Lawyers are training lawyers, teaching practical skills. The philosophy of justice, of course, is included in the curricula, but the discussions on 'the use of law as a tool versus the right as an art of goodness and justice' I do not see here, and that is very unfortunate. Not to mention that Estonia does not deal much with the principles of parental justice. Fortunately, in recent years some old works have been translated into Estonian, but this is not a debate; this is the beginning of a debate. Discussions on the legal principles of the parents are almost not taking place and have not been able to discuss what new justice or understanding of justice could be like at all now that the data economy is very active. It is now necessary to decide what would be a fair approach for those people who want to make choices: whether they are visible, whether they are discriminated against in any way. What are the principles of justice that should guide us in this new context? This issue is, of course, being written and discussed in the world, and we should, also in view of the good technological development of our country, participate in these discussions. This requires lawyers, but also philosophers, especially legal philosophers, as well as legal economists on the economics side, who can analyze rights from a slightly different perspective. This is a weakness of this field of law, all the more so as there is not enough resources to hold such debates.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U41	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Do you not think that this concept of fairness should be addressed at different levels in school programmes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U43	Thank you for that question. Yes, of course, school programs include philosophy to some extent. Justice is a concept that we are familiar with as a child, but to understand it in depth and to understand the principles that we should apply when we try to create a cohesive society, research and active discussion of highly educated people are needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U44	Honourable Doctor of Law Helen Eenmaa-Dimitrieva! No further questions for you. Thank you for your presentation and for answering your questions. Please speak to Ivo Juurvee, Doctor of History of the Research Fellow of the International Centre for Defence Studies!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, who are watching this session via the internet stream! Don't let this slide get in your way for now! An Estonian translation is also immediately followed. As I was told, it's of poor quality, but since it's an original document, I thought there might be a little taste like this. But first of all, it's an honor to be here. Thanks for inviting me. Since there are many opinions, I will try to talk about some facts that might interest you. However, the concept of 'influence agent' and some of the active measures are mainly mentioned. The definition of terms was already a little bit of a story here, no that fake news is a very scattered concept. The same may apply to an "influence agent" and in this case it becomes a single word word that is used to stamp people but does not have such a deep content. Just as our eastern neighbour in the country has the term 'fascist', which simply means a politically undesirable person, nothing more or less. But, of course, it is a free country, and it is certainly not mandatory for anyone to use these concepts as I am speaking here. As we have learned in recent days, reference is very important. Since I am not referring to you in this presentation, you have been printed out as a handout in my article on the editors of Defence United Educational Institutions at the end of last year. In this, the definitions I use here are not always the best and most useful way to communicate them. But yes, the term "influence agent" comes from the KGB. It is not known exactly when it was to be used, probably from 1950 to 1960. in the 1990s. The definition was written at the latest at the beginning of the 1970s and gradually, along with the run-over Soviet intelligence officers, reached the west, where it was also taken over by the academic community and started to be used more or less as happened. This pretty original definition actually reached west only in 1992, when the KGB's first general government, or foreign intelligence officer, Vassili Mitrohhin, had been an archivist and rewritten many things. By the way, that slide up ahead comes from Cambridge, it's part of the Mitrochini legacy. The definition of influence agent from 1970, which was rewritten and taken west, was as follows: 'Agent, who works according to the instructions of the intelligence service and uses his official or public position and other means to influence politics, public opinion, the course of events, the activities of political organisations and the state agencies of the countries of destination. 'In principle, there's been a summary of any influence here, but it's the word 'agent' that matters. The agent was defined elsewhere. An agent means a person who is recruited, gets paid by the KGB and works according to KGB instructions. So very limited content. Why did you have to define it in the first place? Because the KGB had a wide range of agents: in addition to the influence agents, ordinary agents collecting information, conspirative housing agents, etc. But in our discourse today or at all, let's say, in the discourse during the Cold War in the West, we don't mean exactly that. People whose views simply coincide with those of Russia or the former Soviet Union are also considered to be an influence agent. And actually, the KGB also had another, interesting definition in our context: trusty contacts, or doveritellõje svjazi. We are talking about foreign nationals who, without being an agent, provide intelligence officers with interesting information and assist them in carrying out secret tasks, in content intelligence tasks, based on their ideological or political preferences, material interest or personal relationships with intelligence officers. Secret contacts don't have any responsibilities to an intelligence officer. And if there are no obligations, there will be no direct remuneration. And already at that time, during the Cold War, there was a problem and it is likely that it is practically very difficult to detect and punish such people, to distinguish between them and the agents. In a good case, the special service can do this; worse, historians can do it decades later, or in a bad case, such people can never be identified. By the way, there is also a separate concept of 'trusted impact contacts', but I wouldn't stop at that. Coming a little closer to today and inviting you to think along, I'm talking about something like active measures, which is also the definition of KGB, but which is nothing in the past. If we dismantle the Foreign Intelligence Act in force in our neighbouring country since 1996 that is confirmed by Boris Yeltsin, we will see that we are talking about positive measures, but basically it means the same thing. The Agency's operational actions will be taken into account to influence aspects of the political life of the country of destination, including external policy and international issues. The enemy is being led astray, his positions are being weakened in the defeat of hostile plans and in the achievement of other goals. Well, this 'agency operational measures' sounds kind of fancy, like a bit of a bondifilm, but if you look at this slide that you've been given as a handout and the translation I put there, you'll see that there's nothing very complicated really. Slaid has a division of active actions of the first General Government of the KGB, or the Seventh Department of the General Government of Foreign Intelligence, in 1973. The seventh division was a "geographical department' dealing with four residencys: India, Japan, Pakistan and Bangladesh. A bit of a reminder of the foreign policy situation at the time. In 1971 there had been a war between India and Pakistan, where the Soviet Union supported India and where a new country called Bangladesh emerged from eastern Pakistan. As you can understand yourself, in 1973 Pakistan was certainly very hostile to the Soviet Union, while India was also very friendly, and Bangladesh was also relatively friendly. Japan was rather neutral. But what do we see from this slide? The most active measures were carried out not in hostile Pakistan, but in friendly India. Before we go to it alone, let us think about what it could mean today when there is social media and the internet at all. Many of these measures are now much easier and much cheaper to implement. First, published articles, as you can see, almost 3,000 articles in India. In India, the publication of articles was still good in that, since there is a part of the press in English, it was very easy to circulate these articles in other countries. If you look at the bottom line, you'll see that there are ten KGB subsidised newspapers. Second, the letters sent. In the event that some good writing was able to be pressed in, it was xerocopyed and sent to politicians, journalists, opinion leaders in many ways. And 3020 of them have been sent out. That too may have been quite expensive fun. When it was necessary to cover its tracks, letters had to be posted from a country or at least a city where there was no Soviet diplomatic representation, fingerprints had to be hidden, etc. All this was time-consuming. Today, if there is an internet, there is social media, such things can be done much faster and easier. Published books, brochures, meetings, meetings organised by the KGB or, as you can see, at least affected by it, are also relatively numerous. The statements here refer to public statements by opinion leaders in the media. Influence conversations, speeches in Parliament, this is interesting. As you can see, in a semi-neutral or rather hostile Japan, eight speeches have succeeded, as has the Indian Parliament, which was very friendly. Of course, there is no difference between how important these calls were or how influential they were, and maybe these eight calls were made by the same person. Finally, demonstrations. I think it's a pretty interesting slide. As we know from the KGB theory, there were four main modes of active action. One was disinformation, it means false news, or the so-called fake news they're talking about these days. The second was exposure. I think we could classify here as exposing any anti-Soviet plans. We can also apparently expose the use of a variety of signal intelligence information for leverage. We all remember well the election campaign in the United States, which was hacked into the mailboxes, but we can also think about March 2014 when our own Foreign Minister and our High Representative for Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Catherine Ashton, were eavesdropped and immediately used in propaganda. Now, since I have this slide on the screen, I really don't know exactly how much time I have left. I'm starting to get my story together quietly, and I'm starting to come to some conclusions. The activities of the special services are a very complex subject, at least in real time. This is one reason why this work uses either a comparison between different regions or, to a certain extent, a comparison between different ages. In this sense, it is good that we have more and more material available about the past and more and more materials from today are coming from the influence of special services. This is particularly true of the current trials in the United States, where various information is made available. Secondly, the term has changed and the active measures are not spoken about today, we are talking about encouraging measures, but such action at the level of the law is the task of our special services of our eastern neighbour. So it's not some kind of action that exists, I don't know, just in the heads of scientists or journalists. Thirdly, influence does not only include the big data that was previously mentioned here. The good old influence agents are unlikely to be lost, and special Western services, including our own Foreign Intelligence Service, have made warnings on this issue from time to time. These warnings could be taken seriously. Of course, under the conditions of freedom of opinion, it is difficult to declare influencers illegal. But, as we know from the time of the Cold War, the main motivations for such action have still been material gain. In this way, it would seem reasonable to use the existing anti-money laundering laws, as well as the defamatory laws, to some extent reduce this problem. Certainly technological progress does not reduce these problems, does not inhibit the use of agents, rather makes it easier. Finally, perhaps one question to consider is the following composition of the Riigikogu: it is more precise regulation of lobbying activities. Of course, we have freedom of expression, but if a person who sends some kind of message very forcefully receives significant amounts of money from a foreign country for this or for some other reason, it might be appropriate to require these amounts to be declared. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U46	Thank you, Honourable History Doctor Ivo Juurvee! You have at least one question. George Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U47	Thanks for the interesting talk. Here's the question. You spoke here about the KGB, how thoroughly thought out not only terminology, but also the meaning of this whole work. Even with these agents and other agents, there must be about ten different species of them. Haven't you ever felt like it was all religious in some way? Let's look at the same table: the most tried and tried to influence India. Would such a religious approach, or even the context of a religious war, be possible? Would such interpretation be possible? It is not like it does not fall under the usual legal positive approach that the West has been pursuing since the 19th century.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U48	Thank you. It's a complicated question, I've never thought about it from that point of view. I wouldn't say it was just religious. Maybe I didn't really explain India's activities. It is still possible to get these, let's say, initial messages somewhere and to circulate them in other places afterwards in a friendly environment. If the counterintelligence environment is very unfriendly, it won't get far. If we had, let's say, some undercover intelligence officer who worked at the Soviet Embassy went to a Pakistani journalist in Pakistan with some material and said that you see, I have some very interesting material here, maybe you put it in the paper, it would probably have ended quite quickly. It wasn't like that in India. Similarly, I think it is also now: what cannot be done directly is perhaps easier and more sensible to do through third countries. Given how many spies have been captured in Estonia lately, it can be said that the so-called counterintelligence environment is certainly not friendly and does not favour such illegal activities here. However, it may be done somewhere else, including using our own citizens somewhere beyond the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U49	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this presentation. I want to be more specific about the rules of lobbying. Do you have any information on how they have been implemented in other countries? The rules of lobby are certainly broader than the precautionary measures against external influence. There are also all kinds of internal influences. Our anti-corruption commission has also formulated the rules for lobbying members of the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, the Board of the Riigikogu has not come with it. And international organisations expect there actually to be lobbying rules for the government. We haven't talked about it at all. Do you have any insight into how they are implemented in a democratic country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U51	Thank you. If I were to say that I have a very clear view of this, it would be an over-exploited saying. First of all, I'm not a lawyer from my education, and second of all, language skills set their limits. To some extent, I have come to know what has been done in the United States, which is understandable by language. But if you wanted to move on to this topic, it would certainly be wise to order and analyse such an analysis for Estonia, which could be the best practices to take over. Of course, it is always possible to turn a thing into a farce or to turn it over, as we can see in the eastern neighbourhood, where all NGOs are being twisted relatively strongly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U52	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U53	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, good waitress, for a very interesting informative story. That's the kind of thing I'm asking. You argued that the history of special services is very difficult to investigate and that there must be enough time distance to be able to do so. How long could a minimum period be before a period becomes a study in a calm, academic key? When can we expect, for example, the history of the special services of the Republic of Estonia? And how long has it been since you wrote a book like this since the 1990s?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U54	Thank you. I just wrote one last year. The direct answer to the question of how long this time distance should be, in my opinion, does not exist. It depends on many things, but time distance should be sufficient in the sense that there are already relevant sources. In the event that some large source array becomes very unexpectedly available, the day before yesterday may also be examined. We have seen extensive document leaks in relation to Snowden and other people. So from time to time, some materials can become available very quickly and unexpectedly. But you can study different periods from different distances. For example, the period between the two world wars is very good to study on the one hand: there are quite a few documents that you can access. But, on the other hand, there are no more people alive to ask how these things were. When Googled for later periods, it is positive that it is possible to do interviews, although there are somewhat fewer documents available.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U55	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U56	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you! Well, that was interesting. I'm gonna ask you a naive but vital question. For a little while, maybe weeks ago, I got an e-mail asking if I wanted free books. I'm a reader person, I still do. And now today, just an hour ago, a book translated into Estonian by Turkish dissident Gülen came into my mailbox. I admit I haven't read it yet, because it just came. On the basis of your report, is this a very classic case? Is that how this leverage works?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U57	Thank you. Each case must be dealt with separately and consider each time the book is given and why it is given. Often it may be that a person has written a book and is happy to give it to someone. I'm sure you don't want to start looking for SVR or some other secret service when a free book is offered. Of course, books like these, especially opinion leaders, as you are sure to be in this Chamber, are sent from time to time. Today, the difference between the Cold War and the Cold War is that it does not have to be done by special services; it can also be done by private individuals or other people who have some sort of ulterior motive. In the case of this book, I assume there is some hope of changing and influencing your opinions. It's not always bad. And in case you don't read anything, it's very difficult to be informed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U58	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for your presentation. You didn't deal with one important area of intelligence and the KGB and the GRU, it's world finance. We'll take it from here close to us: Danske, Latvian banks, stuff like that. There will certainly be enough money flowing through banks to influence countries, governments, economies, as well as people's concept of democracy and everything else. Please, would you talk about some of the dangers in finance that you are unaware of?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U60	Thank you. In my opinion, in the final part of my presentation, I mentioned that the existing laws on money laundering should, to some extent, allow for the prevention of abuse. In the letter, I had it anyway, but maybe I forgot to mention it. I'm not sure I can offer you any miracle medicine here. I guess it's the same as, I don't know, maybe compare to the dental laundry. It may be that once you leave your teeth unwashed, nothing will happen, but if you do not brush your teeth at all, the sad consequences are likely to come sooner or later. It's the same with money laundering. If we don't know where the money comes from or where it's going, then there's definitely danger. It is clear that probably something illegal has been done there before, and very possibly something illegal will be done in the future. Is this organized crime or leverage from foreign countries? I don't think we can tell the difference, and maybe we don't always have to try. We simply need to try to be vigilant in this area as a preventive measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U61	Thank you. We have repeatedly witnessed certain political forces beating national conservatives into Nazis, yet putinists. The reason is often that they share the same values as Putin, i.e. they support Christian worldview and traditional family values, etc. What could be involved in such a case? Is it simply a malicious lie and demagogue of political opponents, or is it already a matter of useful idiots or influence agents who actually follow the instructions given by the very same Kremlin in order to divide our society and thus marginalise certain political forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U62	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U63	Thank you. That's a good question. To some extent, I tried to answer it in my report, but the important problem is that some things can fall apart without any, I don't know, dark forces or special services. I'll bring a cold war, for example. Well, then it was certainly the fight against nuclear weapons, which became very popular in many Western countries. Of course, a large part of the people who were active at the time did not realise that this activity was partly directed from Moscow and financed from it. But it was. I think that in the future, if at some point we should have the need to build a nuclear power plant in Estonia, then if we ask whether it is in the interests of our eastern neighbour, the answer is very simple: certainly not. Will Russia take some action to make sure that this station is not built? At the same time, it is also quite clear that very many people are opposed to nuclear power without having any connection with Russia or wishing to represent some foreign position in any way. So once again, that's the complicated question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U64	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U65	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, thank you for an interesting presentation. Today, influence and the Internet have been discussed here on quite a number of occasions. Russia has a plan to create its own internet and turn itself off from the Internet. I don't care if this plan comes true. But now I ask you to do ungrateful work and speculate that if this happens, how will it affect us and the rest of the democratic Western world?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U66	Thank you. I'm not very familiar with that. As far as I am concerned, Russia would rather work on the possibility of shutting itself off the Internet if necessary. And that's what he's gonna practice. How does that affect us? This means that if there were to be some kind of major internal crisis, which would make the current regime seriously afraid of its positions, then perhaps communication with foreign countries would simply be interrupted. This means that we will no longer know exactly what is going on there, and even less will people there know what is going on abroad. It's certainly not good for us, but it's not a very drastic threat for us either.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U67	A good colleague, Enn Meri, unfortunately, the time for questions and answers is over. Thank you, Doctor of History Ivo Juurvee, for his presentation and for answering questions. I'm opening negotiations. At the request of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, it is proposed that the representatives of the political groups who have spoken first be present. Erki Savisaar, as a representative of the group? Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start a little further. As a computer specialist and computer enthusiast, I've been dealing with security issues for a long time. My first experience in information security dates back to the early '90s. At the time, no one paid much attention to it. The systems were also very simple and even the schoolboy, who acquired his first computer skills, was able to make a piece of the program that managed to get the system leader's usernames so that he could share additional privileges with himself or his friends online. The same methodology allows you to view and modify all documents and data in the system. The best-known example may be WikiLeaks, but I think the most dangerous is identity theft. In general, there are also much simpler methods of manipulating data and information than hacking or fishing. Today, cyber security has become an integral part of both the functioning of the country's economy and internal and external security. We have seen the damage that can be done through both traditional hacking and social manipulation through social media. In today's hybrid attacks, these two combinations are used: once systems are taken over and data manipulated, messages are broadcast as well-known people, increasing the impact of the attack. Social manipulation is not new, it has been used for centuries, but its scale and speed, which can be achieved in today's digital society, is insane. Whether it's simple false news somewhere on the portal, posts on Facebook or videos on YouTube. It is interesting to observe how YouTube and social media channels have become a more important channel of communication than traditional media newspapers, television and radio. Security is not a service or goods that can be purchased. Security is a code of conduct and, by nature, a process that is constantly evolving. And that also means that we are all jointly responsible for our home, for our company and also for the security and security of our country. Only common sense and peasant logic wins. Nothing complicated, let's be smart! I do not think it is possible to contain this area with harsh laws; rather, society's awareness is the solution. We cannot regulate global trends locally. The older generation clearly remembers the time when the newspapers had to be read between the lines because nothing could be said or written directly. Under the current conditions of freedom of expression, the situation is similar: you can say everything, but everything you say is not true. It is also important to make a difference whether the performer says what he thinks or wonders what he says, and whether what he says is what he thinks. As a result, information analysis skills are essential, and when reading news and documents, you need to think about why, in whose interest, indeed, etc. This is a skill that both young and old need. In time, technology has improved. We all already know what antivirus software, username and password is, maybe soon we'll know everything that's cratt. But technology alone is not enough, we must be smart ourselves. Apart from direct information security and social protection, I would like to talk about another subject: artificial intelligence. Speaking of artificial intelligence, or crat, it's not worth talking to yourself about super-smart human-like robots from Hollywood movies. The artificial intelligence begins with a relatively simple linear solution where the computer program decides whether to move forward or backwards. At the other end of the scale are self-taught algorithms that use data analysis and open data to make decisions, and after that maybe such robot-like structures. The problem is that our code does not give the programmes any discretion and data protection limits the mass processing of data. I am convinced that the next Riigikogu will have to resolve this issue if we want to continue to be innovative. Banning is not the solution. The question of who is responsible must be resolved. Who is responsible if the computer program makes a wrong or controversial decision? It must also be decided whether this responsibility can be delegated, for example, whether it is possible to insure itself against such risks. In the private sector, this is not a problem, it is the responsibility of the entrepreneur, but at national level, this responsibility requires clearer regulation, including the question of who is responsible for the security and coherence of these systems. We live in a very exciting time at a time when society is developing rapidly. We need to think innovatively and find solutions to protect ourselves and the people from false news, but we also need to think about how to provide even better and more human-centred national services. This is one of the foundations of a fair state, and I believe that it could become a topic in which there is a consensus among political parties, as we have a consensus on defence issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U69	Thank you, Erki Savisaar! Andres Herkel next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U70	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable guests! Thank you for this debate. As I said at the beginning, we are not able to cover all these very large areas, but I would like to make some conclusions or some conclusions, as I promised at the beginning. I am also pretty sure that both artificial intelligence issues and many other issues must be resolved in the next Riigikogu. First of all, point one. I think that the Estonian state must have the capacity to professionally monitor and analyse what is happening on social networks. If necessary, the obvious information disorders should be screened out of there, deliberately distributed disinformation, dangerous calls to respond to them, with the utmost caution. If it is possible not to react, then it is important not to react, because an unnecessary reaction can cause very serious adverse effects. But this capacity must undoubtedly exist for us, given the changed media environment and the social media intruder. Secondly, digital education and development of digital education, including, of course, the teaching of media critical assessment. The teaching of the digital society must enter curricula; it is actually a preparation for living in today's society. In fact, this society is getting out of the way for generations, and certainly older people do not really adapt to it. After all, we have made calls for proper health and traffic behaviour through social advertising. Perhaps something similar should be implemented in the digital field: people should be invited to keep a critical evaluation of cyber hygiene and information sources. I know what the risk is of going to say that this source is reliable and that it is not reliable, but such a sense of criticism is certainly very important. Thirdly, Estonia should certainly support the principle of net neutrality as much as possible. This is opposition to the same dataism that Helen Eenmaa-Dimitrieva spoke about earlier. Still, we're running the data, not the data are supposed to be leading us. Human rights are a major area on the Internet. There's gotta be equal access in the same way. This is an area with which the Riigikogu has dealt with all these fast connections, regardless of geographical area and location in the region. There's gotta be access to the Internet. The other side, however, is the protection of privacy and personal data on the Internet. There is an unsolvable contradiction here, which probably cannot be regulated 100%. We must be able to guarantee the privacy of the participants at the same time, but we must also guarantee basic freedom of expression. These principles conflict with one another in this complex world. When it comes to the 'greatest threat', I believe that the greatest threat is the safety of vital media. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U71	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U72	I might not have thought of it myself and mentioned it here, but the esteemed Ivo Juurvee brought up the rules of lobby. I also think that this is extremely important in our work. In fact, it is also about protecting the work of a politician and probably in many other disciplines. If there has been one attempt to influence or contact, the purpose of which is not fully understood, it must be documented and dated, it must be written down who exactly participated, and it must be made clear the motives, the interests of which are served, etc. This recommendation from the Council of Europe is an outstanding rule of lobbyism in Estonia, too, should have a higher status in our work than the recommendations developed by the Anti-Corruption Commission alone. One more thing. I want to thank Erki Savisaar for introducing the subject of artificial intelligence. It is a question of who is responsible when the computer program makes a wrong decision and who is responsible for the security of the systems. I think it is a question of synchronisation of technological development and the development of law that we will have to deal with in the near future. I forgot to mention earlier that on this issue too, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has one document in work, and it should be completed sometime. But the final call for all political parties and all politicians is that we should actually enter into a goodwill agreement involving political parties, including members of political parties, politicians at all. It's an agreement that we don't write anonymous comments and we don't use fake accounts. I do not think that this must be done in any way festively in this pre-election atmosphere, but, in view of the future, this would certainly be a very important point in the code of ethics for politicians and policymaking. I once again thank all the performers for coming in and for their interesting presentations. I am pretty sure that the cooperation between the Riigikogu and you must continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U73	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U74	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear waitresses today, guests! Of course, information security is a very important issue. It is so important that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has recently devoted the entire report to this area. And I was very happy to catch a number of familiar nuances from today's presentations. As was the case here several times today, using information operations and leverage operations by a foreign country is not a new discovery or a new issue. But as underlined, the techniques used for this are increasingly brazen and increasingly sophisticated. What or, let's say, what threat should we pay particular attention to here in Estonia? It is no secret that we are facing the greatest threat from the eastern border: manipulations, information operations, the formation of public opinion in such a way as to please them, friendly policies against them, as well as politicians, in a good light, policies and politicians that are very critical of them in a worse light, to be discredited. We have seen this not only in Estonia but also in several other countries. Similarly, of course, hacking, stealing documents, their selective use to influence public opinion, all this is a common arsenal used. We are often of the opinion here in Estonia that since we have seen this type of tricks and experiments for a very long time, we are somehow more immune. We think we're smart enough to recognize an information operation from a distance. In my opinion, however, it is very reasonable to ask whether we are as clever as we are when new technologies are involved. Do we really recognize a massive information attack when it is done in a language we understand, precisely purposed and very philigrane? Freedom of expression is one of the topics that has also gone through today's speeches, presentations and questions. Can recognising and responding to information attacks in any way jeopardise Estonia's freedom of expression? In any case, it is clear that such a situation must not arise. But I still want to stress here today that when we are talking about danger and the information war, we are talking about attacks from a foreign country. The emphasis is on the word 'foreign'. Organised massive disinformation campaigns have been one of the main weapons that we have also seen in the event of a number of recent elections being influenced. This is not a single and half-joke social media post, but an organized massive, precisely targeted campaign focused on incitement to tensions and also on dividing the people. Of course, it would be hopeless to face it without the help of the media, the third sector and the business sector. I would like to parallel cyber-attacks: even in cyber-attacks, it is not conceivable that the state can prevent them alone, with its own strength alone. Free media, however, have a very important role to play in this whole modern war, and this role is, of course, based precisely on self-regulation by the media. But what can the country do? Firstly, having dealt with this issue quite thoroughly for some time now, I would say that, unfortunately, we still have some fragmentation to deal with this issue. There should be one single unit that coordinates and not only coordinates this whole area, but also provides all the know-how in this area, where disinformation is recognised and where there is experience of how to fight it. It's important. It is important to stress that we are talking not about creating a new institution, but about identifying one specific entity in one of the existing institutions. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U75	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U76	In parallel, consideration should be given to resisting cyber attacks. Once again, it is not conceivable that every institution alone on its own, picking on its knees, resists it. Central coordination is, of course, also important for cyber attacks, as well as for information attacks. Any fragmentation makes us more vulnerable. Secondly, we need to review our legislative basis, there is nothing to be done. Are we prepared to react quickly in the legislative context if, in these same information operations or information attacks, deepfake is used? Do we have mechanisms that allow rapid intervention? It's worth analysing. And thirdly, of course, journalistic critical literacy: the ability to monitor and determine what sources are, whether sources are reliable. All of this is of great importance. And finally, to my surprise, I have noticed that when it comes to information operations or the need to fight them, to fight in the information war, Conservatives sitting on the right side of the hall react very painfully. Why do they feel touched when we talk about an information attack from a foreign country? Why is their reaction so painful? I think it's a separate subject, but it's probably worth analysing at some point. In conclusion, I repeat what I said here a few days ago in the foreign policy debate. This war, which is being waged and whether or not it is being won or lost in our heads, where information attacks and information operations are being used as weapons long ago, and we have to take it very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U77	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U78	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Hello, good guests! Many thanks to the initiators and rapporteurs of today's debate for their excellent presentations. A lot has been said before, so I won't waste your precious time and you won't be detained for very long. I just want to mark, as a member of the Socialist Group, and also as chairman of the e-Estonian Support Group, that I have been in contact with this approach to e-Estonia during these four years in this Parliament, that we tend to talk a lot about different new e-services. Of course, it is very important that our people can offer ever better services and so on as technology develops, but quite little we have paid attention, and this is precisely what we have said about security in the broadest sense of the word. When we say that our country is operating more and more precisely because of e-solutions, we tend to forget such a small detail that what happens, for example, when electricity goes out. I've been talking to specialists who have previously been responsible for such traditional security that our radio masts and other transmitters stay on when communication is down. There must have been some big problems. In short, in such a great e-spirit, we must not forget such nuances, I think it is quite important. I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, here in the Riigikogu to play a more active role in the debate on all these issues, which Mr Andres, Keit and Mr Savisaar have also spoken about here today. Let's take a more active role, let's not just wait for the moves of executive power! With both the big picture and the different nuances, we are also able to lead things and point them in direction. It seems to me that this is also one area where we can work together across political parties without being stuck behind different worldviews and whatever else we want. So closer cooperation in the next composition! And once again, thank you for raising this crucial issue and for today's serious and meaningful presentations!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U79	There is no further wish for negotiations. The Riigikogu thanks Ilmar Raag, Helen Eenmaa-Dimitrieva and Ivo Juurvee. Thank you. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U80	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Defence League Act initiated by the member of the Riigikogu, Ants Laaneots. The rapporteur is Madis Milling, member of the National Defence Commission, who arrives before us with a strong and military posture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U81	Mr President of the sitting! I'll recreate and begin. I did not consider Mr Winter to be such a voice today. Thus, a member of the Riigikogu, Ants Laaneots, initiated the draft on 20 December 2018. The first reading of the draft was completed on 22 January 2019. The deadline for tabling amendments, which was 5 February 2019 at 5.15 p.m., did not include any amendments to the draft from outside the commission. The National Defence Committee has been involved in the procedure of the draft since the appointment of the Senior Committee of the Defence League, represented by Major General Meelis Kiili, Head of General Department of the Defence League and Lea Vaba, Head of the General Department of the General Staff of the Defence Union. On 7 February the National Defence Committee received the opinion of the Minister of the Interior, Katri Raig, which supported the draft in part. On the evening of the same day, the National Defence Committee received the opinion of the Minister of Defence Jüri Luige that the Ministry of Defence supports the objectives of the amendments described in the draft explanatory memorandum and that the draft law suitable for achieving them would be passed by law in the Riigikogu. This letter was accompanied by draft amendments drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Union, which specify and improve the draft with a view to ensuring that the implementation of this law would enable the problems that were the cause of the creation of the draft to be resolved and the objectives set to be met as best as possible. The Ministry of Defence's proposals also took into account the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior. As an interim note, I have learned this morning that the Government of the Republic also supported this draft at this session, provided that the proposals of the Ministry of Defence are taken into account. The procedure. The National Defence Commission discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 12 February, with the participation of Deputy Secretary-General Erki Kodar of Justice and Administration of the Ministry of Defence, Anu Rannaveski, Head of Defence Department, Anu Rannaveski, Head of the Defence Union Major General Meelis Kiili, Head of the General Department of the Defence Union Lea Vaba, Deputy Chancellor Raivo Küüt of Internal Security, Order and Migration Policy of the Ministry of Interior and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Further on the amendments. Detailed reasons exist in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft. The amendments proposed by the National Defence Committee are based on the proposals submitted by the Minister of Defence, Jüri Luige, including by the Ministry of Defence in its letter of 7 February. The above proposals have been amended and finalised in the National Defence Committee on the basis of the guidelines and practice of processing the draft Riigikogu. The list of amendments was drawn up by the National Defence Committee in accordance with § 102 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, according to which amendments, the author of which is the same and which are essentially related, are included in the list of amendments as a single proposal. The Committee on National Defence has tabled amendments in a new, comprehensive wording on a point-by-point basis in order to avoid a separate amendment of the individual parts of the text and of the words, which would make the list of amendments even longer. That is why the text of the draft text is largely underlined. An example is Amendment 1, which almost coincides with the wording of the first reading of the draft, but, due to the presentation of the whole amendment, it is fully underlined in the text of the draft text. As stated in the above-mentioned opinion of the Ministry of Defence, the amendments proposed by the National Defence Committee are, in substance, more precise and do not alter the main objective of the draft, and the new regulations do not differ in principle from the original draft. The Deputy Chancellor Raivo Küüt of the Ministry of the Interior, who attended the meeting of the National Defence Committee on 12 February, supported the proposals of the Ministry of Defence, which were formalised as amendments to the National Defence Committee, but acknowledges that the measures applied by the Defence League must also be reviewed within the framework of the review of national defence law. For my part, I can add that every law in the field of defence will be reviewed during the ongoing review of national defence law. Thus, the amendments proposed by the National Defence Committee express the support of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic. In short, the general principles of the draft proposed by you, which were also initiated in the draft. The Defence Forces will be given a broader opportunity to involve the Defence League in the execution of military defence tasks, such as international military cooperation and preparation for the military defence of the State. The references in the law that are already in force in the law relating to the involvement of the Defence Union will be corrected. At the same time, the social guarantees of the Defence League will be amended and, for example, it will be stipulated that instead of the previous ten unpaid holidays, the employer may receive 30 days to participate in military training, rescue, law enforcement or involvement in the task of the Defence Forces. The Defence League has the right to pay compensation for all 30 days. The funding just mentioned is from the Defence League budget. If, for example, the Defence League is involved in law enforcement or rescue tasks under the order of the Government of the Republic, the costs shall be borne by the institution involved. The Commander of the Defence Forces shall be authorised to authorise the Chief of the Defence League or the Head of the Structural Unit of the Defence Union to confirm the documentation of the wartime units being prepared. The Defence League will be preparing military units in the Defence Forces anyway and otherwise it will not have the right to confirm the documents of the other institution. As a result of the amendments, the authorisation and suspension of weapons in the Defence Union would also be brought to the same footing by the Arms Act. It is stipulated that the Defence League and the Defence Forces may use each other's infrastructure and property free of charge provided for by the State Property Act. The Defence League shall be entitled to establish a temporary surveillance area for military training which may be guarded by trained active members. To sum it up. I would ask my colleagues to support the amendments proposed by the Committee on National Defence and, consequently, the new text of the draft. As we know, the National Defence League with 26,000 members is the most important foundation of national defence. By this law, the defence allies will receive more effective social guarantees to contribute better to national defence, and by summing up the bill will qualitatively bring the activities of the Defence League to the next level, which will significantly strengthen the defence capabilities of the Estonian state. And finally. At its meeting on 12 February (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U82	Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions for the representative of the National Defence Committee? No, it's not. But the manager does. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Defence Committee Madis Milling! Why should the Chairman of the Riigikogu and the President of this House not exercise their right to interrupt the second reading of the draft on the grounds that the whole text is underlined or new? Why would I not use that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U83	Unfortunately, yes, even though I've been through psychology, I can't see into another person. But the President of the Riigikogu has the right to make such a suggestion. In that case, I have to ask whether this is a proposal from the Chairman of the Riigikogu or a proposal from the Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U84	The President shall have the right to interrupt the reading of the draft as soon as the text is new. And there's no need for guidance at all. I asked you to answer why I shouldn't do this. I wouldn't be happy to. I'm very happy about that. But also explain to the MPs why they are being deprived of their right to make changes to this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U85	The right to make changes shall not be withdrawn. As I also said, no amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline for tabling amendments outside the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U86	Now there were questions from the ambassadors. For me or for the waitress? To the waitress. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U87	Thank you. It was, of course, very interesting for you to observe this debate or your dialogue. I would ask the rapporteur this question: could it be that the commission, who is always the guardian of the draft for all drafts, has discussed this draft very thoroughly and proposed that it be submitted to the Chamber for a second reading in this form, and that when the second reading is completed, it be adopted in this way? Could that be the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U88	That's one of the reasons. In fact, there were a lot of proposals, regulations and content during the procedure, both from the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence. In the same way as the amendment of the Defence Forces Service Act, which we discussed here yesterday, when my memory does not deceive me, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence and the institutions managed by both ministries tried to find a compromise on several issues, there is also this law. Yes, all the amendments were supported by consensus in the Committee on National Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U89	Thank you, MP Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, for this question. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U90	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! When I read the explanatory memorandum for a second reading, it is clear from this that, for example, the Government of the Republic has not issued an opinion on the draft for a second reading. Perhaps we can conclude that the Government of the Republic has agreed to send this draft to second reading. Nor has any honourable member of the Riigikogu used the opportunity to table amendments if they wish. Is that true? Therefore, the statement made by the President of the honourable Riigikogu as to why members of the Riigikogu cannot table amendments is not very correct and true. As already mentioned, the Committee on National Defence has unanimously accepted all the amendments. As far as I know, there are representatives of all political parties on the Commission. Therefore, what do you think might be the reason why the President of the Riigikogu and the President of the sitting would like to interrupt the second reading now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U91	As a Commission waitress, I can answer some of your questions. The committee did not really discuss the possible reasoning of the President of the Riigikogu at its meeting. Indeed, by the time of the second reading, the Government of the Republic had not expressed its opinion, but, as I said at the beginning of my presentation, the Government of the Republic said at its meeting today and supported this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U92	Thank you. Honourable ambassadors! It is kind of comicic to start explaining how the Riigikogu works during the last week of the plenary session. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that no one has been able to table any amendments to this text here. But since the Commission reached a consensus and the Government of the Republic finally supported the draft, the second reading has been completed. Oh, it can't be. Maybe you'd like to negotiate? No, I don't. Let us then examine the amendments. There are seven of them: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh. The second reading of Bill 786 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U93	Next on our agenda is the second reading of the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Rescue Services Act and the Amendment of the Defence Forces Service Act and other Acts Act 768. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Hardi Volmer. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U94	Dear Speaker! Honourable colleagues! I'll put on special reading glasses. Overview of the draft procedure in the lead committee between first and second readings. The first reading of the above-mentioned draft took place on 16 January, including. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading at two meetings: 31 January and 12 February. At the meetings of the Commission, the Legal Adviser to the Human Resources Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, Svetlana Master, and the Deputy Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, Janne Pikma, participated in the meetings. Two amendments were tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Kalvi Tõud, Hardi Volmer, Mati Raidma, Madis Milling, Jaanus Karilaid and Toomas Paur. These are points 1 and 2 of the list of amendments. The amendments remove the restriction of the Police and Border Guard Act that police officers will not be paid a special pension in their position of employment, and in this connection amend the Police and Border Guard Act (after the PPVS). The idea of initiating these amendments comes from the Ministry of the Interior, which has analysed the subject and explained these changes in the Commission. The need to remove the restriction is due to Estonia's demographic and economic situation, because this is the time when a very large number of police officers can retire. Police services have also been affected in recent years by the failure of competitions for police officers, which has increased to 70%. According to the forecasts of the Police and Border Guard Board, 1235 police officers will retire between 2019 and 2025. One way to solve the problems described above is to abolish the ban on receiving a police pension at the same time and to continue working in the police service. At present, a police officer's pension is paid to a person who continues to work in another profession or profession, but not as a police officer while working in the police service. The representative of the PBA explained in the Commission that in 2018 a survey was carried out among all police officers, which showed that most police officers would continue their service even after retirement if they could receive a special pension. The changes also encourage the return of police officers who have left the police force to the police force, as they will be entitled to both the retirement of the years they have earned and the salary of the police officer. A representative of the Ministry of the Interior said that they did not find that this restriction was justified in the explanatory notes to the drafts. It was clarified that such a limitation could come from the Pensions Act (VAPS) of the earned years, which states that no pension will be paid under the VAPS if the pensioner continues to pursue his profession. At the same time, it was explained that the VAPS regulation differs from the regulation of special pensions in that this pension is paid because the person is no longer able to work in his/her own profession and therefore cannot be compared to the special pension of a police officer. It was also pointed out that, as one of the exceptions, police officers still have the possibility to continue working and receive VAPS at the same time. It was also pointed out, for example, that the Civil Service Act also regulates an increase of 10% to 50% in an official's national retirement pension on the basis of seniority and that the official does not have to leave the public service when he receives an increase in the pension. It was further clarified that the changes would reduce the unequal treatment of persons in this case. This is the summary content of the amendments initiated by the members of the Riigikogu. There was, of course, a debate within the Commission on these changes. Raivo Time announced that it could not support the draft without prior in-depth analysis. In his view, both pros and cons should be considered together with the various parties. He pointed out that the impact on the police organisation as a whole had not been analysed for these changes and said that this amendment would only delay the resolution of the problem and not solve it, as the existing police officers would still retire. To keep police officers in the service longer, talk about policemen's incomes and other motivations. Mr Time also pointed out that if we change the principle of the payment of a pension for a particular type of pension by paying it during the service, it may be accompanied by the expectation of other occupational pensioners to change the system of special pensions. The Commission considered that, on the basis of the principle of equal treatment, a comparison should be made between all beneficiaries of occupational pensions. Raivo Aeg also spoke about the fact that according to the law, it is not possible to receive, for example, the occupational pension of the prosecutor and to continue working as a prosecutor, but it is possible to receive a police pension and to continue working as a prosecutor. The same problem is with judges and members of the Defence Forces. Mr Time said that perhaps there should be an age limit from which no special pension and pay will be paid at the same time. Mati Raidma felt that legitimate expectations would be applied if something was taken away from someone, but this bill did not do so, and there was no reason to feel such fear. Uno Kaskpeit was of the opinion that this change would create additional internal tensions in the police and an even greater shortage of officials, while the changes would leave the so-called Cabinet Officers, while the retired patrol police officers. A representative of the Police and Border Guard Board disagreed. He pointed out that, in the case of so-called cabinet people, there is already an opportunity to establish a police pension and that they continue to work for the police under the Civil Service Act (ATS), whereas so-called "frontier people', such as patrol police, cannot continue to serve under the same law, as only officials may be subject to direct coercion. We also partly addressed the opinion of the Ministry of Justice of 12 February on amendments to the draft. Raivo Aeg thought it might be worth considering the system of seniority fees proposed by the Ministry of Justice, but the Ministry of the Interior did not support the creation of a retirement fee for one of the target groups, as it creates inequalities and costs. As a result of the discussions during the meetings, the Legal Affairs Committee took full account of Amendment 1 by the members of the Riigikogu and Amendment 2. For its part, the Committee on Legal Affairs initiated three amendments on the basis of proposals from the Ministry of the Interior and the list of amendments includes points 3 to 5. The precise reasons for any amendments are set out in the list of amendments to these amendments. Amendment 1 is tabled by the above members of the Riigikogu. The commission has taken this fully into account, there were no abstentions, and Olga Ivanova and Uno Kaskpeit were opposed to the aforementioned company. This concerns the recalculation of police officers' pensions when leaving the service. Amendment 2 is a central amendment to the draft and has also been submitted by the members of the Riigikogu mentioned above. According to this, the restriction that does not allow a pension and work at the same time in the police service is lifted. This is set out in section 1 (No 11) of the draft law. Paragraph 1 (12) of the draft law states that if a person continues to work in the military service or in the prosecutor's service, he or she will also receive a police pension in accordance with the Police and Border Guard Act. However, in the course of drafting changes, the Ministry of the Interior found that since the restriction will disappear, it does not matter where people will work in the future. They also receive a special pension that they have earned and do not need to emphasise their work in the prosecutor's office or in the military service. Paragraph 117 (10) of the Police and Border Guard Act could therefore be repealed. This amendment is also reflected in Amendment 3 of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It was therefore the decision of the commission to take part in the amendment. Eight others present again: Jaanus Karilaid, Jüri Saar, Mati Raidma, Toomas Paur, Vilja Toomas, Urve Tiidus, Toomas Vitsut and Hardi Volmer. No one opposed, there were two abstentions: Olga Ivanova and Uno Kaskpeit again. Following Amendment 2, the Committee on Legal Affairs tabled amendment No 3, which amends paragraph 1 (12) in the light of the above explanation as to why Paragraph 117 (10) of the PPVS is repealed. On the other hand, there is an amendment to § 1 (13) of the Police and Border Guard Act concerning police officers returning to the police service and this amendment relates to the date of entry into force of the Act. The Commission decided that the date of entry into force of the Act would include 1 May. As a result, a police officer who returns to police service after 1 May has the same conditions as police officers who are in police service and is entitled to both a police officer's pension and a police officer's salary. Therefore, the amendment to the Legal Affairs Committee concerns the time of entry into force of the Act and, in other respects, the committee considered Amendment 2 of the Riigikogu members. The commission decided to take this fully into account. There was a minority and it was consensual, i.e. all four were in favour: Jaanus Karilaid, Hardi Volmer, Jüri Saar and Toomas Paur. The Commission was also asked about the requirements and conditions for officials returning to service. The representative of the Ministry of Interior explained that the appointment and return of police officers would be subject to probation. Police officers are also subject to health, professional fitness and education requirements. A representative of the Police and Border Guard Board added that physical and special preparation tests are carried out every year. Jüri Saar pointed out that the change would increase the average age of police officers. He asked if the Ministry was worried about that. The representative of the Ministry of the Interior explained that the average life expectancy of Estonian people is increasing and this is also reflected in the average age of police officers. The representative of the PBGB agreed that the average age of employees was relatively high, namely 41 years. At the same time, the population is ageing and, as a result, the problems that the police have to deal with will change. Amendment 4 had been submitted to the Commission by the Ministry of the Interior. The representative of the Ministry explained that due to the abolition of special pensions for those entering the police service from 1 January 2020 and the repeal of the relevant provisions of the PPVS, the provisions on the pension insurance of the police officer remain in force for those in the service. To this end, the law amending the law on military service and other laws will be amended without entry into force and the title of the draft will change. This is then a law amending the Police and Border Guard Act, the Rescue Services Act and the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws. The Committee on Legal Affairs initiated the amendment and decided to take it into account in full, consensual terms: Jaanus Karilaid, Raivo Aeg, Jüri Saar, Mati Raidma, Toomas Paur, Vilja Toomas, Urve Tiidus, Toomas Vitsut, Hardi Volmer, Olga Ivanova, Uno Kaskpeit. Amendment 5 concluded that the law would enter into force on 1 May. The Committee on Legal Affairs initiated the amendment and decided to take full account of this consensus. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided, including at its meeting on 31 January, that the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda, including on 14 February (consensually), to propose the completion of the second reading (in full agreement) and to send it to third reading when the second one is closed, next week, 20 February, including (really in full agreement), to propose that the final vote on the draft be taken (again, everyone gladly agreed). At its meeting on 12 February, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously supported the draft decision at third reading. Now, that was a brief review of these two sessions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U95	Questions for the waitress. Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The effective functioning of the police must certainly be maintained. My question, however, is this: did the Committee on Legal Affairs also analyse the reasons why it is difficult for us to recruit young new officials for the police service in the course of the procedure for this draft? Why aren't the new ones on top, why do we have to keep the pensioners and even call them back?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U97	Thank you for your question. I have to admit that this discussion or debate in the Commission did not become so profoundly social. Probably rather because of the fact that we do not spend time, as these reasons are, unfortunately, widely known. These same reasons, we can extend them, aren't they, for example, to our teachers, educators and university teachers, the problems are similar. I may be doing some kind of analysis on the basis of personal information, but that's hardly what you need, we all know why that is. The same, pensions are part of this problem, apart from its pay, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U98	Raivo Time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U99	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You did not mention that I did, yes, at that meeting, at the debate, but did not vote, conceding that the problem needs to be resolved. In my opinion, the amendments had been made sloppyly and without analysing the effects. As you said even now, the analysis has not been carried out on what has happened to the offspring, etc. Not all wider impact assessments were reported there either; they have not been taken into account. The problem, of course, needs to be addressed, which is why I proposed to look at it a little more broadly. Since you yourself are also the initiator of the amendments, you were supposed to understand what you signed. If, so far, the idea of a special pension has been that people must have the opportunity to leave hard work earlier, because they simply cannot continue to do this work under any circumstances from a certain age limit, then now all this ideology will change. So we've been on the wrong road so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U100	Thanks for asking. Yeah, about the first part of the question, I'm really sorry, really. It was written in this thick bum, by the way, which has now been made into a short report. I have just read it, and I remember that it clearly said that you did not vote and therefore took a stand. I wouldn't say we've been on the wrong road so far. I guess that's part of the overall problem, isn't it? Basically, we're trying to put it figuratively, I don't know, put out the fire that exploded in the kitchen while we see a thick smoke coming from under the living room door. There's nothing I can do better than pass it on right now. It is a continuous process, as we like to say in such cases. It's part of this process. These measures are painful and often seem to ordinary citizens to be hurting someone's sense of justice, being unfair, etc. Some moves have to be made, as pathetic as my answer was.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U101	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! The question over and over again: special pensions. The abolition of special pensions in the form that has now been done is a mistake. This mistake needs to be corrected. You said in your report that it was also a bit more discussed in the Commission. Please tell me if there were different opinions and what the result is!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U103	Thank you, sweet Ain! You'll get it. I understand you were trying to get me out of the carpet with this. What were the differences? I've read a lot, and I've got a pile I can take out of my briefcase right now and read them out. There were quite a few of them, so...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U104	No further questions. Thank you, Hardi Volmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U105	Thank you. I'm so sorry, Ain!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U106	I'm opening negotiations. The members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate. Let us examine the table of amendments. Amendment 1, tabled by Kalvi Tõud, Hardi Volmer, Mati Raidma, Madis Milling, Jaanus Karilaid and Toomas Paur, fully accounted for. Amendment 2, tabled by the same members of the Riigikogu, incorporated in part. Amendment 3 from the Committee on Legal Affairs, of course, fully taken into account. The Fourth Committee on Legal Affairs, fully taken into account, and the Fifth Committee on Legal Affairs, fully taken into account. The second reading of Bill 768 is complete. And now, honourable Riigikogu, if you look at the clock, we have to make a procedural decision. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Isamaa Group to extend the plenary session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 19 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The working time of the plenary session of the Riigikogu has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U107	Our next item is the second reading of Act 658 amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto. The Commission's rapporteur is Jaanus Kariliid, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U108	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was indeed initiated by the Government of the Republic on 12 June 2018. The first reading took place in the large hall on 24 October 2018. No amendments were tabled in the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting proposals, 7 November of the same year. Let me remind you of a few of the most important objectives of the bill. The overall objective of the draft is to reduce the tendency to commit criminal activity and increase social security. The possibility of applying life imprisonment to persons with a previous relapsed past who have re-incarnated murder or sexual offence is also repeatedly excluded from full parole for persons who have committed sexual offences or other serious criminal offences. The victim of a serious crime shall be given the opportunity to express his opinion on the early release of the perpetrator. The aim of the amendment is to pay more attention to the rights of victims and to the liability of the perpetrator to remedy the consequences of their actions. The regulation of life imprisonment is also regulated in relation to dangerous prone criminals. Under current law, life imprisonment can only be released early after 30 years of imprisonment. The bill allows a prisoner in prison serving a life sentence to be placed in an open prison if he has been incarcerated for at least 23 years. The possibility shall be provided to release a probationary prisoner serving a life sentence if he has been removed from custody for at least 25 years. A person released prematurely from prison for life shall be subject to behavioural control in order to ensure that he or she is safely re-incorporated. The possibility of concluding an agreement with an alien on exit, accompanied by a refusal of entry, shall be established in the framework of an agreement procedure. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the preparation of the second reading at its meeting on 18 December, 29 and 31 January. In addition to the representative of the Ministry of Justice, a representative of the Police and Border Guard Board, an advocacy representative, a representative of the Public Prosecutor's Office and a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs took part in the meeting on 18 December. On 31 January, the Minister of Justice also participated. At its meeting on 29 and 31 January, the Commission decided to propose 21 amendments to the draft, which were submitted to the Committee on Legal Affairs by the Ministry of Justice. The Committee on Legal Affairs took account of all the proposals by consensus and, at its meeting on 31 January, the Commission moved the draft to second reading on the plenary agenda by 14 February 2019 with a proposal to terminate the second reading and send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed. It was decided to propose a final vote on the draft on 20 February 2019. All procedural decisions were taken by consensus by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U109	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned, as well as the explanatory memorandum states, that the Government of the Republic initiated the draft law in June and the first reading took place in October. Did anything change between June and October in principle, or was it simply a step in the organisation of the work, which then came to the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U111	Thank you, esteemed vigilante. It is fantastic in itself if the questioner himself asks and then helps the waitress answer. Yeah, that's right. It was a beautiful summer vacation, it was a beautiful summer, the sun was a great deal. The main changes were made by the Ministry of Justice, as I mentioned earlier, after the autumn session.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-14_U112	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has tabled 21 amendments to draft 658. Let's go through them. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 658. Second reading of the bill is complete. Good luck, everybody! I'll see you Monday. Closure of the sitting at 12.50 p.m.
