ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-06_U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will start the 8th working week Thursday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. There is a willingness to accept enquiries and draft laws. I don't see anyone wanting to hand them over. Then I have a very important message: right after the end of the plenary session, there will be the election of a delegation from the Interparliamentary Union (IPU) in this Chamber, all of which will be asked to take part. Now, please, let's do a sit-in check! 76 honourable members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 25.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-06_U2	There is one item on the agenda of today's Thursday session: the second reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act, the Waste Act amending the Waste Act and the Waste Act and related other laws. The rapporteur is Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-06_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Waste Act, the Waste Act Amendment Act and the Waste Act and related amendments to other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 13 May. The first reading of the bill took place on 27 May. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not submit amendments by the deadline for submitting amendments, 31 May at 10 a.m. The Commission decided to propose three amendments to the draft. The Commission discussed the preparation of the second reading on 28 May and 3 June, with representatives of the Ministry of the Environment taking part in the meeting on 3 June. The amendments to be tabled by the Commission and the further processing of the draft were discussed at the meetings. In addition, the representatives of the Ministry replied to the relevant questions raised by the members of the Commission. All amendments are of a technical nature. The question that sounded in this Chamber at first reading was also clarified, namely whether we are perhaps too busy writing directives into law when transposing directives, and maybe this could be done in a simpler way. In response to this, we were able not to prescribe whether the directive should be transposed by law or regulation. The level of regulation, i.e. whether the directive is to be transposed by law or regulation, remains up to each Member State. The exact technical solution to the transposition will depend on the impact on individuals of the rules laying down the rights and obligations arising from the Directive on the subject. In Estonian law, restrictions on fundamental rights can generally only be imposed by law. This amendment to the Waste Act complements the bans and restrictions on the placing on the market of problematic products, thus restricting the freedom to conduct a business, which is by its nature a right protected by § 31 of the Constitution. Given that the regulation regulates organisational and technical aspects of a particular subject, this is not an appropriate solution for imposing restrictions on fundamental rights. In view of the above, the Ministry considers the level of regulation to be the right level of law. The commission decided that we could do a second reading in this Chamber today. If the second reading is completed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading is 12 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-06_U4	Thank you. Questions can be asked to the rapporteur. My colleague Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-06_U5	Thank you. I understand from your review that you discussed whether constitutional rights should be restricted by regulation or by law. Didn't you discuss it so maybe you didn't restrict constitutional rights at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-06_U6	Thank you. No, we were discussing environmental issues. However, since there was a very important issue raised in this Chamber, whether we should impose these restrictions by law or regulation, we had the Ministry clarify this particular issue. And the answer came the way I read it before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-06_U7	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you. It is now also possible to open negotiations not only for the political groups, but for everyone to participate in the negotiations. I don't see that wish. Let us go to the amendments. There are three amendments to the draft law on 15 SE. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the lead committee takes full account of it, no one is protesting. The second amendment, as well as the Committee on the Environment and the lead committee, takes full account of it. The third amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. No one is protesting, so these amendments will be included in the draft law. No one proposed to interrupt either, so the second reading of the draft has been completed. Today's session of the Riigikogu is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.08 a.m.
