ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, please have a seat! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U2	Our plenary session begins today with the taking of the oath of a member of the Supreme Court, Velmar Bret. Please, Velmar Brett!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U3	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, it is now time for enquiries and referrals of draft laws. That time has passed. Requesting presence check! 70 delegates will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U5	Today's first item is the second reading of the Act amending the Law on Courts and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U6	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you the material of the second reading of the draft law amending the Courts Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft s. a on 21 January 2005. No amendments had been received by the deadline, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself decided to bring before you two amendments to the Courts Act. The first amendment relates to making the work of the Riigikogu more rational. Currently, the Riigikogu approves the appointment of a member of the Supreme Court and when the work has been done, the work has been taken care of and the member of the Supreme Court wishes to retire, then his dismissal will also take place in the Riigikogu. Such a procedure, to put it mildly, is pointless. The Constitutional Committee therefore proposes an amendment to you, the content of which is as follows: 'The members of the Supreme Court shall be dismissed from office on the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court of the Riigikogu, except in the case provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this section, when the members of the Supreme Court shall be dismissed from office on the proposal of the President of the Supreme Court of the General Court of the Supreme Court. " These two cases are dismissal due to age and voluntary resignation. There can be no such thing that colleagues of the Supreme Court would somehow want to get rid of some of their colleagues, there is no such possibility. But if a person has reached that age or wishes to leave the service of the Supreme Court of his own accord, then we should not vote on it here. A very funny or completely absurd situation would also be where we would say no, you cannot retire because we have decided here. An analogous example is, according to the Chairman of the Supreme Court, the appointment of the Deputy Chancellor of Justice-advisers who are appointed by the Riigikogu but whose dismissal the Riigikogu does not participate. This is the first amendment. The second amendment concerns the entry into force of the law. In general, the law would enter into force from 1 January 2020, because the implementation of the law requires state budget resources. However, one point of the law concerning the election of candidates for judges would enter into force in general terms, as there is no need for additional financial resources to do so. I would also like to mention that this does not go unnoticed; it is not reflected in the protocols of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Estonian Judicial Association has sent its opinion on the draft law in a letter of formal notice. Of course, they support the payment of an extra fee to the judges for on-call time and consider this to be crucial. At the same time, they also point out their differences of opinion or thinking to us that, in order to ensure the long-term continuation of the service of judges, an important step should be to restore the premium to the judges for the years of service which were abolished by the legislative amendment which entered into force on 1 July 2013. The opinion is signed by Indrek Parrest, Chairman of the Association of Judges. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, of course, has a proposal that you support our amendments. We propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped and, should this happen, we would come to the Chamber with the third reading on 20 February, and in that case the proposal is to be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U7	Thank you very much. Before that there will be a round of questions and negotiations. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I had a question that if the members of the Supreme Court retire or voluntarily resign, they would no longer have to come before the Riigikogu. You said it was reasonable, and I also support it, it makes perfect sense. Why was such a decision made at that time, whether it had any ritual significance, or whether there was a desire for obstruction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U9	I can only express an opinion, the content of which is that if an institution appoints a judge, the same institution could also dismiss him, whatever the reason. But we've progressed in life, and rationality has become an argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U10	Honourable waitress, there are no further questions for you. As this is a second reading, I will open negotiations for a debate on the draft provisions, where all those who wish to take part will be able to take part. That's not what you want. Two proposals have been put forward for draft 776. Let's go through them together. Both have been presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision is common: to take full account. The first and second amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account. The amendments to draft proposal 776 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 776. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U11	Today's second item is the first reading of Andres Metsoja, Raivo Aegi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Helir-Valdor Seederi, Priit Sibula, Aivar Koka, Sven Sesteri, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa, Maire Aunaste, Marko Pomerantsi, Mart Nuti, Valeri Korbi, Jaanus Karilaidi, Märt Sults, Inara Luigas and Tanel Talve's draft law amending the Government Act and other laws (merging the Environmental and Environmental Inspectorate). I'd like Marko Pomerants to present his speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U12	Hello again! This time I'm in a new role, I'm here as a representative of the initiators, and I'm probably not that anyone else can do it, in the context of the issue of logical choice. It's a different number, but this bill has been before us once. As the law came into force, there were two votes missing in this Chamber and one might say just have a personal assessment of that completely unreasonably. This has been the reason why these initiators decided to proceed with the establishment of the legal basis for this merger between the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate. The draft law is very simple in its content, although it contains more than 30 amendments to the law. The draft requires the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate to be restructured and merged into the Environmental Board. It is logical that this can no longer take place by 1 February 2019, as was planned with the previous draft, 1 February is already on this Friday, but the proposal is for the merger to take place by 1 April 2019. It's not an April joke. Operations related to the merger of institutions are carried out by the Ministry of the Environment. As regards the rest of the amendments to the law, the content of the amendments is that the word 'Environmental Inspectorate' in the relevant law is replaced by 'Environmental Authority', which becomes the name of that institution. Already today the institution has one head, Riho Kuppart, who is the Director General of the Environmental Board, and the substantive work takes place in a spirit of unity. As initiators, we ask for your support so that this unification process is legally properly carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U13	There are questions for the waitress. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U14	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The same proposal was not supported by the large hall of the Riigikogu because the substantive abolition of the Environmental Inspectorate was not considered a reasonable or good idea. Is this draft, which you are now proposing, in substance, still exactly the same as we have already rejected once, i.e. its content is the abolition of the Environmental Inspectorate as a separate body, or are there substantive changes compared to the draft that failed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U15	Thanks! It is not the abolition of the Environmental Inspectorate, but the merger of the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate into a joint agency where both sides have their public functions which they must perform. There have been no other changes. I have not participated in this debate, concerning the story of the arrival of this possible institution from the perspective of these leaders today, but I have not been involved, but Mr Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, will soon be in front of you with a presentation by the Committee on the Environment, and he will be able to answer what this situation is. You're actually familiar with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U16	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U17	Thank you. I remember that last time this issue was in this Chamber, a number of forest protection organisations were very critical. They considered it necessary for these organisations to be separate. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U18	Thanks! I am among the initiators of this bill, so I support the adoption of the law as it has been brought here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U19	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U20	Thank you. Honourable waitress! This claim that it is not the abolition of the Environmental Inspectorate is, of course, about the same category as that of us, today, not with progressive income tax, but with levels of income tax. In essence, the Environmental Inspectorate will disappear separately once this proposal has been approved. Let us think about the arguments or arguments against the previous debate. They were particularly in this area, that bad and evil acts against the environment are so serious that their supervision should not be clouded in any way. This addition was not supported for this reason either. My question, which I did not receive an answer to, is whether the draft you submitted is exactly the same in substance as that which failed once in this House.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U21	Thanks! He's the same, except for the dates.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U22	Peep Understood.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U23	Thank you. Good waitress! While last time the minister defended an analogous draft at first reading, as a positive element several times it remained that, if the two institutions are separate, two men and two cars will be driving in front of the house in the morning, but after the connection, it will be like two men and one car. Are there any other important arguments for this unification?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U24	Thanks! It may still be one man and one car, but this car may be in the hands of the Environmental Inspectorate's people this morning and in the hands of the permit-holders on the other side of the day. So it makes sense, together they may not have anything to do, the inspector and the permit holder. But those other arguments went through that last debate. I myself consider it to be one of the most important things that two organisations for one area and one set of objectives should not continue to argue with each other that what the legislator has thought, for example, and that pointless sending of letters and "official" communication between the two organisations should be reduced. Surely savings can also be achieved, or rather, the money saved can be used where it is most needed. It was said here whether one side or the other side or whether the Environmental Inspectorate is disappearing or not. The answer is no. Functions don't go away, workers don't go away. If resources are needed in human resources policy, they can be used more efficiently and collectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U25	Peep Understood, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U26	Thank you. Last time, when the Minister asked questions, I thought there was another interesting discussion or one that was not clear to the end. On the question of why, in these circumstances, when the term of office of the heads of both institutions was completed on 1 January, only one competition for the head of the institution was announced, the Minister was not able to answer clearly. It seemed that the failure to announce the competition of the Head of the Environmental Inspectorate was in fact illegal. Have you studied this moment? Did the Minister act illegally on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U27	Thanks! It has not been further investigated. The Minister of the Environment also assumed that the Riigikogu behaved rationally and sensibly. We didn't do it. This does not mean that the Environmental Inspectorate is currently unmanaged. The control functions are complete. No, I don't know how to see illegal here. I haven't really really dealt with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U28	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Today, the previous draft procedure was recalled and there was talk about the feasibility of using cars. You mentioned that the number of people will not change, the financial costs will not change, the communication between the agency and the inspection staff will improve. Let me get this straight. This is a fundamental change.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U30	Thanks! I was not quite precise in the sense of personality that I meant, above all, those people who, on a daily basis, either supervise or issue permits. We have already mentioned one change here: it is planned that there will be one director instead of two directors. There are also some savings planned in the area of support services, but day-to-day farmers, if I can use such a word, will mostly continue in the positions where they are today. It is also foreseen that if there are structural changes, it may happen that not all people want to continue in the workplace that is being offered to them. In this case, as usual, redundancies are foreseen and people choose another profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U31	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We were talking about competitions. You said something about the fact that the Minister of the Environment assumed that the Riigikogu would behave rationally and adopt this law. It didn't happen, and now we're at a second try. I have a rhetorical question: shouldn't this be the opposite? The rational behaviour of the minister is that he acts in the Riigikogu on the basis of the laws already adopted, not assuming that the Riigikogu does or does not do anything. I think this line is a bit of a mess. The disturbing thing is that procedures were started before the law was passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U33	Thanks! We could most likely be in a situation where we would not have such a debate today. You can approach both ways. Of course, you can wait calmly for the Riigikogu to reach its understanding and then act, but it can also be done in parallel. It makes sense that the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate cannot become a joint body until there is a legal basis for this. That is what we are now seeking as initiators of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U34	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U35	Thank you. Good waitress! I personally support the merger of the inspection and the agency. I also supported this in the last attempt in the Riigikogu, yet it failed because the government union itself fell apart and there was no unity. How do you predict whether this time the coalition will be as united as it is in the distribution of the money from the roof, or whether the opposition will again have to lend its help?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U36	Thanks! I take the Reform Party Group as an example. I have understood that these are statesmen and even women, in terms of equal treatment, and that is what I can build on. When we are talking about state reform, about what public administration should look like, and if we are looking at current practice, whether it is the National Heritage Board, the Veterinary and Food Board or the Health Board, where the functions are already connected, I think that, whether there are coalition votes, the votes of the Reform Party Group should all be back there. I assume it's elementary. If that doesn't happen, then we'll take the coalition's voices to help.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U37	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U38	Honourable waitress! I would like to take this opportunity to be the former Minister for the Environment. I have some way of knowing that there is a long history of uniting this office and this inspection. I remember quite a few ministers who've been walking around with this idea. Would you please enlighten the Riigikogu how old this idea is and why it has not been done so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U39	Thank you for your question. I don't even know the beginning, some memos were one year in 2016, but it could be even older. I've written about it in a book myself. Enn Frontland said I can't wave it, but I can quote a little. Either way, you can either not connect or connect, and both options have their own effects. But in today's context, I certainly think it would be irresponsible not to complete this process. This unification is fully in line with the development of our public sector. But usually the idea is pretty old. We're looking at the merger of the Police and Border Guard Board in 2010, isn't it, too, its prehistoric history remained unknown how far back years. Let me give you a simpler example. We are now very happy that the police have so-called short procedures: 5 minutes and 20 euros have moved from you if you have broken the law to the state budget side. When I was Minister of the Interior in 2009, it was knowing that this was going to happen right now. January 1, 2019, here we are.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U40	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U41	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! My colleague, Mr Aas, also asked whether the support of the coalition as a whole existed. When I look at the initiators of this bill, I think I see a socialist here. Perhaps you can say in concrete terms whether all three coalition parties, the Social Democrats, support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U42	Thanks! I don't have the opposite idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U43	Dear waitress, there is one more question for you. Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am convinced that this is not very good practice if the government is clearly putting pressure on Parliament and is going to act on the merger of certain agencies before Parliament has authorised it. But it seems to me that certain slack in parliamentary activities has become relatively normal during this government, which is why I cannot agree with you. But my question relates to the fact that it is a combination of two opposite functions. Some members of the Riigikogu have also expressed doubts as to whether the supervisory function can function in this system. But my question is much wider. Could certain national supervisory functions be combined as a whole, not within certain agencies, but over the agencies, so that there can be more force, so that the police should not always be used as an accompanying person?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U45	Thanks! God gave the job, he also gives speeches, Mr Kruuse, the former Minister for Rural Affairs and the Minister for Social Affairs. After all, I also mentioned the Veterinary and Food Board and the Health Board, where it has been done. I've worked in this organization as an old man. And even so ugly times have been that I myself gave out permits, I did supervision and I myself went to court to protect the interests of the state because the state had not yet developed, and with my geologic education, I won a professional lawyer in this dispute. This is the year 2019, we have made significant progress in the development of our country, and there have been many changes. In one organization, these functions can be kept separate. I repeat: the Environmental Inspectorate does not supervise the Environmental Board, but rather meets the conditions for granting permits that have been granted by the environmental authorities. So that is why this conflict is not here. Secondly, it has also been discussed whether there could be only one monitoring organisation in Estonia, the name of which would be, for example, the Police and Border Guard Board. The answer is yes, it has been discussed, and some cases in the environmental field are dealt with by the police. However, this is not often the case, as is the case with the short procedure, that it is clear whether I was driving faster or not, and that there is a known unit of fines. These situations often require very in-depth expertise in the field. We cannot expect a police force to gain competence in all complex areas. So I don't see a win coming. Indeed, there are exceptional cases in environmental inspections, the most vivid example of which could be the monitoring of spawning waters, where physical strength and special skills are also needed. According to the employees and management of the Environmental Inspectorate, cooperation has been good and the Police and Border Guard Board has given them this support in these cases. But let us take waste management, for example, and all these industry-related areas, where very extensive expertise is needed, and eventually misdemeanour proceedings or, worse, criminal proceedings come to this end.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U46	Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will also start by saying that I think this is a good bill. Too bad it didn't get 51 votes some time ago at third reading. As one of the hitchhikers myself, I noticed that rather some thought like the beauty of the game, at least it seemed to me that it was the beauty of the game so that 51 voices would not come full. I also have a question from here, having listened to today's debate. Do you confirm that this is not a draft coalition, but a draft of the members of the Riigikogu and that everyone can take part in this vote? It's like there's some sort of concern about whether there's a voice behind it. Is this vote finally open to everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U48	Thanks! We have such rules of procedure that everyone can vote even if a single member of the Riigikogu has initiated the draft. If I'd done it alone, it wouldn't have been enough for me. We still need 51 votes in the end. Everyone is welcome, your voices from every corner of the hall and from the edge and from the middle as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U49	Thank you very much for the waitress. The Chairman of the Environment Commission Rainer Vakra will make a presentation of the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U50	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour and pleasure of introducing what took place at first reading in the Committee on the Environment. In addition to what Mr Pomerants said here as the representative of the initiator of the draft, I can say that on 22 January the Commission had been invited by Riho Kuppart, Director General of the Environment Board, Olav Avarsalu, Deputy Director General of the Environmental Inspectorate, and Rainis Uiga, Adviser to the Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment. Many of the questions were analogous, which you have already asked the representative of the initiators, but there were also some questions that will certainly make it easier for members of the Riigikogu to decide in the future whether or not to support the draft. As a representative of the initiators, Andres Metsoja was on the Commission and explained why the draft was reopened. We then asked the Directors-General of the two organisations today what they thought. First of all, we asked the Director General of the newly elected Environment Board to clarify whether he felt that the merger of institutions had been accelerated. Riho Kuppart noted that Estonia has a number of experience in merging institutions, the support services of the Agency and the inspection are already consolidated, the risks are also mitigated by common information systems, most of the staff, the people of both agencies are waiting for a decision and are ready to move forward as a single institution. He also made a small comment about the police and border guard services. Accession to the Police and Border Guard Board has not been discussed, as the police already have a huge number of services and also have a significant shortage of resources, so he does not think it is a good idea to join the police. The question that, if the agencies were not united, whether Mr Kuppart would personally continue in this area or not, he replied that even if he did not join, his field of work would be wide, that the citizens should be made simpler and clearer. We also asked for an opinion from today's Head of the Environmental Inspectorate. Olav Avarsalu replied that he supported the merger decision, the most disturbing being the uncertainty as to whether or not the merger would come, which would interfere most with the organization's work. My colleague, Eev Paasmäe, asked how the responsibilities delegated to local authorities would be covered. Olav Avarsalu replied that the capacity of local authorities was very low and therefore many of the tasks that could be at local level were centralised. I'm sure they're going to be reviewed. In addition, Riho Kuppart confirmed that there are several trainings in the work programme and the involvement of municipalities is clearly one of the priorities in the future. My colleague, Meelis Mälberg, again asked whether the wish of the Environmental Inspectorate could be to join the police. Olav Avarsalu, the Head of the Environmental Inspectorate, replied that the first wish was for them to continue to be independent, as the Environmental Inspectorate was a sufficiently mature organisation. Since there is a bigger problem with supervision arrangements, many people see themselves working in a police organisation, but in the long run it does not consider it effective. At present, the resource is clearly in favour of the managing party, but less could be done with bureaucracy and permits and more real control. In his view, the merger of two organisations could contribute precisely in this area so that more resources could be channelled into real control. He also stressed that cooperation between the Environmental Inspectorate and the police was already very, very good today. Then there was the question of resources. It was about a simple mathematical operation. I remember that the last time the draft had been read with similar content, the question in the Commission was whether one plus one is three, i.e. whether it is certain that the merger of the two agencies will create synergies in terms of resources. To put it simply, the question was whether, even if we were to join the two agencies, there might still be a shortage of people and resources. The question is, in fact, in the hands of the future Riigikogu and in the decision of the future state budget, perhaps more resources would be needed in a literal sense. Olav Avarsalu replied that the interinstitutional body would certainly provide better flexibility for resources, that duplication of activities between the two institutions would disappear. Riho Kuppart added that there is also a need to make certain services smarter, as so far many processes are taking place on paper and there are also redundant processes. In addition, officials must be guaranteed an income corresponding to the wages offered on the labour market if we are to ensure that the level of service is maintained. Mr Metsoja asked me to mention the priorities and the greatest fears in the creation of a joint institution. Both of them, of course, were invited to speak, i.e. today's leaders of both occupations. Riho Kuppart, the new Head of the Environmental Board, noted that for citizens and partners, the composite agency will become a more competent partner, and the interagency will ensure more effective cross-use of resources and more efficient capacity gaps. In addition, it is possible to better understand the situation of the partner in an institution, as authorisation and supervision are side by side. There is a great fear of reducing the independence of the supervisory staff, but this will be resolved by clarifying the functions of the Deputy Director-General and will remain under his authority. Today's leader of the inspection, Avarsalu, added that the greatest risk is that the objectives will not be realised as quickly as expected, as the organisation's internal procedures will take a long time. For both institutions, merging is not as important a decision as having a clear vision of governance in the field. In reality, people and partners do not already distinguish between two authorities; they do not know what they are dealing with and which one. In addition, Riho Kuppart pointed out that the Ministry of the Environment has carried out an organizational culture study in two institutions, the results of which show that the agency and inspection are very similar. Both strengths are, for example, compliance with the rules and effectiveness, but weaker places are partnership orientation and innovation. Of course, we did not get over or around in the Committee on the Environment where the future headquarters will be located, either in Pärnu or in Tallinn. According to the original plan, the Environmental Board should remain, as it is today, in Pärnu, but the discussion in the Committee on the Environment revealed that if the Ministry of the Environment, Minister or Government would like to change this address in the future, it is not necessary to come to the Riigikogu, which is not a decision of the Riigikogu level. We also made four consensual decisions: to appoint Rainer Vakra, member of the Committee on the Environment as rapporteur, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda by today, 29 January 2019, to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 7 February at 4 a.m. We made all these decisions in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U51	Jaanus Marrand's question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U52	Thank you! Dear waitress, you discussed in the Commission that one plus one would come together in three. But how many of these risks are there that one plus one can come together at 1.5? Combining control with such a degree of legislative action - how widespread is it in other countries, and is that customary? Are they 100% compatible so there won't be a minus?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U53	Thank you. That's a very good question. I think that the lack of supervision and monitoring resources is one of the greatest concerns in Estonia's environmental field. This is actually not just the result of recent years, but the result of long years of action, that there are clear shortcomings in the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board when we look at both the level of wages and how many people from these agencies have been made redundant in terms of supervision. The heads of both offices, I repeat, both Riho Kuppart, the new Director General of the Environmental Board, and Olav Avarsalu, the Deputy Director-General of the Environmental Inspectorate, of course, claimed that they were hoping and seeing that one plus one would result in two commas of something, and in any case the situation would improve rather than deteriorate, as you predict or consider possible. They said they'd work for it. However, we also came to the position in the Commission, at least in my opinion, that we actually need more resources in the area as a whole, that just adding one and one is not enough, but that if we want to really increase the control capacity, then additional money is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U54	Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I am not going so far into the content, your report clearly said that it is reasonable and necessary to unite these two institutions. Indeed, once again, it is unpleasant that there were only 49 people in the third-reading vote last time (I say by memory), but 51 were needed. The deadline for tabling amendments is 7 February. Looking at the calendar, it's clear that the second reading can be the 13th and the third reading in the 20th. This depends very much on the chairman of the committee. As the Chair of the Economic Commission, I know that the Chair of the Committee will, however, set the agenda. I want to ask you, you're still ready to finish this, or we're doing a replacement here right now, and the actual agenda is something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U56	Thank you, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs. I have not had the honour of being in the Committee on Economic Affairs and I do not know how decisions are made there. But as I said, I think, three minutes ago, the Committee on the Environment decided all four points by consensus. If my memory is not deceived, apart from the topic of the cessation of fur farms, the Committee on the Environment has made all its decisions in a consensual manner over the last five years. I hope to continue in the same way, and I believe that we are not doing substitution activities here either, but that all the members of the Committee on the Environment will continue to make Estonia's environmental area better.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U57	Hardi Volmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U58	Honourable, can you tell me what the two institutions or occupations were once in need of, or what to call them -- they were built apart in the first place, and so they were made apart? What is this, a Soviet legacy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U59	Thank you. It would be the easiest thing to say, of course, that the Commission did not discuss this issue and, secondly, it would be possible to say, Mr Volmer, that we will send you a more precise answer by e-mail, which we will certainly be able to do. But briefly, this is, of course, a historical heritage, not a Soviet era, but a completely Estonian era. The Environmental Board also emerged as a result of the merged agencies in the last decade. So in some ways we can say that this would be a continuation of the historical process, but not a continuation of the Soviet process, but a continuation of the process during the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U60	Honourable waitress, there are no further questions for you. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a first reading, the political groups can participate. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 789. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 7 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U61	First reading of Riigikogu's decision 'Principles of state reform and good administration' draft 777. Please waitress Tanel Talve, Chairman of the Problem Committee of the Riigikogu, set up to develop developments in state reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Friends! Many people, as well as organisations, have spoken about the reform of the state how much. Thoughts and suggestions are wall-to-wall, some are very reasonable, but some are scary. It is therefore extremely important that we take a decision at parliamentary level on the fundamentals of state reform and good administration, so that it is clear to everyone: in the rush to reform the country, we must not dismantle the country, but we must prepare ourselves for a new leap of development. I am concerned about how, when it comes to the reform of the state, sometimes people try to oppose the country and the people. Let's let half the officials go, well, that may seem like a powerful solution to some people, but I don't think it's the right approach. Reducing the cost of state maintenance and administration and, in this context, the need for labour can be reduced by abandoning excessive regulation and unnecessary activities. Only then can we be sure that we will not make our country thinner where it is already thin to the last limit, nor will we unreasonably constantly blame ourselves for those people who really, truly heartily and greatly do the right and necessary work for their country. There are also concerns about the speeches calling, under the sign of state reform, for the foundations of our democratic society to be broken. I firmly believe that in reforming the country, we must continue to rely on parliamentary democracy, the rule of law, separation of powers and balance. The current composition of the Riigikogu has worked hard on the subject of state reform, first as an ambassador initiative, then as a special working group of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and now as a result of the decision of the last government coalition, for the development of developments in state reform. A number of other people have contributed: entrepreneurs, scientists, civil society leaders, politicians, international experts. We have also gathered recommendations from different organisations and received input from the development plans of village societies to the electoral programmes of political parties. Thanks to this long-term intensive and broad-based work, the draft decision on the fundamentals of the reform of the state has now been drawn up in the Riigikogu, which sets out the main principles on which the reform process should be based. We will try to formulate more concretely the most important principles of our national governance, which are not explicitly found in other laws, development plans or documents and which could keep us in the right direction. Some keywords: human-centredness, reduction of administrative burden, effective state, adaptable state organisation. The draft decision sets out the most important principles that will not demolish the Estonian state, but will help to make it even better. For a change, the legislator does not tell people what to do and how to behave, what is forbidden and what is promised, but says how we must act ourselves in this Riigikogu and how the entire public sector must behave. It is clear that society expects from us, the representatives of the people, the basic principles of good governance, on which the executive power can build concrete action plans and strategies. It is also clear that this will be a great compromise here in the Riigikogu, a broad-based agreement that I hope will continue to apply, regardless of the government coalition in power. I stress that the Riigikogu can provide basic principles, a more precise action plan and solutions remain the responsibility of the executive. It is very important that we have an even stronger debate in our society about the role and development of Parliament as well. The Riigikogu itself must also keep up with the times. Our Committee on Trouble has raised the issue at its meetings and in the course of reflection. Feedback from political groups shows that the need to increase the capacity and expertise of the Riigikogu is known in particular in order to ensure high quality parliamentary supervision and the quality of legal space, as well as to be a high level partner in dialogue with executive power. Many organisations, communities, experts, as well as many government institutions and international organisations have worked very hard on new governance models, state reform, state innovation and other issues, so that our country's government is ultimately effective and feasible and our beloved Estonia is still sustainable and successful and happy people live here. Hopefully, in our Parliament, despite the forthcoming elections, enough statesmanship will be found to bring this great work to fruition. Good friends! The development of the fundamental principles of state reform has been an excellent example of the possibility of party cooperation, the importance of which I do not tire of stressing. Many thanks to all members of my committee: Vice-Chairman Arto Aasa of the Reform Party, Külliki Kübarsep from the Free Party, Helmut Hallemaa from the Centre Party, Aivar Koka from the Fatherland and Arno Silla from EKRE. Thank you very much to my committee advisor Kaja Kuivjõe and consultant Kaie Masing and external expert Külli Taro for their excellent and soulful work! I am not exaggerating when I say that, thanks to these people, this bill is at all a matter of discussion in this Chamber today. Of course, thanks to all whose ideas and ideas about more effective and human-centred governance of our country this bill includes: Office of the Chancellor of Justice, Centre for Development Monitoring, Ministry of Finance, Strategy Bureau of the State Chancellery, Assembly of Cooperation, Praxis, Civil Society, State Reform Foundation, Local Authorities and many-many experts and scientists, the Finnish Eduskunta Committee on the Future. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft Decision has received a significant serial number 777. The adoption of this decision would also be a significant point in the work of the XIII Riigikogu for four years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U63	Krista Aru starts the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The National Reform Committee has worked, consulted with many experts and studied many analyses and studies. But can you now say whether the word 'State Reform' in the work and interpretations of the Special Committee and, for example, in the State Reform SA led by Mr Jüri Raidla, is conceptually different and what is the difference or are the very same concepts? What about the similarity and difference between this approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U65	Thank you for your question. This is a very important subject to which you are referring. Indeed, when we talk specifically about the work and activities of the State Reform Foundation, their thoughts and ideas contained quite a number of things that should be directed towards executive power. It has been the task of my committee to formulate, establish and adopt the basic principles and principles on which executive power can and could be based in the future. In this sense, the detail of the State Reform Foundation is slightly higher than what we are talking about here today in the draft decision. But as well as the ideas and ideas of many other organisations, we have taken advantage of quite a number of ideas and ideas of the National Reform Foundation. So it's all taken into account, as far as it's been possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U66	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I agree, in principle, with this problem, that we should abandon unnecessary activities and excessive administrative burdens and move in this direction, but it seems to me that such matters can be decided more specifically on the basis of the specific situation and the specific administrative unit. It is quite difficult to judge in the abstract, in the form you propose to us. I have just checked that the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act allows for other formats, such as Riigikogu statement, declaration, address. Did you consider it in committee to come up with such abstract principles in the form of another document rather than in the form of a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U68	Thank you for your question. Indeed, this form was discussed in the Commission for quite a long time, rather from the very beginning of the Commission's work. We have consulted experts and specialists in the field, but we have not found a much better form than the draft decision with which we are standing before you today. That's how it is here today. We can, of course, discuss whether one form or another would have been better, but I personally believe that it is important that these fundamental principles and principles are finally adopted by the Riigikogu, whatever the form.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U69	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U70	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! Indeed, such general principles are contained in the document, but as the heart scratches, some things could have been said in concrete terms. For example, the government sector, which is currently large in terms of the number of its employees. You're pointing out that this is the case. But this is the kind of specificity that could have been more or less achieved, the reduction either in percentage terms or in number terms. Was it in your mind, and why did you still decide to go so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U71	Thank you! Indeed, the Commission has been discussing for a very long time what level of detail we will finally come up with. Since we wanted this whole document to be one whole and all the points that are written there to be based on one level, we have achieved this result today. Of course, once again, we can discuss how detailed we need to put these things in place. It is clear that we could eventually write down very precisely the objectives, the metrics, etc. Those thoughts have crossed my mind. But since we decided that our document, however, means basic principles, directions and foundations in all eight points, we did not go so far in detail in that document on purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U72	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U73	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! The title contains a word element such as'state reform and good administration'. Those words are related to the word 'and'. It also repeats in many parts of the text. In almost all the European languages I have encountered, this is a rare way of creating compound words. It is used quite rarely in Estonian, because it is much easier for us to make compound words than in most Indo-European languages. How do you see this thing? Does state reform and good administration form one single concept, or is it simply a list of separate concepts, so that we can talk separately about state reform and, separately, about good administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U74	Thank you. A very good question again. This concept of good administration was introduced by the Commission in order to clarify what we want to say with this document at all. The state reform is spoken of as a very concrete start-and-end activity, but the document that was born as a result of the work of our committee is one that should be valid for a longer period of time, which is why this title has been specified in this way. Indeed, perhaps linguistically, you could pick on this matter a little bit, but our document has been reviewed by specialists in the field, so maybe I trust their judgment. This title could give a more precise expression to the principle that we are not dealing, for example, with a monetary reform that has a definite beginning and end, but with a long-term process and with points that should be kept in mind in every area and everywhere at all times. That's why it's called that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U75	Thank you. This text also contains a set of words such as 'fundamental principles of the Constitution'. I had the opportunity, 28 years ago, to talk about the fundamental principles of the Constitution, at least in the sense of Kelsen, which has expressed the idea that the Constitution cannot be without fundamental principles, but the trick is inside it that they will never be written into the text itself, because they are not very clearly expressed in words, but yet they do exist. Those that you have listed as fundamental principles are obviously not what Kelsen used to mean by fundamental principles. These are nice things, too. Why don't you give me an explanation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U76	George Adams, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U77	The Supreme Court has called legal clarity, legal certainty, separation of powers and balance of powers as constitutional principles. Actually, these are the basics. Why we certainly wanted to point out this point separately was precisely why our society has developed rather frightening views in the debates on state reform. Under this same label of state reform, efforts have been made to change these fundamentals according to their own interests and narrow objectives. So I very much hope that this point, in the wording that it is in here today, will contribute to the fact that no matter what kind of government coalition we have in power in the future, we will not dismantle these basic foundations, because it is not what our committee sees, neither I nor very many experts and organisations have any need, but we felt it necessary to put it out here separately and to emphasise it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U78	Mart Nutt.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In general, all societies are changing and in practice choose between two possible ways to change. One is the evolutionary path, which usually takes place in democratic societies, and the other is the revolutionary path when society is demolished and then the bodies are looked upon to see how to build a new society now. I assume this bill is based on an evolutionary path, but there is no doubt in the evolutionary path some sort of timetable has been proposed. How did the Commission envisage what time frame these tasks would be feasible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U80	Thank you. We have already talked a little about the subject that we have seen when drafting this document that this is not a process with a very specific beginning and end, but fundamental principles that we could all consider all the time in a very long time. But, of course, I am convinced that the monitoring of the implementation of this document could, among other things, be carried out by Parliament so that we constantly raise the issue during the next configurations, so as to hold it up and then watch our authorities and we ourselves in the Riigikogu comply with the basic principles that we are very much hoping to adopt here. So once again in this sense: this is not a process that ends on a very specific date, but still things that, in the long run, should always be fulfilled. But it is also clear, as you rightly mentioned, that the world is constantly changing. In this way, the principles of maintaining our country could always be under discussion so that we can respond effectively, flexibly and quickly if it is necessary. One of the great objectives of this document is that our country should be more flexible and responsive, so that as a small country we can take advantage of this competitive advantage. But today we've made ourselves a little too inflexible here. So that, among other things, is the purpose of the document.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U81	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You mentioned that this is not a very specific document and, let us say, a more precise document, but I ask: what does this decision of the Riigikogu specifically amend or improve in the practical approach and development of state reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U83	Thank you! If we look at all the points that we have written here after very long-term work, agreements and compromises, one thing must be borne in mind: this document must be seen as a whole; all these points must be valid together. If you read these points carefully and think that if, for example, you start initiating a bill or do anything in state administration and you have to follow all these eight points, then I will tell you that there will be very major changes in our lives and governance. So I very much hope that, precisely by adopting this document as a decision, we will be able to lay the foundations for quite large changes. That's right. Of course, dear colleague, no text on paper will make our leaders, our officials, our people live better or make better decisions, but at least the Riigikogu now has a set of fundamental principles on which to improve the administration and governance of our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U84	Krista Aru, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Special Committee on State Reform worked for two years; now we have here a draft decision, which is probably a summary of the work of this committee. Has the Commission finished its work? Do you see that a Commission of this kind, perhaps a slightly different kind, should continue to do so? Who will make sure that the right political culture and cultural change principles set out in the draft decision are met?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U86	Thank you! That's a good question. This issue has been discussed several times in the Commission. We have realised that very many Riigikogu formations before us have raised the need for a 'future commission', which would be a permanent commission, not a special commission or something specifically dealing with longer-view topics here in the Riigikogu. Today, this area, as we tend to have in the country in general, is very dispersed and there is no specific responsibility for it. Perhaps one solution would be to set up a future committee, which would also be a partner to the Development Monitoring Centre, whose work would then be a little more concrete and better targeted, but also to monitor the implementation of this decision more specifically here, let us say so. I believe that the next Riigikogu will be able to decide this in more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U87	Mart Nutt.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U88	One more question. During 28 years, when we have been living in free and independent Estonia again, a number of interesting proposals have been published over and over again to reorganize the Estonian state. Some of them are utopian, some of them are scary, some are really good. Not all of them have, of course, been mentioned as state reform, but there have been many ideas under the name of state reform. Is your committee based on any of these previously developed ideas of state reform or restructuring, or is it purely your own, and in this sense separate from all previous concepts?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U89	Thank you! We've gathered all kinds of information. I can say that there is no person or organisation whose opinion we would not have taken into account in this work process. It is certainly not a set of personal thoughts from our six-member committee, but a set of thoughts from a very large number of organisations, people and experts that have been put forward in the past. Of course, we must also consider that this is still a political compromise in the Riigikogu. Surely, if everyone were to start drawing up this document individually, perhaps he would be a bit of a face himself, but I myself very much appreciate the cooperation between the parties that we have achieved in this process. This has been an exceptionally positive experience for me, and I am very happy that we have at least been able to show statemanship here and indeed together very adequately and delightfully put these different ideas together here. I may conclude in the context of this response that, for example, Deputy Secretary General Raigo Uukkivi of the Ministry of Finance has written to our committee: 'Thanks again for the constructive debate in December in the Committee on State Reform. We received important topics such as optimising support services, creating strong agencies, cutting red tape, developing e-state and e-services, and we had the conviction that they were also important for the Committee on National Reform. We have examined the document on the fundamentals of the state reform put together by the Commission and we believe that this is a very valuable matter, and we hope that the great hall of the Riigikogu will also support it. Important issues, such as administrative burdens, a human-centred approach to the provision of services and efficient government administration, are well marked. Thank you for your good cooperation and we wish the current and subsequent Riigikogu formations strength and ambition in the further direction of the state reform. ' I think this is such a good summary and an example of how we have involved experts and officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U90	Please, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U91	Thank you. It would be very nice if Estonia's life and affairs would really become what it says here. At the same time, we have been stressing everywhere for very long years and saying that, for example, human-centredness and a lower administrative burden are our values, but in many areas the reality is exactly the opposite. Take, for example, the social system, which is clearly meant for people, so that it would be easier and better for them to live, but people are often like some kind of wrench in there, who are instigated. You dealt with this issue. Can you tell me what this reason is that we want one, but it turns out different? Is it unprofessional, or is there really something in this country that prevents us from doing what we think is necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U92	Thank you. I really don't know one particular reason why, but not another. Well, there's always a lot and a lot of reasons. The document that we have ahead of us today is also trying to help make things better. I have no utopian expectation that as soon as this decision has been taken in the Riigikogu, life will be completely perfect and all our services will become very human-centred. I really very, very much hope, dear colleague, that once we have adopted these fundamentals, there is some reason for us here in the Riigikogu to continue to demand and ask that you listen to whether you have taken the principles of this decision into account. The section on the implementation of the basic principles states that, for example, the impact analyses of drafts must show how these points are taken into account. Maybe it'll get people on the right track. Human-centricity is, of course, the most important thing, but I also think it is very, very important that we really do wonder if it is necessary to initiate all kinds of legislative proposals and other activities. I think the biggest problem is that we are doing a lot of pointless work, saying it in Estonian. If we were to cancel this, if we were to think about whether anything in people's lives will change from what we are going to do now, or whether we are going to do something just because there is something to do, that is, in my opinion, the fundamental thing of state reform. If you did that, life would get halfway better. But of course, it doesn't work out with just one document. I hope that thanks to this document, for example, we may be able to get the right people to lead our state life, from there it will be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U93	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I've got a little bit of a side-by-side question. Here we operated the State Reform Foundation, the major conference was, you took part in it, there were a lot of proposals, some perhaps more controversial, more controversial, some of which would like to be implemented. But now what? I have this feeling that this initiative has somehow gone dark or is going dark. Will there be another commission in the new Riigikogu and eventually come with some rather abstract level of conclusions in order to have something to do, as you said? What's gonna happen now? I'm a little scared it's gonna stay that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U95	I am pretty sure that if we accept this very long work, which we have been expected to do for a very long time, society has been waiting for the Riigikogu to finally put these foundations in place, it will be much easier to go on with more concrete activities. The executive has also said that these same points would be a great help and guidance for them, which would show where we want to go and what we want to do. How exactly can we proceed? There's a lot of options. As mentioned above, in the course of our committee's work, it has finally been proposed to set up a Committee on the Future to really discuss the challenges facing our country in the longer term, etc. After all, today we have this debate everywhere in the work of the Riigikogu, but perhaps not as specific a level as it might be. We are looking at long negotiations, for example, with the Development Monitoring Centre, which is one of our 'partners' or one of the organisations carrying out our tasks. They also do not have a very specific partner in the Riigikogu to communicate with. Perhaps there would be one way to set up this future committee, but once again, I think that these things would be left to the next or the next.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U96	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions. Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, makes a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U97	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee, because he thanked us and I, among others, for organising the work of this committee. I think that the Committee on State Reform, actually with a much longer name, was a necessary committee. Surely the development of this committee in the future could be a topic for discussion. But in this case, we are talking about the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the fundamentals of state reform and good administration, and it was well under the number 777 OE on 15 January 2019 discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. All the questions that arose in this Chamber were also discussed in the Commission. However, this was not an in-depth debate. Tanel Talve, Chairman of the State Reform Problem Committee, presented the draft decision and the story of its receipt in the Commission. Two issues arose in the Commission. I raised one myself, and it also came out of my good benchmate's question. It was whether, instead of this draft decision, there could be another and whether the reform of the state in this decision could not mean a renewal of the state. I think that reform of the country in a broad sense is certainly an endless process and will never end. Like here, Tanel replied to us in the Commission. In the same way, in the Committee on State Reform, of which I am a member, the origin of this designation was precisely the fact that it is seen here in the wider context of the reform of the state. At the same time, I agree, and also in the debate on a crucially important national issue last June, with Arto Aasa, we agreed that, in fact, state reform in a narrow sense should also have a beginning and an end. In this sense, it is perhaps a question of more executive power, in fact it must be measured firmly, more specific operational objectives must be set, and then assessed at the end of the period. In fact, it was not discussed in the Commission, but I will add it to this, and the current government has endorsed the state reform agenda, which contains four fully robust metrics that can be measured. We can discuss whether these metrics are less ambitious, but can be modified in the next action plan. The second issue, which I think was also addressed here by my good colleague Jüri Adams, was that the Committee on State Reform is a very good and positive thing, but the problem with this draft is the lack of legal and normative content. A good colleague asked whether this should not be done in another form, rather than in the form of a decision, whether or not by means of a declaration. A little ahead, but, in conclusion, I think that Mr Pomerants, the chairman of the committee, has already put an end to this issue at the very beginning of the debate. He noted that processing the fundamentals of state reform and good administration in the format of the draft decision of the Riigikogu is perhaps not the most appropriate. But the chairman of the committee felt that there was no better solution at the moment. Finally, the Commission made procedural decisions, three of them consensually (Marko Pomerants, Jüri Adams, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Tiit Terik, Igor Kravchenko and Helmut Hallemaa): send the draft to the agenda today, appoint a rapporteur before you, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and when we conclude the first reading of the draft, we propose to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 11 February 2019 at 10 a.m. By one vote against (Jüri Adams), the Commission proposes to close the first reading of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U98	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Please, Arto Aas, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U99	Good Riigikogu! There is nothing wrong with this document in itself, there are no stupid or harmful thoughts and, unfortunately, this document does not come, but as a representative of the opposition, I would certainly like more. Just by illuminating the kitchen side, I'll bring out a few nuances. This committee has been working for two years and will result in two pages. It certainly cannot be said that the result would be very prominent or that the work would have been extremely intensive. By the way, the same document was largely completed in the spring of last year, but then we decided that it wasn't exactly what we wanted, and it remained in the drawer until it was removed from the drawer right before the elections, and it was brought here before the Riigikogu to show something. In English, the saying that little latte, which was a little too little and too late. In particular, because this bill already has no practical value for the current composition of the Riigikogu, it is likely to be adopted on the last working day. This is questionable for the next Riigikogu because there is a new mandate, new people, new ideas. The new government definitely has its own program. Whether this document has any value at all at this point, I cannot say today. It is the question of this practical value that I think is the greatest deficiency, because we have been working on these committees, we have had very interesting, very many interesting meetings and many interesting performers, but the result may not necessarily be better because, as we know, the construction of the country has been on a year-long break, as Mr Ossinovski acknowledged last year. Let us look at this document and think about how it should help us in the future, or even now, to resolve some more complex issues. For example, look at these principles and ask yourself some simple questions. Is it the right or the wrong decision, according to this document, to take public-paid jobs to the land, whether it is the right or the wrong decision to cut the number of public-paid jobs? Or the simplest question from this day forward: is it the right decision or the wrong decision to merge the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board? For example, would the closure of these Road Administration points in small rural areas and the replacement of services with digital services be the right or wrong decision? According to one point, looking for efficiency and efficiency, all these service points should, of course, be closed down, if you look at another point, that the Estonian state guarantees basic services essential to people in their place of residence everywhere in Estonia, then you get the feeling that these points should be added. So I am afraid that, on the one hand, this degree of generalisation was inevitable in order for everyone to agree and we to reach something at all, on the other hand, it is such a great degree of generalisation that this document does not help us much further in practical and complex matters of state reform, because the opponents point to one point and the proponents point to another. So this document may not have a long lifespan. I think we got richer by experience again, such special committees might be made, but maybe it would be more practical to do working groups anyway. For example, as in the previous government, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs had a working group of state reformists who also developed these foundations. Perhaps it is not necessary to act on a special committee with such a long life span. The sad thing is, of course, if we look at what's going on... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U100	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U101	... In Riigikogu committees and in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu now, just before the elections, nothing has been taken into account in this document. There is no point in talking seriously about good legislative practice or deliberate decisions. In my opinion, what is currently happening on Riigikogu committees is, to say the least, anarchy. This is the feeling that after 3 March, the Flood arrives, no one cares what happens, just gets out of sight right now, and some little birds are written. After all, the committees are launching completely mysterious proposals without any impact analysis or involvement, etc. It certainly cannot be said that this document has already had any impact on this process. Or that when we talk about the need for less regulation, while the government gives us four weeks before the end of the Riigikogu's work, I don't know, six draft laws that should be dealt with quickly, several readings in one week. What is that? Real life goes absolutely in the other direction and we are here adopting the foundations of state reform with such a pathos. [[Laughing.]] The work was done and the paper was finished, but I'm afraid if we don't take these issues seriously, then real life will never change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U102	Eiki Nestor will appear on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U103	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am in favour of the Commission's work being summarised in the form of a decision. For this simple reason, who knows which side of the next Riigikogu is sitting on, but when the Riigikogu has decided, all the complaints that the previous speaker has made can be referred to and said that the Riigikogu has decided so. I would first of all like to congratulate the Commission on the fact that a consensus has finally been reached. I think this document is much better than what the foundation has offered us. This important advantage is that this document seeks to reach out to the citizen, which is not about the state itself, the state is about the citizens. I think there was the biggest mistake in this foundation document. Although many of its proposals seem to me to be excellent, they remained in the circle of the Riigikogu, the President, the Government, the municipalities and, perhaps, the law firms, but did not go beyond that. The saddest thing was that even though I thought they were preparing their document for a long time, apparently from some old experience they were misplaced, the goal and the result were conflicting. There are many examples of the Foundation's recommendations that the left-hand direction indicator should be turned on to make a right-hand turn. Sadly, they could not avoid these mistakes. There was also a desire to please. I continue to argue with a large and important opinion. In fact, when you were elected here four years ago, you noticed that the door was not closed from the outside. This has never been the case, believe me, since the membership of the VII Riigikogu, the doors have always been open. But somehow they're trying to make it look like those people who come here, they don't know anything about life, they'd be right if the door was locked. Moreover, the approach is 'income-costs', which may ultimately lead to the fact that, in a country of such size as our country, it turns out that this is the most economically sensible activity. This is one of the most stupid discussions we have in the first place. I consider it particularly necessary to congratulate point 2 of the draft decision, which mentions the separation of powers and the balance of powers, which is perfectly put in place in the Constitutional Assembly. That's as good as it gets. It works in Estonia, there is no need to change it. We cannot have an argument between Parliament and the President. In short, the President has absolutely no say in whether or not to build a border or what kind of border to build. Ultimately, if there is a dispute with Parliament, we will have the tax office working on and the state will not be put to a halt. Such foolishness is not allowed by our constitution, and these principles must continue to be upheld in the future. However, the state cannot stand still in the modern world, but must develop all the time. Here, I have to say, we have a lot to do because everyone is looking at us. To be honest, communication with other countries still bears witness to the fact that we are very long ahead of others in building our own country, a modern state. If in the future you are going to have an electronic message for the family when the child is born, that congratulations on whether this address is suitable for the new Estonian citizen, whether it is the right one to transfer family benefits to the bank account, and at the end there is the question of what is the name of the baby, 'Thank you! ' yet more, that is how the state should deal with the citizens. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U104	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U105	This certainly concerns a number of things that we have adopted theoretically, but in no way works, either the principle of legal clarity or the principle of law making. Now, if you'll excuse all former ministers for the environment and the current Minister for the Environment, I'll give you an example of the Ministry of the Environment, even though you all understand who I'm talking about. In my opinion, the most absurd things in this Chamber of Riigikogu are the ones whose title sounds something like this: 'The law amending the Law on Nature Protection (flower blooming) '. We don't need this crap in our legislation. I shall not mention who produces it here. I really like that consensus has been reached. Perhaps, by my taste, I would have hoped to hear more of the words 'civil society' and 'openness'. They are ultimately beautifully written in the explanatory memorandum, I believe that the next Parliament will build on them. Finally, thank you for the good work done by the Commission, I call on you all to adopt this document as a decision, and I note that the reform of the state is really a continuous action; it will never end. As long as there's a country, we need to update it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U106	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U107	Mr President, I would like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U108	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U109	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We need to talk here on at least two sub-topics. One is what's in front of us. We have a draft decision before us. Andres Herkel pointed out in his questions that it was not suitable for a draft decision. This is where I disagree with Lord Nestor. I believe that this should be a draft declaration or statement and should be amended on at least one issue. From what I understand, this committee has also produced a very long and high-quality report. If the existence of this report is not mentioned here, I think it is a certain... I would not call it a crime, but it is still incompetence, because it would be important to tell all journalists and politicians that please, such a report exists, read it. We have previously taken decisions in the Riigikogu, the structure of which has been roughly such that, if the Commission has drawn up a report, it will be decided to approve this report. It would be the right format for such a decision. The current text could be either a preface or a preface to the report, it would be perfect for that. But now that he's here as a draft decision, there's a whole series of questions, starting with the title. For example, it would not be a problem for me if it were a statement or a declaration on the fundamentals of good administration. I think that all of us in Estonia who talk about politics at all will find a way to understand what we mean by good administration. But what we mean by state reform, no one still knows. And there is no possibility that there will ever be an agreement on what to think about. I don't know if everyone knows where that word comes from. Just in case, I'm going to go over it from here. This word came into use before the war in the period of the Republic of Estonia when our government was led by Konstantin Päts. He wore various official names, at first he was a state elder, then a national administrator, and finally a president. During the years of his reign, many changes took place. They cannot all be regarded as state reform. However, those people who tried to point out that what Päts did to his governments was right and necessary began to call all the important changes of state order for the reform of the state, including the coming of the new constitution, but also the return of the principles of the old, tsar-time electoral law and other things. However, one known Latin proverb must be remembered: nomen est meen. It's also a prediction of the content of this thing. This period of so-called state reform in the previous Estonia was included in two principles. One was that let's not go further, but go back to the Russian regime in this case, and the other thing we know was that the result was a rather great apathy of citizens against the functioning of the Estonian state. So the introduction of this word has been bad since the beginning. I have said on several occasions that it would be a lot easier for me and probably for many others if we were to talk about the matter, but not about the reform of the state, meaning there is no clarity. Mr Winter used the expression 'a great compromise in the Riigikogu' and also claimed that there was cooperation between political parties within the committee. I think there was a really good working environment in the Commission, and the people who worked there got along well with each other. In my opinion, it cannot be concluded that there was good cooperation between the parties, but it was between these people. Is there a compromise in the Riigikogu? I will seriously think about what is then the content of this compromise. If this compromise is saying that we are not going to write Estonia a new and different constitution, then such a compromise would be fine. However, if we say that we do not make Estonia's regime a practice of direct democracy on a massive basis, for example, there does not seem to be such a compromise. Nor does there appear to be a compromise that the failing places in the current constitution should be corrected. What else could there be a compromise? For example, if we do not escape this disaster from the word of state reform, we will say that this is not the state reform that Mr Raidla is proposing with his fellows. We need to make a distinction that what we are talking about here is a state reform that brings with it the principles of good administration. In essence, this means that we make the word'state reform' an empty word, which it already is, and we are going to deal with good administration, which is well-reasoned, and it needs to be dealt with. There are four points in the preamble to the draft decision: focus on important issues, solve problems quickly, abandon unnecessary activities and remove unnecessary administrative burdens. A few words about the first two. My experience for the last four years is that the Riigikogu has not tried to solve any important problems and certainly has not tried to solve any serious problems quickly. The other two objectives are those in which there will never be a political agreement, there will never be an agreement on what activities are necessary or unnecessary or how to accurately reduce the administrative burden. My speech is coming to an end, a lot to be said about the subject, but thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-29_U110	There are no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 777. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 10 a.m. on 11 February. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. I wish you a good and busy day. I'll see you in this big hall tomorrow at 1:00. Closure of the sitting at 11.43 a.m.
