ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 5th working week Tuesday session of the first plenary session. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Let's go to the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the next set-up meetings of the support groups will be held in this Chamber. Firstly, a support group for the prevention of close relationship violence and victims, which is convened by Liina Kersna. Secondly, the unrepresented support group of the United Nations, which is convened by Peeter Ernits. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U2	We will go to today's item on the agenda. Today we have an item on the agenda: Eesti Pank's 2018 annual report. But before we go to this procedure, I will briefly introduce the procedure. First of all, Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, is a presentation that lasts up to 20 minutes. Then there are questions for the rapporteur; each member of the Riigikogu may ask the rapporteur one oral question. Subsequent negotiations, representatives of the political groups may take the floor. We will go to the item on the agenda, this is the Eesti Pank Annual Report 2018. Please waitress Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U3	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! It is a great honour for me to present the Eesti Pank Annual Report 2018. I am not tired of saying this again here before, that this event, which usually takes place in the beginning of May, is certainly one of the top events of the year for me in a professional sense. This has always been not only a reporting obligation for me, but the dialogue that arises here, your questions and my answers, this discussion is always... [[Voices from the floor.]] How? Should we raise the microphone? Okay. Is that better? [[A voice from the hall.]] I'm gonna take myself down. [[Laughing.]] It can't be done that easily. Anyway, this event has always been very pleasant. This is the last time I have to stand here in front of you. I'm sure those memories that stay are very warm. On Friday we celebrated our 100th birthday at Eesti Pank, and some of you were in our house, and there was a nice little celebration. But also 'Hello' showed for two hours what we're doing, maybe many of you saw it. So this annual report is historical for obvious reasons, and if you browse it, you will also see pictures of our past. I will talk today about the tasks of Eesti Pank, the prospects of the Estonian economy and what this means for the Estonian financial sector and the fiscal policy of the state. I start with Eesti Pank fulfilling the tasks assigned to it by the Riigikogu. In § 2 of the Eesti Pank Act, 'The purpose and tasks of the Bank of Estonia', all these things have been read out nicely, so that we do not invent anything, they are specifically provided for in the Act. In addition, § 4 talks about cooperation between Eesti Pank and the Government of the Republic and it states, among other things, that Eesti Pank advises the Government of the Republic on economic policy issues and the Government of the Republic does not make important economic policy decisions without listening to the position of Eesti Pank. So once again, when we share our views, we give advice, we are not a man from the forest or just a commentator, but you have said yourself that we could be in this role. The central bank's long-term objective could be summarised as follows: stable economic development and growth in wealth. We are talking about price stability, that inflation should not be too high or too low. We generally see that it would be better for the economy to develop in a stable and not very cyclical way. We want, of course, the financial sector as a whole to develop in a stable way so that we do not experience banking crises, that access to money is not too easy or too difficult, and that payment systems function smoothly. So stability is kind of a common denominator. This requires moderate inflation, etc. The central bank needs a high-quality economic analysis to do its job. We are happy to share our knowledge and assessments with others; we have a close relationship with the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But if the political groups are interested, if you want to invite us over and talk about the Estonian economy, then we are prepared to do so on an equal footing. We are also happy to meet all other stakeholders in Estonia, as the dialogue will hopefully benefit both parties. As the central bank of the euro area, we are a constructive partner. Estonia is not the smallest country in the euro area, but in the number of people we are the smallest central bank. One of our priorities has been to improve action, which I will talk about later. We contribute according to the possibilities, sometimes we are forced to make careful choices. The vote of Eesti Pank must be heard because we have the knowledge and experience to offer to others. About a third of our work has something to do with the joint tasks of the central banks of the euro area. The European Central Bank will see that Europe as a whole is doing well, but broadly speaking, I think that if Europe is doing well, we will do well, if Europe is doing badly, we will do badly. Experience in recent years has shown this. While our economy did not grow very quickly in 2013-2015, one of the reasons certainly was that our trading partners did not do well. In 2017, the world and Europe began to do much better, and we did better. In recent years, economic growth has started to slow down, and this is largely due to the fact that our partners again have slightly more modest growth. So European issues are also our subjects. The monetary policy area. We conduct monetary policy at Eesti Pank, such as the asset purchase programme. Within a few years, the central banks of the euro area have bought up 2.6 trillion euros of assets, while Eesti Pank has purchased around 4.2 billion euros. The money that will be received in the event of the expiry of previously purchased bonds will be bought at the same value, so that this 2.6 trillion will remain in our balance sheets and, to some extent, will stimulate the European economy for a longer time. We are talking about the global economy and the economy of the euro area. As I mentioned, we are already experiencing certain signs of cooling. Some of them are expected, in the sense that when the euro area economy grew very fast, just as all economies did in 2017, this rate was not sustainable, it had to slow down moderately. But there are certainly other factors at stake, domestic or intra-European, as well as different protectionist phenomena. There are protectionisms, there are street riots, there are irresponsible economic policies in some areas. No economy is rubber. If such decisions are made and such events occur, sooner or later this must also have some impact on economic development. The economy isn't rubber. We are now coming to the Estonian economy. Economic growth is slowing down. In 2017, it was roughly 5%, last year 4%, this year it is around 3%. In the projection, we see that it could slow down close to 2%. We still have a persistent memory of 6%, even 10%, of economic growth, but, unfortunately, given the current level of technological development and the skills of the workforce, this rate is no longer achievable. I think that we, as well as some of the other institutions that are analysing long-term potential, are keeping somewhere close to 3%. In the near future, Eesti Pank expects a moderate economic slowdown. But we're not talking about hypothermia, we're talking about the fever coming down. The growth cycle of the world economy is affecting us. Businesses are already saying that working hands are becoming increasingly difficult to find, the situation on the labour market is very tense. In this situation, it is becoming increasingly difficult to increase employment and it is likely that growth will have to become a little slower. If, for example, companies are questioned about capacity utilisation, they are still complaining that there has actually been little investment in recent years and that there is not much production capacity. So the Estonian economy is slowing down, it may operate slightly beyond its long-term capabilities. Increases in prices. We had the fastest economic growth in the euro area a year ago. Domestic and other factors, fuel price cycles, fiscal policy etc. were also at stake here. Now these fiscal impacts have decreased, and we are now seeing more inflation at 2%. Domestic price pressure is beginning to increase slightly as wage growth has to be at least shifted to service prices sooner or later. Eesti Pank gives warnings when wages increase faster than productivity. I would say that as soon as possible, but sustainable wage growth is in all our interests. Some factors support wage moderation, such as the same slowdown in economic growth, the positive balance of migration may reduce wage pressures a little, and social security reforms have brought new people to the labour market who were not there before. At the same time, raising the minimum wage in education and healthcare, rising minimum wages etc. will support labour cost growth. So some factors work in one direction, some in the other direction. Broadly speaking, wages in Estonia have increased by 6 to 7% per year over the last eight years. We look at the figures for the euro area: they may have increased by 1.5¢2% a year. This wage convergence has been very robust, from the point of view of the contractor, it is a very positive development, at least in the short term, which poses challenges for the employer when profitability is under pressure. Future investments stemming from profitability. If profitability is no longer there will be no investment. We are now going to the Estonian financial sector. In 2014, the Riigikogu gave us the mandate to be the so-called macro-prudential authority in Estonia. This means that we will see that the financial sector as a whole develops in a stable manner. We are not dealing with individual banks here, but we are systematically looking at whether the development of the sector as a whole is in balance. This was again the experience of the previous boom and crash (not only in Estonia, but in the wider world): someone in the country could play such a role that they would set some speed limits in the financial sector and either tighten them or relax them if necessary. We have developed these measures over the years. But the individual banks are dealt with by the Financial Supervision Authority or the European Central Bank. I would say that the financial position of the Estonian banking sector as a whole is good and the risks to it are small. The ability of banks to finance investments remains good, but we see certain signs of reduced competition and the reputational risk of money laundering may weaken this ability in the future. One of the sources of danger continues to be strong economic growth, which is positive in itself, but leads to certain risks, to a large extent related to the real estate and construction sectors, etc. In the future, there is one risk that has not yet materialised, it is that if wages are growing very quickly and interest rates are very low, whether borrowers or lenders could suddenly say that borrowing could take place in such a situation. If everyone's gonna do it on a massive scale, there's gonna be a loan boom and a real estate boom. I would say that, in recent years, banks have reached an optimal situation where credit growth is still positive, but is not excessive. That is why we are now seeing that bank lending does not fuel any kind of real estate bubble, and we do not see that there is anything to be done here. But we're watching these developments, so if there's a loan boom, there's something we can do. Another thing that is realising is that labour and investment financing are concentrated in the construction and real estate sectors. This sector accounts for 6 to 7% of the Estonian economy, but recently it has produced about a third of total economic growth. So it's growing much faster than the economy as a whole. We can see that labour market tensions are particularly acute there. When we are talking about the influx of foreign labour, it is more related to this sector. This sector, not only in Estonia, but also elsewhere, tends to be a little more cyclical. Again, in good times, there is nothing wrong with this, but that means that someday later this shock may come, as demand declines, the loan-paying capacity of construction and real estate companies may deteriorate, bad loans are created, workers who had gone into the construction sector a few years ago lose their jobs. That's what we've been through. Perhaps in recent years the greatest risk has been associated with the Nordic countries. We used to say that there was a real estate boom and a loan boom in Sweden and Norway, for example. Actually, everything went really well. As long as it lasts, it's okay, but it doesn't have to last forever. If real estate prices in the Nordic countries start to fall at one point, then Estonian exporters will certainly suffer from it. These producers of wooden houses, who now sell nicely to the Nordic countries, maybe they won't sell that much anymore. The second channel is that if the ratings of the Swedish banks deteriorate a little bit, the loan money could become a bit more expensive, and it will again affect the fact that our loans are becoming more expensive and some may find themselves in difficulties. The toolbox of Eesti Pank contains a number of measures to influence the behaviour of banks. Several years ago, we signalled to the banks that we did not want much more relaxed credit terms than we do today. We have reviewed these measures on a regular basis. One of last year's developments, which will certainly affect the Estonian economy and affect our work at Eesti Pank, is the entry of Lumori Bank, which means that Nordea and DNB not only joined Estonia, but they also brought all their Latvian and Lithuanian business into the legal entity of Estonia. So as from 2 January, the consolidated balance sheet of the Estonian banking sector increased by 40% to 50%. It is, in itself, very positive, nice that the headquarters came to Estonia, but it also means that the performance of the Estonian banking sector will depend more on what is happening in Latvia and Lithuania. This bank will certainly start financing itself more on a market-based basis than its predecessors. There are additional risks in every good thing. In general, banks have been sufficiently conservative. One area where they may not be there is their own risk assessment, where they use 'internal models'. Since we haven't had any real estate problems in recent years, no bad loans have arisen, they have become very bold and think that this is not a very risky business. So maybe we need to put some floor there so they don't go too low on the risk weights of their housing loans. This is what we are currently dealing with in a number of European institutions. The impact of money laundering on financial stability has been limited. Loans can be more expensive. The task of Eesti Pank is not to assess the risk of money laundering in banks. In fact, there are a number of institutions in Estonia: the government deals with legislation, the Financial Supervision Authority evaluates risk systems, the Financial Intelligence Unit plays a very important role in specific cases, and the police and prosecutor's office are also involved. So the Eesti Pank Act does not provide for this to be our area of activity, but we must assess the extent to which suspicions of money laundering undermine the functioning of the financial sector. One possible channel could be that funding for Nordic banks, parent banks, sooner or later, will become more expensive. We have seen recently that the stock prices of these banks have fallen, that the owners have certainly suffered as a result of this, but it has not yet passed on, for example, the rise in bond interest rates. So the impact on the Estonian economy has so far been small, but we must definitely monitor it. This is a lesson for Eesti Pank in the fight against money laundering. The government committee is currently working, which has made a lot of concrete proposals. In our area, for example, it is possible to amend the law on statistics in such a way that we can share more statistical data. In fact, right now, the Law on Statistics, I think, rightly, also says that we cannot share all kinds of detailed data in the same way. If people give their data to Statistics Estonia, confidentiality must be guaranteed. But it's looking for an equilibrium point again. This legislative package, which was pending during the previous Riigikogu, may have some things that still need to be thought about, but certainly there is a large part that is uncontroversial and could be approved quite quickly in order to show others that we have taken some step. I'm coming to the end of public finances. At present, it is unwise to boost economic growth by increasing government spending. We have talked before about the economic growth that we can achieve. The existing workforce, technology and skills set some limits. If you use sports analogue, you can say that each athlete has to pick the right pace. We're not saying every time you have to paddle, run or whatever. I believe Ott Street has a gas pedal and a brake, and he's using both. If only he pushed the accelerator, it would probably end badly. So sometimes you need a brake, sometimes you need a gas. The entire state budget law is built on this logic that in good times, reserves should be reserved and then spent in bad times. We see, however, that this is more of a good time than a good time two years ago. We do not think it would be wise to take out a loan at the moment. We can say that interest rates are undeniably favourable, but, unfortunately, the conditions for spending borrowed money are not always favourable. Figuratively speaking, in poor times, the same money can be used to build more miles of roads than it is now. That's something to consider. Finally, my time is running out, I'd say we had a good year. In the context of Estonia 100, we issued a lot of different coins to celebrate this anniversary. We issued 900 million euros of cash, about 750 euros per person in Estonia. There were positive developments in society. One of them is the coming of instant payments. About 80% of Estonian payments are instant payments; they move from bank to bank 24/7 in less than 10 seconds. It's a new development. The second is access to cash, especially in rural areas. We were here once five years ago, I think we talked about the possibility of innovative solutions such as the cashback system, etc. In the last year, 380 points were created, I think, in Estonia, especially in rural areas, where cash can be retrieved in some way. We have updated the system for collecting statistics. For companies that have to publish data, reporting is a burden. We're trying to keep up with time and model this system. Finally. I have been acting as Governor of Eesti Pank here for seven years. There are still many risks in the external environment. The Estonian economy is cooling, but it continues to grow rapidly. Eesti Pank has had a good year. As I said, I have always appreciated cooperation with both the Riigikogu plenary and the Committee on Monetary Affairs. From 6 June, Eesti Pank will become a new, very good President. I hope that your relationship with him and with the bank will be as pleasant, constructive and friendly as our relationship has been in the last seven years. So, power to everyone. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U4	Thank you, dear waitress. You really have questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U5	Thank you. Mr. Hansson! In my opinion, the most important function of Eesti Pank is to be a competence centre and, how can I say, to make parties uncomfortable. The government has now agreed that the second pillar of the pension will be voluntary in the future. Please tell us what Eesti Pank's analysis of this is. How does this affect the economic balance of the present, how does it affect the growth potential of the economy and how does it affect future pensions? I would ask you to consider that no compensatory mechanisms have been proposed by anyone, although in theory we can speculate on this matter. It is still a question of making the second pillar of pension voluntary and of channelling money into rapid consumption. This is the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U6	Thank you for your question. We have also spoken on this issue recently. We've said the devil is in the details. Certainly, individual, even seemingly innocent decisions or elements can have major consequences in this respect. Whatever is done in such an important area, without rushing should not be measured very carefully nine times. There are several dimensions here. One is certainly the long-term dimension of what will happen, say, in 2050, etc. We have always seen that the fact that somewhere, in addition to the national system or the first pillar, other reserves have been collected for decades, even in a tautological way, must mean that these choices will be easier in the future. We know that demography is what it is. The numbers that show where we're going are relatively easy to calculate. On the whole, there are four balancing mechanisms: either to extend the retirement age, to reduce pension rates, to increase social tax or to increase immigration. I don't think there's any other way. So people are forced to maneuver in these four dimensions and if there are reserves in one place or another, the choices are certainly easier. It was about the long term. In the short term, we are rather concerned about what we have already talked about, about economic imbalances and about the impact of the state budget. When we discuss the state budget, we usually look at a number, such as 50 million, 20 million, 100 million, already a pretty large amount, which is worth worrying about in the current budget. Now we're talking about 4 billion. We know it's not all taken out, but some part of it might be taken out. If this is happening at exactly the same time, if the economy is already at the top of the cycle for other reasons, then it could increase the same imbalances that we discussed here earlier. Then Eesti Pank may face the need to tighten up these same housing loan claims, as there is a real estate boom; then the government may have to think about a bigger budget surplus in order to balance it a little. So a lot depends on the details. That's what I'm done with right now. But certainly these sums are important and we are not commenting on all this in terms of whether this system should be more or less solidarity-based, it is not a matter for the central bank. However, since all of this directly affects the economic balance, both in the short term and in the longer term, we certainly have an interest in global macro indicators.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U7	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U8	Thank you. Mr President of Eesti Pank, first of all, thank you very much for a good overview. My question, too, concerns the second pillar and its voluntaryisation. There has always been a great deal of churning around this issue, even the claim that 2% of people put themselves in the second pillar and 4% come from the state. In fact, this 4% comes from the same person, the pensioners today. After all, it is a fact that the second pillar money is needed by the banks for their own working resources, so-called their own buffers, and there is also the interest of fund managers. It also turned out from your current answers that this is more of a financial interest than a social aspect. Is that what you thought it was originally meant to be, not meant to be so much for a human being?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U9	Thank you for your question. No, I wouldn't say that's the case. Of course, if such a system is in place, then there is also a need for administrators to manage these funds. They have emerged, and they certainly have their own interests as well, which cannot be denied. Once, several decades ago, when these things were discussed, I took part in these discussions. I would like to think that the overall aim was to ensure better well-being for future pensioners, while knowing how difficult these tasks are. In retrospect, it can always be said that there could have been more competition in certain periods, the fees were relatively high. I think that, even in recent years, legislative changes have been introduced which, to some extent, have tried to alleviate this matter, have been improved. New funds have emerged that take very low fees. So I'd like to think that the situation has improved. Certainly in a small country it is a little more difficult to create competition than in larger countries. But I see opportunities here to continue to improve these things evolutionaryly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U10	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report, you also mentioned protectionism for a moment. The new Minister for Rural Affairs has said in the media that if there was an agricultural crisis in Estonia and Europe, he believes that Estonia should have introduced certain safeguard customs duties to protect its producers. As Governor of Eesti Pank, can you imagine how this could be carried out in a European country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U12	Thank you for your question. One question is whether such a thing, if it were possible, would be practical or not. I think that maybe the central bank doesn't comment directly. But I believe that if we are now in the European Union, where customs policy is uniform, it would be hard to imagine, on a purely factual basis, that one country would somehow start to pursue an independent customs policy. It is certainly possible to support this sector through other measures, partly in Europe jointly and partly through specific measures in Estonia, but customs policy is uniform. I think that in the present situation, we might even be happy that it is united. At least we know that there will be no risk that one day one of our main trading partners, whether Finland, Sweden, Latvia or Lithuania, will decide that they will take any countermeasures. We know that those companies that export to Europe, with 500 million people on the market, can be delivered with complete certainty, knowing that, at least for their activities, there is no major change to be feared. The protectionist risk is directed outward.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U13	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U14	Thank you. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! I would like to start by thanking you for the management of Eesti Pank during your Presidency period and, of course, I would like to thank you for the performances here in the Riigikogu, they have always been thorough. But in your speech you once emphasised that your role is to be an adviser to the Estonian government. That's what I'm asking you about. How have you felt over the past year about how good a partner and listener of advice the Government of the Republic has been in shaping its economic and monetary policy? How do you assess them from your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U15	Thank you for your question. I can try, although I don't think it's my job to judge different individuals in a ten-ball system. As a bank as a whole, I think that our official communication is very multi-layered and multi-level. I'm sure we'll be in touch with the Prime Minister. We've had regular meetings with the Minister of Finance. Our colleagues have meetings on a number of topics, a regular, very busy and constructive relationship. When we measure how much we are being heard, it has certainly varied over the years in different governments. I think it has never been the case that we have been constantly approached on all issues, but sometimes there may have been moments like this, when somehow someone would have expected someone to be interested, just because we are a competence centre and we might have something technical to offer. Finally, the law does not say that the Estonian Government is obliged to act on our advice. We simply hope that they will have a genuine interest in listening to us; they can sometimes make decisions based on this, which are not in line with Eesti Pank's vision. I think that's part of the structure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U16	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U17	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for your report and for your work so far. My question concerns the recent past. During the previous boom, the Estonian state was in surplus with a budget, collecting reserves. At the same time, we saw that a neighbouring country in Latvia, whose economy was in a similar booming situation, had a small budget deficit. In general, things were fine, but yet they had to apply for financial assistance from other countries in a time of sharp recession. Shouldn't Eesti Pank be the institution that should warn you what it means to relax fiscal policy in the years of economic growth? Last year, the increase in tax revenues was nearly 9%, but if it happens that the slowdown in economic growth will be sudden, can't we also have a situation where we have to apply for financial aid from other countries? Shouldn't Eesti Pank warn against such risks in a situation where we see fiscal policy relaxing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U18	Thank you for your question. I'd like to think that, if necessary, we've warned you. Some people might want us to talk more, some might want us to say less. I think we're looking for this equilibrium point. Some would like us to say more clearly, while others say that we should rather stick to the academic style. That style question is always up. I would like to think that, at least as far as the 2017 budget is concerned, if we had very different visions, then we certainly will, if you look at the press, then you will see it, we took the floor. We're seeing the same risk. When, in good times, the running costs, in particular, start to grow quietly in one way or another, we get used to these costs and when they have to be cut in bad times, it is very painful. It is certainly positive to try to prevent all kinds of unexpected events. That is why we very much support the approach of the current state budget: rather, in good times, we can collect a little more to spend in bad times. There is another issue at the moment, the current issue. Despite the fact that we could borrow more, when companies are suffering from so much labour shortages, when the economy is already exceeding its potential, whether our loan burden is 10% or 60%, I think it will not be beneficial for businesses or, ultimately, for households if we start doing so even more in this situation. We will then only create a fall in inflation and competitiveness. I'd rather spend more in the future. I think we've given an opinion on this. With regard to the 2018 budget, we were more positive and, as a result, we spoke less. But we know from the latest data that when things seemed to be developing quite nicely on the basis of the summer forecast, things went in a different direction in the second half of the year and expenditure started to increase. If you have any interest in this, I would point out that the independent fiscal council with the help of Eesti Pank gave its opinion last month on the implementation of last year's budget. It's up on their website, this analysis has been done very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U19	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Very Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! First of all, I also commend you for your work and for your very professionalism. But the question concerns the trends in foreign investment in the Estonian economy over the last four to five years. In this respect, I also ask what has been the development of Estonia's own capital market in recent years. You can't get over or around the second pillar of your pension here again. I am a little surprised by your somewhat mild assessment of the plan to actually demolish the second pension pillar. If we take even in terms of the development of capital markets, it is undoubtedly a major disservice, just as we look at future pensions, it is also a disservice in this context. This reduction in pensions by a third is extremely difficult in the current demographic environment. Please assess these two ideas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U21	I will come to this second question at first. I think we certainly have very little progress in the capital market. The European economy is very banking-centred. Work is being carried out everywhere so that it can be a little more diverse in order to have a larger securities market, a stock market. To some extent, Estonia's smallness works against it. You can imagine that we could have a lot of liquid shares that are constantly being bought and sold, but obviously we will never get to the level of Poland or to the level of another country with 40 million inhabitants. But it is certainly possible to grow this market, it has been grown by privatising state-owned enterprises. One of the risks associated with the voluntaryisation of the second pillar is that it may in the short term give rise to very negative repercussions on stock market indices. If the indices are illiquid and if suddenly the clients of these funds say please give me the money back, then they must start to realise these assets and sell them for a certain period of time, whatever the market is at that point. If much is to be sold at the same time on the illiquid market in Estonia, it may be that stock prices are going to fall, real estate prices are going to grow at the same time, as people are going to invest their money in real estate and there is no new real estate overnight. That is why we need to be very careful about dealing with this whole issue. The latest figures in the volume of foreign investment, I must say, I do not remember now, but they have not been very high in recent years. So maybe it's a wider phenomenon. A large part of foreign investment came into the banking sector; the banks actually simply accumulated their profits. They did not send them from the country, say, back to the mother bank, but left them in Estonia. It was actually considered to be foreign investment. In recent years they have started to pay a little more dividends, which may be reflected in statistics again than the outflow of foreign investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U22	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U23	Thank you. Thank you very much for me too, Mr Hansson, your term of office was very substantial, and you were always clear. But the question is foreign workers. At least in words, the new government has promised to significantly tighten the use of labour from third countries in Estonia. How do you assess the impact of implementing such a policy on Estonian entrepreneurs and, more generally, on the Estonian economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U24	Thank you for your question. This is a very important and multifaceted issue. I think it is difficult to give one answer because foreign workers are obviously very different. If there are people with some skills that do not exist in Estonia, and this foreign labour force complements the Estonian workforce, it may mean more jobs in Estonia. There are also seasonal sectors, I don't know, the same strawberry growers or whoever. If there are no people, the whole sector will just disappear. Is that what we really want? On the other hand, I think that one can imagine situations where these people would rather compete with Estonian workers. Then there'll be problems. This is a subject where it is not worth simplifying in one direction or the other; it is very nuanced. Obviously there is no real way to do this without foreign labour, there is always a need for some skill, but I would not go to the other extreme, saying that without it it is impossible or that we necessarily have to wait for a very large amount of immigration. Perhaps it would be linked to this same cyclical and budgetary policy. We are talking about labour shortages. For example, Estonian entrepreneurs are currently being questioned. Very interesting is the European Investment Bank survey since 2017 when Estonian entrepreneurs were asked where the shoe squeezes most, which hinders the development of companies. Subject 1, 80%, labour shortages. Subject 2, 63%, uncertainty. I don't know what that means, it's one word, but in one way or another, they were complaining about insecurity. What was not complained about, it was digital infrastructure, only 20% of companies said they had problems with it. So labour shortages are now an acute problem. But let's remind you that in 2009 we lived in the Republic of Estonia then, the demographic situation was the same as today, but then we had 20% unemployment, now it's 4.4%. So in addition to this structural factor that stays forever, that we have less and less hands and we have to do something, probably more automation, etc., we have this cyclic element. I think this is the cycle again now, so let's take the very same construction sector, that part of the inflow of labour is due to the fact that our economy is simply growing very fast in some branches. If we are concerned that in bad times there will be great emigration and great immigration in good times, one of the best things the Estonian Government can do to prevent this is to pursue a responsible fiscal policy. Rather, a bit of a brake could be braked at the moment, so that businesses do not have this problem of labour shortages so big, and reserve reserves again so that, in bad times, we can boost the economy and people do not feel the need to emigrate. So, in my view, the link between public finances and the same migration issue is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U25	Thank you. Good waitress! My question concerns Estonian euro coins. It is known that the contours of the Republic of Estonia are depicted on the coins, based not on the legal eastern border, but on the temporary check line. This is contrary to both the Tartu Peace Treaty and the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the State Border Act. My question here: when could it be hoped that this error will be corrected and that Estonian euro coins will represent Estonia's only right eastern border?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U26	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U27	Thank you for your question. I thought the issue had already been decided by issuance. I haven't been watching if there's a line or another. Actually, I could look at this, but I haven't paid attention to this exact line in the last seven years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U28	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U29	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, good waitress, congratulations on the 100th birthday of Eesti Pank! I also congratulate you on having done a good job as a bank manager for seven years. My question is about responsible monetary policy. Indeed, European Member States are making efforts to balance their costs and revenues and to reduce their debt burden also in relation to GDP. Here's my question. I understand that last year's asset purchase programmes reached EUR 2,6 trillion. How do you look at this soft monetary policy? That actually means that basically you're just printing money without any cover, buying bonds, etc. Has it justified itself? How much should we get? It is certainly important whether the money print that has been produced over the years by central banks also has some significant side effects in a negative way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U30	Thank you for a very good question. That is the kind of thing that, when it comes to shaping monetary policy, you must look at first and foremost. As it is common money, common indicators will be reviewed. We do not look at the indicators of Estonia or Spain or Ireland, we look at the economic growth of the euro area, inflation in the euro area, unemployment in the euro area, etc., especially the medium-term prospects. The second thing is the mandate. The central bank has been given a mandate on price stability, which is currently defined in Europe in such a way that inflation could be slightly below 2% in the medium term. Over the decades, we became accustomed to a situation where we rather fought against high inflation and prices tended to rise, our task was to tighten requirements and keep prices low. But we can see that inflation, too low, in itself, creates some kind of risk. If prices were to fall, society would become more pessimistic, wages would start to fall, and this could change the mood so much that the outlook for the economy would be much more modest. In this situation, we are targeting this medium-term inflation of almost 2%. In recent years, for very different reasons, these counter-winds have been very strong and diverse. I am not going to list all of them, but these are global factors (globalisation, energy prices), including any national reforms, etc. This has meant that pressure has rather been downward. In a situation where the central bank has been given a very clear mandate to ensure moderately positive inflation, it was necessary to start boosting the market. I think that the final assessment of this programme will only be made by historians in the future, because we have not yet quite completed it. But in the short term we can certainly see that it affected interest rates and that it certainly affected other financial indicators. We have noted that wages have started to grow in the euro area. While wage growth was around 1.5% in the old days, it is now more like 2.5%. From here and there, you can sense that it's starting to have an impact. This has allowed this policy to be normalised to some extent. We continue to monitor and if developments are worse than we expected, if inflation is not as high as we want, then perhaps something needs to be changed. And vice versa: should inflation start to pick up suddenly, certain adjustments are also needed. Side effects. Of course, every good thing has negative side effects. For example, it may be feared that the longer interest rates remain low, the greater the risks of bubbles in the various financial markets. It is disputed, for example, that if interest rates are very low, does this encourage some governments to postpone the necessary reforms, as this will provide relief. Some think in one direction, others in another, but surely these side effects exist and we must at least be aware of them when we shape this policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U31	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U32	Thank you. Dear Ardo Hansson! 'Through history, few well-disciplined countries have been able to avoid debt crises. ' This is a quote, these words have been said by Ray Dalio, who has thoroughly investigated the causes of financial crises throughout the world. You said in your presentation that a third of Eesti Pank's work relates to the activities of European central banks. On the basis of this cooperation, how do you assess the perspective right here in Europe? Have you learned so much from previous financial crises that they will certainly be avoided in the future? One little nuance at the end: maybe you'll give a piece of monetary wisdom to a young generation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U33	Thanks for the questions. Are you sure you can avoid it? I don't think we can avoid it. Indeed, sooner or later, we will have the same situation ten years ago. We always try to observe, react, etc., but the world has become complicated enough. If one time the crisis comes from a one-stop shop, the last time it started from a financial company, then the next time it might come from somewhere else. If we look at the Estonian economy 12 years ago, we can see that the real estate market and the credit market were out of balance, now we can see that balancing outside is rather a labour market. I think everyone is trying to learn from the previous crisis. As far as national action is concerned, I have already talked about the same macro-prudential measures. We have realised that 12 years ago we did not have enough measures to resist when banks started to grow loan volumes very quickly and speed up this cycle. Others have come to the same conclusions in Europe. We've created this toolbox for ourselves now, and we think we're better prepared now. I think it has been felt in Europe and in the rest of the world that banks must have much more capital than they had in the past. These requirements have been tightened up, liquidity requirements have been tightened up and all kinds of support funds, structures have been set up to form a safety net so that this does not happen again. But some kind of 100% guarantee to give, I think, is never possible. What advice do young people have to offer? We don't usually give advice to individual citizens. But I would say that in all monetary matters, you could maintain a rather moderate degree of prudence, thinking more about the existence of buffers and the ability to survive worse times in your family's budget. We know that sooner or later some kind of setback will come from somewhere, and I think that both the state and citizens will be good if, at least as far as possible, some reserves have been collected.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U34	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U35	Thank you. Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! My question concerns pension funds. How do scandals in Swedbank and the fall in shares affect pension funds there, both in the near future and in the long term? Also, if the second pension pillar becomes voluntary, is it foreseen that those shares that already exist in pension funds will have a fall in value, not just in Swedbank's value?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U36	Thanks for the questions. I think I answered your second question to some extent. If there really should be a massive withdrawal of money and if pension funds have invested abroad, it will be one drop in the sea, it will not have a major impact. If they have invested in Estonia, then given our relatively illiquid shares or bonds now, withdrawal of money may at least temporarily lower these prices. How are money laundering scandals affected? As I said, so far they have not influenced bond interest rates, but they have certainly influenced stock prices. If, for example, the fund had shares in these same banks, they have certainly suffered as a result, and future pensioners are at least poorer in the short term because they happened to own these shares. In all these areas, whether banking, insurance or pension funds, we would like some reasonable level of competition to be maintained. There would certainly be an opportunity to increase competition in these areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U37	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U38	Thank you, manager. Good Governor of Eesti Pank, first of all thanks for the work done in seven years! That was a very good job you did. But you said in your report that if Estonia's economic growth is around 3%, the state should not further stimulate the economy. If we move with 3% growth, we will hardly catch up with the rest of the developed Europe. If we pick this pace, we probably won't get that chance. When do you think this will be the right moment for the Estonian state to take out a loan? We know that our country's loan burden is 7 to 8%, the next European country has 21 to 23%, the European Union average is 80%, the neighbouring Finland has 100%. Let's not talk about Japan, Canada, the United States. When do you think it's the right time to take out a loan? Taking loans to make investments is, in my opinion, also economically right. If we had taken out a loan during the previous economic crisis in 2008-2009 and built the road to Tallinn, for example, then today it would be as if the money had been free of charge, and the inhabitants of South Estonia would also be happy. When would you take the loan? When do you suggest the state take out a loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U39	Thank you for your question. We certainly recommend doing so when it is more of a bad time. I remember 12 years ago, when it was as if there was a reason to borrow, but when you went to the credit market, it was said that the interest rate on the loan was 10%. I think it scared the shit out of some people. At a time when confidence in a country or economy has been seriously damaged, interest rates may go too high. But on the whole, I'd say now is more of a time to collect buffers. This is also somewhat related to the same euro area central banks' asset purchase programme. Sometimes it has been said that if money is so cheap, governments could borrow more. But let us see what the governments of the euro area have done. While the central bank has purchased securities on the market, the euro area countries as a whole have tightened their fiscal policies. They have not done so to use this window to stimulate them because they did not really need it so much. Those countries that were able to use it developed very well, and those countries that needed this incentive had borrowed themselves. Of course, if we only look at the level that Estonia has 8 to 9%, in Latvia and Lithuania 40%, somewhere else 60%, then we could say that we would take out a loan. But the other thing is the absorption capacity of the economy and the cyclical position I mentioned earlier. If, in a situation where companies are really complaining a great deal about labour shortages and implementation is already very high, for example, we are trying to start implementing very large projects, I think that sooner or later we will arrive at this very issue of migrant labour, because just in the short term, such a need arises. It would be a pleasure if the Estonians came back from elsewhere, but I think it will definitely be an evolutionary process. So if I was going to Tallinn on the Tartu highway and I had a Ferrari, the tank was full of fuel, I could drive 200, but you say I can only drive 110, then I'd ask you how. This 'how so' is because we want to avoid accidents and if someone goes too fast, no matter what power, it's dangerous. It may also be that if you push too much of the accelerator, no matter what the loan burden is, the economy will take time to absorb it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U40	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U41	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you very much for your long work and your good work. But the subject continues: we are a model of such a masochistic policy in the European Union and also more broadly. We have the same 8% lowest state loan. Your story was here so I could borrow it, but I really couldn't. But if we were to borrow three billion, we would have a loan burden of around 20% and we would still be a superpattern of the European Union. Right now, we're a red lantern with our chastity and masochism. What would happen if we took that three billion? Does your prognosis suggest that we open the gates in front of the large numbers of foreign workers? Or is the sky collapsing? Estonia is the only one who has pursued such a Masochistic policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U42	Thank you for your question. I think looking back, someone might say we could have taken more credit. I would remind you that the former Prime Minister of Latvia, the current Vice-President of the European Commission, Valdis Dombrovskis, once visited this conference in Tallinn at Lennart Meri. And his view was different: he said that you have a 10% loan from GDP, we have 40%, but I don't see what we have for this additional 30%, especially as we have received. Are we richer now? It is certainly a matter of finding a balance. I don't think it's worth doing masochistic politics. But right now I'd say no matter how we got to that 10%, if we're going to try to grow it vigorously, the mirror image of taking this loan is the budget deficit. If you're talking about 3 billion, you're talking about a pretty big part of GDP. Yes, this amount may be scattered, but we have a situation where the economy is already working beyond its capabilities, where we simply do not have enough machinery or equipment or personnel to take. If, at a time like this, this loan money is going to be placed on the market, I think it will simply create imbalances. I think that when we talk about roads, we will probably be forced to build them with the help of foreign companies. Maybe this is also the solution, but in any case, this imbalance will definitely be greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U43	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm asking about another area. Lately, many talk about bitcoins and their impact on the Estonian economy in the future. Maybe this effect is negative, maybe positive. How does Eesti Pank even value this bitcoin settlement? And is Eesti Pank able to manage, control and regulate this area to some extent, so that it does not create extremely negative prospects in our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U45	Thank you for your question. I have personally been rather concerned and skeptical about this whole development. I have also said this quite clearly in various forums. This is an area which is rather associated with high risks, as it is a very little regulated area. Does this now mean a risk to Estonia's financial stability? I wouldn't say that. But from the point of view of investor protection, when ordinary citizens start investing in such extremely speculative and suspicious assets, that is certainly a problem. I know that I think last week the Ministry of Finance issued a new draft aimed at starting to regulate this area a little bit more. It's been working for a long time, and I think it's a very grateful undertaking. Somehow, many of the providers of this service received some kind of certificate from the Estonian Financial Intelligence Unit with little effort, with the name of an Estonian authority on it, and they were able to advertise with it. This may have led some investors to believe that this activity was regulated and supervised. Actually, it's not guarded at all. I think it's been a small volume so far. Both Estonian institutions and others may have thought that as long as it does not infiltrate much, until only professional investors place their money there and perhaps lose it, it is not a big problem. But if it starts to infiltrate society more widely, if ordinary citizens start speculating and eventually lose their money in the future, then it will become more of an investor or consumer protection problem. There are certainly investors in this area, too, but there is generally a great deal of this kind of borderline, if not even suspicious business.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U46	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Talking about simple things is affordable for many. Just talking about complicated things requires professionalism and thank you very much for being able to tell the public about banking in a simple and clear way! I'd like to open up your desk drawer or your table top a little bit. You mentioned the work done, you talked about the challenges that were. I would like to ask you what challenges you think the euro area will face in the next seven years. What are the essential positions for Estonia in the context of services? You mentioned instant payments here, and actually cash withdrawals. What's left to work? What is important to you and what would you put to our heart again in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U48	Thank you. I think that from the point of view of the central bank, the normalisation of monetary policy in the future is certainly important. These non-traditional measures, in which the whole package was very robust and stimulated through very different channels, sooner or later it will have to go back quietly and we will have to normalise it. To some extent, it can be a little harder than this entry. At first, good news comes when you relax politics. After that, when it comes to tightening up, the choices are a little more complicated. I know this is going to be a process for years, but it is important to carry it out collectively successfully. I think that in other areas Europe is currently working on a number of relatively technical issues relating to the Capital Markets Union, deposit insurance, etc. Continued work is needed to find balance points there. In some countries more people want to deal with others together, in some countries they want to put more emphasis on personal responsibility. I think that, at least in recent years, Estonia has rather been in this group, who has emphasised more that the country should, above all, have things in order. Therefore, we take joint responsibility, perhaps a little more cautiously. The development of capital markets etc. is certainly important within Estonia. I also think that, in general, maintaining the country's correct monetary policy is a constant challenge for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U49	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U50	Dear waitress, I'm afraid I can't join this lovely chorus of gratitude that came upon your reign. This is for the simple reason that your reign will remain in the global money laundering scandal. This is where the EUR 200 billion went through, I repeat: EUR 200 billion! And probably more. Today Estonia is the land of the psychic. A couple of days of fantastic research is enough to take down the minister. Everyone knows what happened on little Viru Street in Rakvere. All Estonian bodies led by Jürgen Ligi and the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Authority, as well as everyone else failed in the construction of this wall of defence. Everyone will know in two days what happened in Rakvere on Viru Street in Karin Kuusik's head. You have a whole block of officials, but you don't even get clues, you don't know anything. You don't know what's happening next to you. How could all this happen, and how can we avoid it in the future? We have really ruined our reputation with this money laundering scandal. In your report, you slipped over the subject very superficially.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U51	Thank you for your question. I would be happy to come back to this subject. I mentioned, firstly, the national division of labour both in Estonia and elsewhere. It is dealt with by a number of institutions, starting with ministries. And the Financial Supervision Authority must, to some extent, ensure the certification of these systems. I would say that the Financial Supervision Authority is, to some extent, if we want to bring an analogy, a cross product of the DMV and the roadworthiness test. He needs to see if people are good, he needs to see if the systems in general meet certain requirements. And the Financial Intelligence Unit has to deal with a few cases already. The Financial Supervision Authority does not deal with individual cases. And lastly, I call the police and the prosecutor's office, who have shared responsibility in this area. If we look back, I'm sure we'll see some lessons. In hindsight, it is still possible to say that you could have done this or the other. We know what to do now. The Code has also been strengthened in the meantime, and some things can be better done here and there. I would say so much that I have seen at least the Financial Supervision Authority, not directly from the inside, but sitting in the Financial Supervision Authority Council. I can tell you that this topic appeared on the radar screen quite a few years ago. It wasn't that nothing was done for a long time, and then suddenly it started to be done. I think it has been communicated perhaps in the last 10 or 12 years: how information was exchanged that was done. I would say about our Financial Supervision Authority that they have certainly been among the best in the sense that the same Danske bank business was shut down in 2015. We're not talking about the present, we're talking about the past. In fact, without the activities of the Financial Supervision Authority, this business might not be closed. I don't think they didn't have all the powers, but by using the existing powers, the business was finally shut down several years ago. Another example is the same example of Versobank. I think our Financial Supervision Authority was in a close dialogue with the European Central Bank for almost a year in order to convince them to withdraw this licence. In fact, it was a bank that was solvent and had money laundering problems. I don't see the job of the FIU, the police and the prosecutor's office, and I don't want to make any assessment of it. But seeing what I see in the Financial Supervision Authority, I can say afterwards that one thing or another could certainly have been done differently, but they have been very committed and since 2014 this strategy has been very effective. I think that we have now reached a situation in Estonian society where entrepreneurs complain exactly the opposite: they can no longer do business, because the bureaucracy and any control that has fallen on them because of this issue has already become completely impossible. Some people already close their store and say they can't do business under these conditions. On the one hand, I very much understand the banks, they are the ones who will eventually have to pay those fines, so they must also be in the role of the police. But if we take the same analogy between the DMV and the roadworthiness test, then in fact, the one who has to catch the individual sinners at last is still a police officer. Neither the DMV nor the tech team can catch them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U52	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U53	Thank you. Dear Ardo! I've been lucky to work with you for a while, and I can only share all the positive assessments you've been given here. But I also have a question. Now that you're already at the end of your term of office, maybe a little more relaxed, not just to curse something, but to see if there's anything in Eesti Pank that you would change? In its structure, structure, organization? Is it the same Financial Supervision Authority that could be part of Eesti Pank? Could the statistics you produce be less duplicated at national level? Jne. And since there's only one question you can ask here, I'm going to ask you two steps. What are you going to do now that you leave Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U54	Okay! Well, I can't answer another question or that secret question yet. Some balls are in the air, but I'll let you know if anything changes. But thank you very much for the question. It is always possible to do things better, but first, one thing: the same efficiency. I have already mentioned that we have reduced the share of our costs in the Estonian economy over the last seven years. The operational costs of our budget as a share of Estonia's GDP have decreased by about 20%. If we had increased our costs as quickly as the state budget as it was, we would have spent about 6 million more than they are each year. We have not put it on a big watch, but we have, let us say, acted in the spirit of state reform and made our structures much more effective and quiet. So I wouldn't want to take on any more tasks. In the field of statistics, I do not see much duplication, as there are only two institutions in Estonia that compile these official statistics: Statistics Estonia and Eesti Pank. And we can share the territory very nicely. Where should the Financial Supervision Authority be ideally located? Well, there are historical factors at stake here. Some countries organise it the same way, some organise it differently. Each option has its own plus or minuses. I would not like to comment on this subject very briefly at the moment. But it's always possible to face such a thing. If we think that there are any problems, it is somewhat difficult to measure this activity. However, one criterion is certainly whether we have had any crises in the banking sector. In fact, an analysis by the European Central Bank showed that there are only four countries where the taxpayer did not have to pay any cents in relation to 2008. It's been a year since the crisis. And these were Finland, Slovakia, Malta and Estonia, as far as I know, where the taxpayer did not lose a penny. If we believe that effective supervision is behind this, which prevented such problems, then it is certainly a very important benefit that must be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U55	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you too, Mr President of the Bank of Estonia, for both the presentation and the work done. My question is very short. How do you feel about borrowing for the purpose of developing the state's defence capabilities? It is no secret that we now have quite large power gaps which, in the current security situation, may prove dangerous to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U57	Thank you for your question. I think that the issues on which money is spent and how this area is financed should be dealt with separately. One issue is what the Estonian state spends its money on: whether we would rather spend our money on national defence, on roads, on education or on anything. The central bank has no position on this issue. This is a very clearly political issue and it must be resolved in this Chamber. The second question is, if certain costs are necessary, how to cover them. It's a technical question. And when you think about it, you have to look again at whether it is in line with the country's balanced development.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U58	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U59	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, want to join those who thank Ardo Hansson for both the work he has done and the review. My question relates to Brexit. Eesti Pank certainly has analyses of how this could affect the Estonian economy. And Brexit has different scenarios how harder Brexi and gentler Brexi could affect us?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U60	Thank you for your question. This has indeed been tried by all kinds of authorities to understand and this forecasting is a very big challenge, because there are many options at every moment. Very harsh or radical variants may occur and less severe variants may occur. And the probabilities change every week, so to quantify in this sense and say that we have one scenario, and we know that when it starts, then, I don't know, economic growth slows down like this, and so much, actually, it's very difficult to predict one or the other number. As far as Estonia is concerned, we know that direct links are not very close. Our trade with the United Kingdom is not great; we do not have much mutual investment. Our financial sector, too, is not particularly involved in the UK economy. What could threaten us? There are two danger channels. One is the indirect channel: our closest trading partners, on whom we really depend, such as Finland and Sweden, are much more dependent on the UK economy. Another thing that must be mentioned is the outflow of the population. If we compare with our southern neighbours, they actually have very large communities in the UK. The money they send back is very important for the Latvian and Lithuanian economies. We do not have this topic on the agenda. And another thing that might start to affect is more general uncertainty. If there is such instability in Europe, where investor confidence, be it in Estonia or elsewhere, decreases, then they will simply delay investments, delay their purchases, and this could have a wider impact on the euro area economy. Let us take these same protectionist measures. We often do not think that in the old days, when one thing was produced from the end to the end in one country, it was not very difficult. But today, when a very large proportion of production takes place in the production chains, somewhere a small part is produced, processed, shipped to a ship, shipped somewhere else, it is that if this chain is suddenly cut, the consequences may be very unexpected. For example, there are 800000 companies in the United Kingdom whose drivers have never completed a customs declaration in their lives; they are not accustomed to it; their entire business has been within the European Union. And one day they'll all have to fill out some paperwork, phytosanitary checks at the border, all kinds of transit requirements, and everything else. Such relatively small things can really have a very significant impact on the economy. So such a sharp cut-off of the chain can have very unexpected consequences, regardless of how it will work in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U61	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U62	Thank you. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Thank you very much for your seven-year work and today's presentation. Your term of office began at the top of the debt crisis in the euro area. How do you assess the measures used at the time as hindsight? What did they do, and was there anything that didn't work? And are the restrictions imposed in the meantime in the interests of stability and growth sufficient, so that we do not have to resolve this crisis again in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U63	Thank you for your question. I think that there are certainly not enough measures in the sense that we could also demand even more from the banks. The safest thing would be if we charged banks with very large capital volumes, buffers, so that under no circumstances would there be a crisis. But there would also be negative consequences. There is always a need to find a balance point. There is no need to aim for zero tolerance, so it is ensured that there will never be a crisis. There is no need to be so risky that the risk is 100% avoided. Let's try to keep the risk to a moderate level somehow. Some have tried to assess these developments ex post. However, we do not know how much, during the next crisis, the various mechanisms that we have created in the meantime, all kinds of insurance and support systems will help us. We'll see. But there is a measure that, for example, the Americans used a little more forcefully. They sanitized the banking system very early, acted forcefully, demanded additional capital, etc. I think that in Europe, in the early years of the crisis, the American cycle is a little ahead of ours, and they had this recovery a little faster. In retrospect, it can be said that the entire banking sector could have been strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U64	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Governor of Eesti Pank, for a meaningful presentation and a thorough answer to questions from the floor. My question concerns banks operating in Estonia, whose parent banks are in the Nordic countries. If we compare pension funds today, we were talking about the second pillar of pension, we will see that in the Nordic countries their productivity and profitability are higher. What do you think is the reason for this? Why is there a difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U66	Thank you for your question. I have not specifically studied this subject myself, but I remember that when this topic was raised, some explanations were given. One reason certainly is that there are different volumes. If you have certain fixed costs, they're a little bit higher than average for a small system. Maybe it'll affect the fees. The second reason is certainly that the conditions laid down are different: there may be fewer restrictions in one country and it is therefore possible to invest a little more aggressively. In another country, the level of confidence has been conservative, but its price has been low. And perhaps competition differences play their role: in some countries, this competition is greater. However, nominal returns must also be compared. Sometimes it has been said that we compare, I don't know, real figures in Estonia and Sweden, but in fact, all funds have equal investment opportunities. So we have to compare nominal rates of return in different countries. But if we were to start to dissect exactly where these differences have come from, I'd be indebted to the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U67	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is not directly about finance, but I am very interested in this subject. You said that Eesti Pank's task is to be an advisor to the government and to carry out analyses. The Ministry of Finance will do the same, at least in part. Here's my question. What is Eesti Pank's cooperation with the Ministry of Finance? If we think about Estonia's future, about developing Estonia, will you cooperate? Are you making consensual decisions, are you designing proposals for the government with the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U69	Thank you for your question. I think that in some areas we have such a shared responsibility. But broadly speaking, responsibility is clearly shared. At the same time, we have a joint committee to discuss common financial sector issues with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Eesti Pank and the Financial Supervision Authority. The three of us are discussing these things. Finally, some decision must be prepared by Eesti Pank or the Financial Supervision Authority or the Ministry of Finance, to whom the ultimate responsibility falls, but many things are discussed together, are consulted. I would say that this kind of professional communication is very close, very constructive, and through many years. These are often very technical issues. So I don't blame anyone, I think relationships are constructive. My relations with the various ministers have always been very constructive. I know that there are central bankers who meet every week with the Minister of Finance of their country, and there are also those who meet once a year. Sometimes people only meet when they meet in Brussels somewhere. There are different practices in the world as to how close such cooperation is. But I am very pleased with the cooperation with the various finance ministers and the entire Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U70	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U71	Thank you. Dear Ardo Hansson! Indeed, we have had very constructive cooperation with you both when we were in the government and when we were in opposition. Thanks for that. And I wish you every success in responding to the following challenges. But your term of office will remain such a very large-scale European Central Bank bond purchase programme. At the same time, I know that you yourself have been more careful about Estonia's government bonds throughout your term of office, and we do not have any government bonds. You were able to buy government bonds, but not Estonian government bonds. And now I ask you: what is your experience, what do you think of the other euro-zone countries that have had government bonds? Do you see anything positive about the country having bonds? In what case could Estonia consider this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U72	Thank you. It has been said that Eesti Pank will say one thing in Estonia and then we will go to Frankfurt and talk about another. Firstly, monetary policy and fiscal policy are different things. The central bank does not buy money, nor does it go to the government, nor does it give directly money to the government, but we go to the markets and buy bonds from bond holders. And, as I mentioned, during this period, when the central banks have bought more than two trillion government bonds, the governments of the euro area have tightened their fiscal policies rather than relaxed them. The idea has not been to give the governments money to start spending it, but rather to get it into the private sector and that some company or household, which would otherwise not have consumed or invested, would start to consume. This difference has also been that the cyclical position of the economy has been different. We have suggested one thing in Estonia, for example, because we were already in a strong cycle phase and we needed to press the brake a little bit. However, when we looked at the indicators of the euro area economy as a whole, these indicators were weak and needed to be encouraged. So you have to look at the details, they have a certain consistency. Everything has its pros and cons. I think that, if the bond market has already emerged, we talked about the emergence of capital markets before, wouldn't we, if these bonds exist and people can invest in them, it is positive in itself, broadening the possibilities of financing. So if the government finally decides that it needs money, then the bond instrument is not a bad thing. But right now, I think one way is to just issue these bonds in some way, not to spend it, but to put it in a bank somewhere. But there's a price again. We get less money on this deposit, we pay more to produce these bonds. However, this can in principle be done. So everything has its pros and cons. But I come back to its short-term digestive capacity in a situation where the economy is already working on full tours. Indeed, unemployment in Estonia is 4.4%, very low according to all kinds of historical indicators. Wage growth is close to 9%. If we look at different indicators and look for imbalances, there are very few of them, or rather I think that there are almost none, which have reached the level where it was in 2005 or 2006, in the previous booming period. But one indicator is already higher, and this is the flow rate of the frame. In Estonia, eight per-quarters of employees probably change their jobs. And again, it has its pros and cons. Perhaps from the contractor's point of view, this is very nice: you can courageously leave your job, knowing that not everyone will, but many will immediately find a new and better job. And maybe that's what's driving our economy forward. But on the other hand, from the employer's point of view, if the flow rate of the frame is constant, when many people go away, it is actually impossible to carry out projects anymore. There's no way to hire people in the long term, and that's what's causing problems. So here we need to find a balance again. The turnover of the workforce is one indicator which is even higher than in the previous boom.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U73	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, We all know that there are different funds, investment funds, structural support funds, which help businesses to stimulate the economy in order to stimulate the growth of businesses. Here's my question. There are now both direct aids that generally do not have to be repaid in the future and which are aimed at different areas, as well as different financial instruments that are implemented in Estonia, for example, through KredEx and MES. How do you feel that the European Union and the countries of the European Union, including Estonia, should contribute more to financial instruments in which entrepreneurs will have to return their support money in the future in the interests of growth, or rather should they contribute to support funds and help the company not to pay back the money in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U75	Thank you for your question. I do not think we can give much expert advice in this area. We have not studied such detailed topics. But we have experienced that, especially in EAS, where all kinds of models have been tested, a proper independent impact analysis is needed to assess all the programmes implemented afterwards. It should be assessed how well they have worked. There are certainly some that are much more effective than others. And the experience of other countries in each country should also be looked at at, some amount of such funds exist. Hopefully they can focus on certain specific areas. However, this impact analysis is not readily available at the moment and therefore I cannot assess which specific options are more appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U76	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. No, it is! Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U77	Honourable waitress! Mr President, I am sorry that I am now so late. But I have this very fundamental question. There are many things in the coalition agreement of the new government that might change, say, our certain fiscal paradigm. I am simply asking whether Eesti Pank is basically prepared to cooperate with the new government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U78	One thing I have emphasised in recent years, and I think it is a success: we have been very apolitical in our statements. When we talk, we talk about issues where we have a certain competence. We are talking about the overall balance of the state budget. We will never speak on specific issues, whether to tax it or tax it or whether to spend it on the revenue and expenditure side or to spend it on other things. Our mandate has a great deal to do with this stability, and our comments have been limited to that. We certainly have our own views, thanks to our experience and analysis. I think we have been very positive about the current general framework of the state budget. In fact, it is right for us now to run this countercyclical line, that in good times it is more reasonable to gather reserves, in bad times it is right not to collect reserves and rather to spend them. Secondly, we know that we will face greater demographic challenges in the future. We know that European Union money will no longer come as much as it has so far. And here it should also be noted that this money has been net of around 3% of our GDP. If Estonia has paid in to the European Union budget about 1% of GDP and recovered about 4%, then the net is about 3% per year. If that money hadn't come, we could have borrowed it, but we got it essentially like no repayment obligation. So, to some extent, loan money will affect our economy and this loan money will be less in the future. There is less euro money, a worse demographic situation, etc. But in the current situation, I think it makes a lot of sense for us to collect buffers. So we support this general approach, which is enshrined in the current law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U79	Thank you. Now you really don't have any questions. Thank you very much for your meaningful presentation and your comprehensive answers. I'm opening negotiations. For the Maris Lauri Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! Thank you for this meaningful presentation and for answering the questions. And thank you very much for seven years, which has been very stormy. I'm sure the beginning of your work in terms of the environment was something entirely different than it is now. I would like to talk about two issues that I think will continue to be important. Firstly, the need to ensure stability in the financial sector. Changes show that we need to be constantly prepared to change the environment, to change situations, to happen something that we did not imagine some time ago. Let's look at our own banking! We have been, as if, part of the Nordic banks and we have had so-called Baltic sisterhoods. Meanwhile, our banking sector decreased because of organisational changes, but now we are back in the role we were in some time ago. Latvia and Lithuania are now in the role we once played in relation to the Nordic countries. These things change, responsibility changes and adaptation is necessary. We need to think a lot more about these things. This is not just about Eesti Pank. I am also thinking about what is happening in the wider economy, what is happening in our region and what is happening in Europe. We should not forget other financial sectors, which are perhaps poorly regulated at the moment. These tiny sectors can cause major problems at some point. We think they're insignificant, but if there's a lot of different risks, then at some point a little trick might be enough, and everything's starting to collapse. So I think we need to deal more with the problems of co-financing in this house, for example, or with other financial sector companies, where the risks are high, but those involved may not always perceive it. The second topic I would like to talk about is Eesti Pank's analytical and advisory functions. Eesti Pank is a government adviser and the government should not make important economic policy decisions without listening to Eesti Pank's position. Now we have to make a distinction between listening and listening. If this hearing remains only formal and the content is not to be listened to, then it will not be of much use. I regret that in recent years the discussion on macro-political choices has been limited. And the reason is one. We can see that there is no known interest in what Eesti Pank would have had to say about the economic environment, the risks or other topics in the current government formation. You don't always have to agree with other guesses, but you have to argue, discuss and understand why such a competent authority thinks in the same way or in a different way, why the other competent authority thinks in a third or fourth way. It is in disputes that the truth is revealed. This also concerns the assessment of the economic cycle. Yes, we have other problems, they include methods and the quality of statistics. But it's important to make decisions on the basis of discussions. This concerns the future of the pension system and, more generally, responsible fiscal policy, it concerns the labour market, migration, investment, borrowing and everything else the government is doing. If the government does not listen to what other parties say, especially Eesti Pank, then, forgive me, unfortunately, the government does not really care about good experts and competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U81	Thank you. On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Centre Party thanks Ardo Hansson for his presentation today and for the work he has done as Governor of Eesti Pank over the years! There will be both joys and anxieties in this time. As one of the keywords of 2018 many Estonian people will remember the money laundering cases of large banks. It is important that Estonia learn from these cases and draw conclusions. I would also like to thank Ardo Hansson, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, for being one of the bravest people, because as the first Governor of Eesti Pank, he apologized at this press conference on the audit of the VEB Fund for the mistake made by Eesti Pank. We consider it important that Eesti Pank be a beacon that keeps Estonia on the right track and warns of the dangers. It is therefore a pleasure to read that Eesti Pank appreciates the state of the Estonian economy, although the economic growth of our trading partners is slowing down and this also affects Estonia's situation. Estonia's debt ratio is the smallest in the European Union, which is 8.2% of GDP this year. Let us remind you here that this figure was 9.2% in 2016. It is therefore not right and fair to say that the government's fiscal policy has become more relaxed. I quote at this point from the Ministry of Finance: 'Estonia's public finances are in good order and the budgetary policies of all recent governments have been responsible. " I would also like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that it is sometimes worth looking at a longer history than the last few years. In particular, I recommend that we do so in the assessment of government reserves, because if we look beyond the last few years, it turns out that the largest decrease in the volume of national reserves took place in 2015. In 2018, the topic of money laundering was the tar drop in the honey pot. But surely we must not forget the positive event that had a major impact on the capital markets and was expected for almost 20 years: it was the sale of the state company, the Port of Tallinn. Before the Port of Tallinn, the state company last went to the stock market in the last century. I believe that both the previous and the new Government of the Republic will certainly take into account the views of Eesti Pank and pursue responsible policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U83	Thank you. Riina Sikkut on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U84	Thank you, good manager. I too thank Ardo Hansson for today's speech and well-balanced answers, as well as for all the work he has done. What sounded like a lot of answers was that we need to look for a balance point. These answers also reflected an understanding of the role of Eesti Pank, which types of decisions influence, how to give advice and who to advise. I'd go further. We already have such an anniversary year and 100-year-old Eesti Pank's role in what we have now reached is very large: I am thinking of ensuring financial stability, keeping Estonia's course. This historical institutional strength should also be borne in mind for the advice of Eesti Pank. But as an analyst, in addition to maintaining price stability and ensuring the circulation of money, I would like to talk about the wider social role of Eesti Pank, giving advice to the government, participating in the public debate. It is very important to use the knowledge and data of Eesti Pank in shaping knowledge-based policies. I think it would be worthwhile for all of us, in addition to the main part of this report last year, to have our eyes crossed from pages 103.105, where all publications and analyses are presented, whether they concern the housing market, savings, behaviour or the situation on the labour market. This information will certainly improve our understanding of the functioning of the economy as well as of all other readers. From the debates of recent times, I would like to give two examples. One is a seminar organised by the Development Monitoring Centre a few weeks ago, where researchers working at Eesti Pank also introduced a survey on the asset gap. Indeed, the gender asset gap is 45% in favour of men. It's also interesting what someone's property is. Women have more deposits, men have more riskier financial assets, business assets. This really is a first-time and unique picture of our people's assets in the whole European context. The largest property of almost all people is housing, whose value varies greatly from one region to another. And in addition to the second pillar: the savings of very many people, the total savings are less than EUR 100. Not less than 100 euros per month, but the total savings are less than 100 euros! We take here the analysis of the consumption behaviour of private individuals, which says that those who join the second pillar will save more for retirement than those who do not. If this information is combined with data on the amount of our people's total assets, if there is no mandatory savings, then we will see that we should all save for the future. Especially given the demographic situation and the developments we have. Yes, of course, from the point of view of one person, it can indeed be that he needs to renovate more homes now than he needs to save. It may be that some of us can better deliver on the stock markets and get a higher return than some pension funds. But in addition to the perspective of individual people, the government and Eesti Pank must and we must also look at the broader social picture, which is because some single people can do better under other circumstances. The question is what the overall result is, whether one or the other solution is for our society, positive or negative for our future pensions. So I thank Ardo Hansson and Eesti Pank! We are also actively involved in the discussions on our future pensions, on saving behaviour! And I will put it to the government: yes, some decisions may be useful to one person or another in the short term, but the government must bear in mind the long term and what is important for all our future pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U85	Thank you. On behalf of the Sven Sester Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Isamaa Group also joins previous speakers: we think that cooperation with Eesti Pank has been good. Once again, thanks to the Governor of Eesti Pank for managing this process! And, as mentioned above, 100 years of Eesti Pank is also very happy about this! Looking at the tasks of Eesti Pank, I think Eesti Pank has done very well. I asked the rapporteur about the single monetary policy for the euro area and precisely the asset purchase programme. I guess this is the subject that was also up when this programme was created: whether this programme really justifies itself in its nature, how much money should actually be issued over the years. Now we've reached 2,6 trillion. This has certainly been contradicted. After all, it is literally money printing, because money does not actually have any cover at the moment it is printed to the billions. However, if you look at a larger and more distant goal, there is certainly a desire to trigger further economic recovery and also possible inflation, which should help to revive its 2% level of economy. And these objectives have certainly been met. This, of course, also has a negative impact, which the President of the Bank also stated. In the case of additional financial printing, some bubbles may occur, while certain property prices in countries may rise. As has already been pointed out today, some decisions may be pushed further into the future if the price of money is relatively cheap due to its own printing. However, the decision of the euro area on such an asset purchase programme has been made in the past, and life will show how long and to what extent we wish to continue. Now, as regards ensuring financial stability, which are important tasks for Eesti Pank, I think that Eesti Pank has done very well. And this, in cooperation with the various organisations active in this market, and also in good cooperation with commercial banks. I am thinking of macro-financial supervision as well as the policy of the financial sector as a whole. Estonian commercial banks have been very well capitalised throughout the years and this has been partly due to our legislative activities. So I am probably not wrong to say that Estonian banks are the most capitalised commercial banks throughout Europe. In my opinion, cooperation between Eesti Pank and Estonian commercial banks has been very good. I am also talking about financial sector policy. Different legislative initiatives from the Credit Institutions Act to the Guarantee Fund Act, the cooperation of Eesti Pank with the parliament and government has been good on both sides. And as the President of the Bank stated, this is a value in itself, if the institutions also communicate outside formal meetings, also informally. I also remember this from my work as Minister of Finance. I think it certainly contributed to many right steps or decisions. Looking at the latest statistics and your report, congratulations have to be made! just that, thanks to various steps in investment of financial assets and other decisions, profits are three or four times higher than they were a year ago. Congratulations on that too! If I'm wrong, it was 13 million in size, 4 million a year earlier. So some decisions have been made better. I think one very important thing that Eesti Pank has done over the years and will continue to do in the future is what Riina Sikkut has just mentioned: analysis and advice. I think it is very important that the organization not only... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U87	... ensuring financial stability and not pursuing a common European policy, but actively discussing with various organisations as well as with the state and government. In my opinion, Eesti Pank has been very successful in this analysis and in advising governments at different times. Your proposals have always been based on conservative monetary policy and how else could it be. I think it's all been very reasonable. So once again: the Isamaa Group believes that this cooperation has been good. Eesti Pank and its leader have been up to their duties. Thank you for this cooperation in seven years. Let us hope that your successor will continue the exact line that has been followed over these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U88	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-07_U89	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, I will close the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for a constructive debate. Thank you very much to the Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson for his good cooperation with the Riigikogu! We wish you every success in the following activities: Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 11.59 a.m.
