ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We'll start the Wednesday briefing and, as usual, it starts with the attendance check. 45 members of the Riigikogu are present, 56 are missing. The following members of the government participate in Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Population Riina Solman and Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Kert Kingo. Introducing or recalling the briefing procedures. First the members of the Riigikogu who are registered to ask a question, then those who are registered will also have the opportunity to ask an additional question and then one more question from the hall. Each member may ask one question, which shall be two minutes, and the time allowed for replying shall be three minutes. If there are no more questions, we will close the debate on this particular issue and move on to the next one.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U2	Lauri Läänemets is the first to register to ask a question. Does Urmas Kruus have a procedural question? No, I'm not. I'm already registered. Very good! The first opportunity is to ask Lauri Läänemets, who has a question for the Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology, Kert Kingole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U3	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Undoubtedly, the state budget is one of those concrete examples which, in addition to the coalition's views, also expresses the Minister's own priorities in the field of his activities. Looking at the state budget, the next budget for 2020 has reduced the funding earmarked for the rental housing measure by EUR 15 million and subsidies for the renovation of small houses, for the purchase of local renewable energy heaters have been abolished. All these measures are aimed at improving the housing situation, while the rental housing measure is intended to improve business opportunities in rural areas. I am interested in the reasons why you have decided to cut down precisely those measures that help and support rural life in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U4	Thank you for your question. This is related to the fact that we usually have these benefits through KredEx, in rural areas in particular, and now we are changing direction to start supporting more entrepreneurship in areas outside Tallinn and Tartu. To this end, we are planning different measures, because we are calling these regions outlying regions the problem is that the value of investment is definitely lower. We are thinking here, for example, of buying buildings or buying land; their value is smaller than that of Tallinn, for example. And this is where we intend to start offering this supporting role through KredEx, for example, in the case of a supporter's application or in the case of a guarantor, so that there is support. The problem in rural areas is that if, for example, an entrepreneur wants to acquire a building, its purchase price is certainly significantly higher than the value of the bank documents.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U5	Thank you. A more specific question, Lauri Western Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U6	Thank you. Of course, it is very nice to support these companies and that is what must be done, but if there are no people and no employees, then there is nothing for them to do there. But as a result of your response, I would ask why next year's budget will no longer find the means to support the network connections of regional companies. The purpose of these grants was to alleviate problems and bottlenecks related to electricity, communications, water and anything else in rural areas. You have just said that you want to pay more attention to companies, but this measure is intended for businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U7	Thank you for your question. It must be acknowledged that the interest in this measure was significantly less than expected when analysing this period afterwards. This means that it is now necessary to review the content and make it so that businesses have an interest in its activities. But in the form it was, the interest was too modest. That's why.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! The availability of postal services in rural areas has emerged in recent weeks and a large number of different social groups have spoken about this. What is certain is that when we look at the provision of services in rural areas as a whole, the pressure to reduce the number of services in rural areas is as if the situation is encoded, but the state certainly has the capacity and the duty to alleviate it. You have said in the press to companies that they should review their business models, suggesting that they certainly are not working well, and this was linked to the rise in the prices of home delivery services, as has been said. Now, when I looked at the news in today's newspapers, which indicated that last year Eesti Post has suffered almost one and a half million losses by transporting tax letters, I would like to ask you whether you have reviewed the business model of Eesti Post's own business model and what plan you have with Eesti Post in general so that the letters will reach home in the country and the number of post offices will not fall to zero.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U10	Thank you for your question. I would like to stress again, and the last general meeting has also given a clear message that our aim is to ensure that people are able to get the press on time on six days a week, exactly as many days as the newspapers are issued, and already in the morning. I have also said that, although the Competition Authority issued a recommendation, I would stress that it was recommended to reduce the number of post offices to 215, we are not going with it at the moment. Let's stick to maintaining the 267 post offices that are now. We have ordered an analysis of the Omniva group as a whole; we intend to carry out a thorough analysis of all companies within the Omniva group: by each company, its revenues, costs and results. This analysis should be completed in the spring and it is only on this basis that we can start making more concrete decisions on how to move forward. It is certain that, also under the Postal Law, we have an obligation to deliver press publications to people, and so it will remain, this service will not be lost. The purpose of this analysis is to find a solution to the way in which the mail delivery service to the home would be less accessible, depending on which of our analytical results have been turned to profit according to ideal expectations or at least zeroed. I will also clarify the point that media companies are saying in relation to the business model that mail delivery at home is volume-based: the more pages are ordered, the cheaper it will be when it comes to home delivery. Media companies are private companies and are subject to market rules, a demand-supply balance, that was the point of this sentence. We can't fix the sales numbers of the media companies. It is our duty to ensure that we bring the ordered newspaper to the person, but whether these newspapers are ordered and how many they are ordered depends on the sales strategy or work strategy of each company.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U12	The next question is the Foreign Trade and Information Technology Minister, Kert Kingole Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U13	Thank you. First of all, it's a pleasure to welcome you here in Question Time! The position of Minister of Foreign Trade was foreseen on the electoral platform of our own Reform Party, and the idea of this was that it was often the minister that had the necessary pagunas to open doors to companies outside Estonia, to organise very high-level meetings that would enable our companies to operate better outside Estonia, and to invite investors to come and invest here. All this so that the people of Estonia have higher salaries, good jobs and a better life. So far, EAS has also been an organisation that has dealt with it outside Estonia, but maybe EAS has not had the necessary bases to do the job well enough. It now turns out that the government has agreed that EAS foreign missions will be transferred to the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Can you confirm today that such a decision has been made in the government and also explain how you, as Minister for Foreign Trade, took the decision or participated in the decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U14	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to state that my position is the Minister of Information Technology and Foreign Trade. I hope that you have brought yourself up to date with everything in my area of responsibility. I could also read these two pages in A4 format to you; not only is there foreign trade here; in addition to IT there is also space, KredEx, Estonian Post, State Information Systems Authority, all this topic. As regards the part of the question that the EAS Foreign Representations are being transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have not been involved in this matter in the government. The issue in the government was how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also been informed through the press about it, creating more for two economic diplomats. However, we have discussed these issues in the light of how the work of the external representatives of the EAS would be the most effective, most effective and most inclusive of the interests of entrepreneurs. We have now analysed here and we will also further analyse in which countries the need for more intermediaries would be greater and in which countries this need would be smaller. And that's the basis of everything that we're going to move on from. But that is how much I can say that we have discussed these issues and that our aim is still to ensure that businesses have the best possible opportunity to enter foreign markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U15	Thank you. Specific question, Kaja Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U16	Yeah, thanks! Indeed, I am aware that your title includes two sides, but since we haven't heard much about either side of it, what you're doing there, maybe we'll forget. My focus was just on foreign trade. I'm gonna ask you about this foreign trade. You have read out a number of institutions and agencies that belong to you, but there is not much to be heard about what you are doing specifically in relation to foreign trade. And unwittingly, perhaps through the media, it's like you don't want to do this job, that you don't like the job, and that you stay away from it. My question is: why did you accept this post at all if you do not want to do this job?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U17	Thank you for that question. It is very astonishing and at times embarrassing to hear from a Member of Parliament such information based on press, rumors and gossip, on which it is as if a serious and factual issue has been formed. But I am trying to answer this very embarrassing question, yes, in the sense that you asked such a question. Say I don't want to. Have we spoken to you, Kaja Kallas, about what I want to do and what I don't want to do? I don't seem to remember it. And I don't remember any journalist talking to me about it. As for what I am doing, this too has been expressed and reflected in the press. Perhaps an emphasis could be put on such substantive articles. You can also get more information from the social media page of our Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the active user of which you are, so you can look a little more closely and collect information from there. Dealing with foreign trade doesn't mean I'm going around the world with a suitcase of product samples. There are examples of how your party minister went to Malaysia to do great things, but as a result, exports to Malaysia have not increased. Similarly, after Liisa Oviir has been a minister, she has not come to Estonia to open so-called doors and introduce us to the big growth figures. But thank them, they've worked very hard. Now is the time when we should be there for businesses on the ground, so that these established contacts can also reach businesses. That's what we do mostly through EAS. And our role is that not only does it not say in reports that someone went there and did it, but that these agreements and activities will actually reach businesses, so that they know how they can enter foreign markets or through whom they can do it. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U18	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U19	Thank you. Madam Secretary of Foreign Trade! I can confirm that the members of the Riigikogu have different sources of information, not just the press, and one of the sources of information is you. You had a chance to talk, and we heard that you were embarrassed with a reason, and we also heard some dark clues to other politicians from the past. But let's try to use the source of information that is currently in front of us in Riigikogu Question Time. I asked you in the Committee on Monetary Affairs what the Foreign Trade Minister's role is in developing exports, describe this process. Your answer was very informative: you do not understand the question. Similarly, you were offended, even though the question was completely neutral, and you said that you would not be driving around with suitcases, product samples, that is to say, economic diplomats and foreign agencies. Please describe the process of these foreign missions and economic diplomats travelling around with suitcases. If you don't drive, how will they drive, and what is your role? What is the role of the Minister for Foreign Trade in developing foreign trade? Seriously, you're our source. We're asking you, but you're starting to beat the questioner, as was the case with the previous question. Try again!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U20	Thank you for your question. I am very pleased to hear that some of the answers that I gave you in the Committee on Monetary Affairs were also remembered in an optional form. At least nothing. I would like to draw attention to the Statute of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. It is a basic document setting out the activities of the Minister. And it also sets out the structure of the ministry. You, Jürgen Ligi, as a senior minister, should know that every ministry has a minister who carries out his political will and organises the ministry's work. There's also a chancellor at the Ministry, and he's a deputy chancellor. I can send you a link to this regulation so you can get to know it. Each Vice Chancellor is assigned a certain piece of work and responsibility for which he is paid. The same is true of the chancellor. The task of the Minister shall be to implement the political will and to organise the work of the Ministry. You're worried about foreign trade. The health of foreign trade is very good. For this purpose, a network of external advisors and export consultants has been set up in EAS over the years, already during the period of the Reform Party's coalition, who receive daily remuneration to be present at all times in the country of destination for potential partners and to establish contacts that will be subsequently communicated to economic operators. Similarly, you should know, having been a minister in the past, that EAS also has measures to help entrepreneurs to visit Estonia through EAS at various fairs, conferences, business delegation events and their potential cooperation partners and to promote business relations. This is a normal and natural process, and in its time, it was precisely your party that set the foundation for EAS. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U21	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U22	Next up, Heljo Pikhof. Question from Foreign Trade and Information Technology Minister Kert Kingole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U23	Thank you. Dear Minister, We all know that the government in office has given priority to the development of the field of foreign trade, as has already been said here, and this is why the respective ministerial portfolio was created. Is there a wider area of support for export development, support for investments, foreign trade among your tasks? At the same time, you have announced that you do not want to go abroad; your foreign language skills are also known. When we look at the position of Foreign Minister and Minister for Foreign Trade, these are the positions of ministers, which must speak the language well and must go abroad to maintain ties and establish links. Similarly, the Minister of Foreign Affairs could say that I am not going abroad, that there are a number of representatives of other countries in Estonia, that there are ambassadors, that I will deal with them. My question is, do you not consider it reasonable to abandon this position and give it to someone who wants to create foreign trade links for Estonia and who knows foreign languages?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U24	Thank you for your question. Here, I have the same question as to what you're saying about these things. I don't remember talking to you in private, and we could have tested each other's language skills, just as I don't remember having talked about me refusing to travel. On what basis do you put forward such arguments? I don't remember telling anyone that I refuse to travel. I have a serious question about how the members of the opposition party in this Chamber can have this understanding based solely on what is published in the press. It goes back to the category of MEPs speaking gossip stories that have been glued together today and spreading them as absolute truth. As Minister for Foreign Trade, I have been working very thoroughly since the summer precisely so that our companies can enter foreign markets. Unfortunately, we have to admit that we are a small country and from outside there are expectations of very large orders that we are unable to carry out. That's why we should find ourselves a smaller niche. Right now, in my time, we have dealt with measures to support small businesses in the budget of the year, with 2.5 million of them, as well as large producers. We have different measures and all of them are also available on the EAS website. So it's work in that direction. It is also down to what Kaja Kallas previously pointed out that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we are discussing how to make this work even more effective and to involve more actively the honorary consuls, who we have over 200 and who are in 82 countries and whose one task is certainly to deal with businesses and business relations. The network of all those trying to do their best to ensure that businesses have state support to expand to other countries is very large. If there are situations where the presence of a minister is necessary, the minister has been present. It depends exactly on the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U25	A more specific question from Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U26	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has already resented several times with members of the Riigikogu because they rely on secondary sources to assess its position and performance. Consequently, I have a procedural question as to whether there have been cases where the Minister has expressed his wish to come before Parliament to talk about his work, and the Riigikogu Board has banned it. The information may not have reached the members of the Riigikogu that, for some reason, the person has not been allowed to come to talk about his work, even though the law of the Riigikogu on home and working procedures allows it. Or is it true that, for reasons unknown to us, the honourable minister has not expressed his wish to appear before the Riigikogu during this term of office for more than half a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U27	Thank you. It's not a procedural question. However, I can answer that the Board of the Riigikogu has not prohibited any minister from coming to the Riigikogu, and today you have an excellent opportunity to ask questions to the Minister of Information Technology and Foreign Trade. Jürgen Ligi, is there a procedural question? But I'd really like to ask for a treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U28	Thank you. I really do have a procedural question. Although the Evgeni question was very relevant, it was not procedural, so you are again right. The Minister has said on several occasions, in answering the question, that he is the one who has the question. Would it be possible for him to ask the Riigikogu these questions and we can answer him?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U29	Yes, as a member of the probably long-term Riigikogu, you know perfectly well that our Home and Working Procedures Act does not provide for such things. This is not a procedural question exactly the same as was not the question of Mr Ossinovski. But now let's get to the point. Heljo Pikhof, please, second, more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U30	Thank you. I would ask the Minister to tell us which specific countries he has visited during this six months and which contacts he has made. I mean countries outside Estonia. That's one thing. And another thing: in the press, the "Radar" show was very clear about your language skills. But let's go now to the 2020 budget. In this budget, funds are not available to support the network connection of regional companies. The purpose of this support was to alleviate bottlenecks in connection with electricity, communications, water and other network connections for enterprises operating in rural areas. The question is this: is the development of entrepreneurship in rural areas not your priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U31	Thanks for asking. I just answered the exact same question. Please be more careful not to duplicate your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U32	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! After all, today's Question Time is, in a sense, a unique opportunity for you to explain directly from the source what you are doing, but you spend more than half your time asking us or reprimanding us. And it kind of gets weird. You have said in the press yourself, and you have not contradicted what the press has said, that your priority is not to travel around the world, and you intend to travel there as little as possible, and that if you do not find a way to meet the Estonian community on Estonian soil, you will organise these meetings either in America or anywhere else in the world. As a result, members of the Riigikogu have the question that suddenly this title is wrong or something else wrong. But I think that as a long-lived person, you are aware of the importance of communicating at the highest level in certain countries and export markets in order to build trust. The Prime Minister has not noticed so much trust in you at the moment that he would have allowed you to attend a government press conference during this period, but I am telling you that if you do not come to certain countries, there is very little hope that our entrepreneurs will do well there. Could you convince us that there is a new opportunity, a place where, based on cultural background and traditions, the Minister does not have to be present, but the doors are open to entrepreneurs so that there is no need to worry?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U34	Thank you for your question. I will explain to you again the principles of foreign diplomacy in Estonia. In all these trips abroad, the main consideration is the benefits to the Estonian state, which is the purpose of this foreign visit, which is its content and whether there are any plans to enter into agreements. The next step to be considered is the level of these meetings or external visits. It's very strict. There are meetings of delegations that take place only at the level of officials, there are meetings that take place, say, at the level of small leaders, and there are also meetings that take place at the level of ministers or presidents. On this basis, decisions are taken on which event to attend, depending on the country in which it takes place and on which it does not take place. That is what we are sticking to, because it is the principle of foreign diplomacy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U35	Thank you. I will conclude on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U37	Does Evgeny Ossinovski have a procedural question? Yeah, let's get the procedure first.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U38	Liina Kersna next and the question is for Riina Solman, Minister of Population. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U39	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, A working group convened by the Ministry of Education and Research, aimed at modernising the national curriculum of the pre-school institution, took place between November and May last year. Various associations of subjects, researchers, experts and practitioners from Tallinn and the University of Tartu were involved in this working group. Six months of work was carried out and in June the working group presented its proposals to the Ministry. Now, at the beginning of October, the Ministry has made public the working version of the national kindergarten curriculum produced by other people, and the experts in this previous working group say that these proposals are not taken into account at all in this working version. On Monday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, you stressed the role of your co-responsible in various areas, and these include the creation of a national curriculum for early childhood education. My question is what your role has been in the process of creating a national curriculum for early childhood education.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U40	Thank you, Mrs Liina Kersna, for a very thorough question. Indeed, the silo government does not have any cooperation, as is the case with this particular law. As regards the Early Childhood Education Act, we are currently preparing a draft with the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Social Affairs. Gerli Lehte, a member of the Population and Family Policy Department under the authority of the Minister for Population Affairs, has met the parties and has made proposals on two occasions since last week's start of work on the issues you have just asked. It's on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U41	Thank you. Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U42	Thank you very much. The main criticism of today's version of work is that it is very teacher-driven. This working document even provides the teacher with detailed methodological guidance on how and what to teach the child, which is generally not in line with the modern approach to learning. My question is what guidance you have given your advisor on where to put this process forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U43	Thank you for the additional question. This official, my family policy advisor Gerli Lehe, is a person with a master's degree in early childhood education, so he is more able to advise me on these matters. But thank you for pointing this out, and we will take this issue under review. You are also welcome to send your proposals to both me and Gerli Lehe directly to the Ministry's addresses. Good point!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U44	Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U45	Thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Population! Your topics include population development, including, of course, the births and deaths of people, i.e. natural births. In the last year, the previous government made changes to the Family Benefits Act regarding parental benefits, and in September this year a new period of calculation of parental benefits began. Thirdly, I would point out that the explanatory memorandum to the current State Budget Act states that the government will be planning to map the impact and cost-effectiveness of the current family policy measures next year, i.e. in 2020. My question is about this period of calculation of parental benefit, which has already received a great deal of criticism in the past and which is quite likely to have a negative impact on the birth rate, because it is particularly the younger births that are affected by this period, as well as the rebirths. So my question is this: do you intend to review the principles of the parental benefit period and do something about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U46	Thank you for a good question, Jüri Jaanson, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Yes, it is. We will review all family policy measures, work with all other ministries and try to have a say in drafting documents so that we actually take into account family friendly Estonia, take into account that families have good and safe children, and that more attention is paid to supporting their upbringing. This also applies to this parental benefit law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U47	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U48	Next, Jevgeni Ossinovski and the question of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Minister Kert Kingo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U49	Thank you. Madam Secretary! Your party's leadership has praised Donald Trump's protectionist trade policy in one of his propaganda shows last year, which has already triggered a tariff war with China, and now from the latest news we know that the European Union is known to be targeted in the next round. In this same show, today's Minister of Finance called German trade policy a global racket, or criminal blackmail. According to Germany, 'we are milking all the lands'. They were also happy to wait for Trump to set charges for German cars, and then it's still fucked up. For me, this kind of dismay over the potential economic difficulties of the European economic engine is, of course, a little weird, given the extent to which our own well-being is linked to the overall state of the European Union's economy. But as a result, to allow you to answer directly, and so we should not rely on secondary sources, the question is this: could you enlighten us a little bit about your commercial policy views? Do you share the enthusiasm of your party leaders about Trump's protectionism? Do you think that further liberalisation of world trade policy should be supported, or rather countries, including Estonia, should work harder to protect their producers from foreign competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U50	Thank you for your question. The European Union has a common foreign trade policy and we are a member of the European Union. The foreign trade that I am responsible for means that the direction is to follow these common principles. An open economy, fair trade, is very important for us, Estonia. We do not have a foreign trade policy in Estonia, apart from the European Union, because the European Commission represents us all in this area in the European Union. As far as China, America and Russia are concerned, I would like to make it clear that there is an important rule of law in world trade. In the European Union, trade rules are based on the World Trade Organisation (WTO) agreements. And although Estonia trades only three of the 15 largest trading partners under these WTO rules, these countries are very important to us in terms of volumes. And these three countries are the United States, China and Russia. Right now, yes, there are tensions in the European Union, we are aware. But it does not change our direction, we in the European Union follow the directions that have been decided and established. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U51	Thank you. A more specific question from Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U52	Thank you. However, in the context of the European Union's trade policy, the way in which trade policy is seen depends on the mandate given by the Member States to the European Commission. In this context, it is important to understand whether or not the Minister in charge of the Government of the Republic is in favour of a liberal world trade policy. But I read from your answer that this is the case: you think that trade policy should be liberal and that the unilateral trade policy steps taken by Donald Trump are actually things that you do not support, unlike your party's leading family. But if that's not the case, you can specify that. My second question is certainly very important in the public interest too, and I have not heard your comment on this as Minister for Foreign Trade. As we know, one of the most important changes in world trade policy has been the escalating tariff war between the US and China, which actually has a major impact on the global economy. Can you offer members of the Riigikogu your vision of how this trade war affects Estonian companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U53	Thank you for your question. Right now, it would be premature to talk about some influence. This war is a war, yes, but it is being tried to find a normal solution that satisfies all parties, and in this situation it would be extremely irresponsible of me to say a certain position. There is no impact at the moment, nothing specifically decided. There are just differences that will be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U54	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U55	Thank you. Dear Minister, After all, entrepreneurs expect the Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology to go abroad as much as possible and make useful connections for Estonia. But you did not answer my previous question: in which countries you have visited as a minister and in which countries you have opened up markets for our businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U56	Thank you for your question. On the first side, as of now, I have been to Ottawa, Canada, not opening foreign trade markets, as you call it. The plan is to go to Germany in the near future, to two different cities at the end of October, and to visit a company or to meet a company, if possible. But if you think that you're making connections, I understand that you've not been a minister yourself, and you don't have a very clear view of how this procedure is going at ministerial level and at national level, it's that I'm going to show up and quickly hand in hand and make connections, then that's not the case. There is a prerequisite for a very long-term negotiation at the level of officials, which will eventually culminate in the conclusion of agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U57	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U58	Next to Jürgen Ligi, the Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Kert Kingo responds. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U59	Thank you. Madam Secretary of Foreign Trade! We have a problem with George Ratas. Everyone has a share of the economy. Urmas Jaagant, in a recent opinion, describes quite well how, in recent years, an expert gets the answer when he talks about the economy that you are a fool. And so far, it's been about the macroeconomics, the budget. This means that the governments of Ratios have undermined the growth potential of the economy in their fiscal policies, heated up price increases, increased labour shortages and thereby reduced the opportunities for businesses. As Minister of Enterprise, you are certainly very concerned about this. Now there is a new issue of pension reform, which has also been said to be stupid, we have made a decision, but you can talk. Let's try and talk about it and you try it. Tell me what you have done as Minister for Foreign Trade to ensure that the interests of companies are protected and that there is no scenario described by Eesti Pank: there will be a temporary consumption boom and economic growth will be smaller in the future. The background to all of this is, of course, the immediate problems with the labour force, the price increase and the competitiveness of companies. What have you done in the government and can you do more to ensure that these structural problems do not accumulate and that the government acts responsibly on businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U60	Thank you for your question. Although I must point out that this was a very confusingly formulated question, I am trying to answer that question. EAS, which is an entrepreneur, will have a higher grant volume next year than it was in 2019. So the first part of your introduction is not very true. The volume of support for EAS companies has increased, not decreased, by 7.1 million. You started with Prime Minister Jüri Ratas not giving money to trade and whatever. Second, you brought in the issue of pensions. It's all such a hypothetical issue, because I can't imagine having psychics that can predict people's behavior with 100% precision. None of the specialists know how a person is going to behave with his pension money, that's all on the surface of conjecture. And now start panicking at the very beginning that what happens now, nobody buys or spends irresponsibly, it's not like it's really appropriate at the moment. We need to wait for what the situation will be, and we need to respond accordingly. But once again, it is not in anyone's power to predict how a person will behave with his or her financial resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U61	Thank you. Specific question, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U62	Madam Secretary of Foreign Trade, focus! You must be smarter in economic matters than Jüri Ratas. My question was not about the EAS or how much money you are giving it, but about the fact that the governments of Jüri Ratas have undermined the potential of businesses and growth. This mechanism is not in any form of public funding, but in the fact that expansionary fiscal policies, overexpenditure, heat inflation and, above all, even greater labour shortages are being created. The country creates a shortage of labour by channelling money into certain areas, and this is the bottleneck. I do not really think that you are smarter than Eesti Pank or the Fiscal Council. They have described this process neutrally, impartially. But here, you could be in the government to help companies. I ask you once again: what have you done to ensure that there are no budget overruns or temporary consumption booms with the payment of pension money and that companies are protected, that they do not have excessive price increases or labour shortages? What are you doing in the government? Don't talk about EAS!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U63	Thank you for your question. A recent assessment by experts from the Estonian Conjuncture Institute in September shows that the current economic situation remains good. And I do not agree with your statement that the current Prime Minister, based in principle on your words, will destroy our business. That's not true. We have many measures for businesses to stimulate entrepreneurship and the wider economy. Our priority is regionality. We have focused our emphasis on areas outside Tallinn and Tartu to give business opportunities and start-up capital to the companies there, both through KredEx and EAS. I therefore think that the current concern is not quite relevant.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U64	Thank you. Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U65	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Minister! The so-called external trade success of companies depends very much on how innovation reaches them, and here you are certainly well acquainted with the European Commission's report on the state of innovation in Estonia. One of these many concerns EAS, which has in fact not played its role in ensuring innovation in companies, although it is claimed to do so. This report points out that if EAS wants to play this role, it will have to make a lot of changes. On the other hand, this report also points out that there are certain organisational things related to innovation, which Estonia may not cover everything itself, and suggests that it could also be your function to involve external organisations either from the nearest or somewhere further away. Firstly, I have this question of how the EAS has taken up this innovation task for them and, secondly, whether you, as a very important player in delivering innovation home to companies, have contacted organisations already working at international level with good experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U66	Thank you for the relevant question. As far as EAS is concerned, I have already said here that we have dealt with EAS thoroughly since the beginning of the summer in order to make EAS as effective as possible, and this also concerns innovation issues. In doing so, we also hope to bring the innovative activities that we are aiming at into line with what we expect. As far as innovation in general is concerned, we are planning new measures from next year, at present, to work on digitalisation, for example, in companies. These measures are being developed. In addition, in cooperation with research institutions, we plan to explain how entrepreneurs can take advantage of science in their daily activities and thus be more innovative and also more competitive. We have been discussing these issues in the Council of Research Institutions. We are also planning measures where necessary, and there are external specialists in the field of science to be hired to Estonia. All these activities are in work, but given that my term of office has now been five months, it is inevitably impossible, for reasons beyond my control, to launch all these things in five months. Prep's pretty long.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U67	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U68	Next, I will give the floor to Mr Padar, who has a question for Mr Kingo, Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U69	Thank you. Madam President, thank you very much. Excuse me, Madam Secretary. But that president might be right in the future, of course, I'm not gonna rule it out. My question is good taste. I apologise in advance for not being good in the sense that my question to you is vague. The story is that we already know from January that the Bocuse d'Or, or the chefs' Olympics, will arrive in Tallinn with its preliminary round. There has been enough confusion with the organization of this event, its funding. Now the government must be acknowledged, because it has allocated EUR 770000 to the event. At the same time, I know that the minimum budget to organise something like this should be around 1.7 million. This is now the subject that we should definitely extend this event as much as possible for the benefit of Estonia. Not only because it concerns the so-called kitchen and cooking, but in order to expand tourism, develop the food industry and also agriculture. What part of the amount allocated by the government will be covered by this arrangement? That is my main question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U70	Thank you for your question. I dealt with Bocus d'Or for a very long time. I would point out that this will take place in Tallinn, Estonia, in June next year, and this is the interim Olympics, which will take place every two years in some European cities. The government allocated EUR 750000 from its reserve. This is supplemented by EUR 25000 from the Ministry of Rural Affairs, EUR 100000 from Tallinn City Government and EUR 100000 from EAS. In total, let's say, the amount allocated by the state is EUR 1 million. The event is led by the Estonian Culinary Institute, which will contribute 200,000 euros from its own resources. The total budget will be 1.2 million. The license for this event costs EUR 500000. The license itself includes a lot of covering activities, including the delivery of kitchens, as well as the specific nature of all such. As a result of our analysis and debate, it has been concluded that with 1.2 million it is possible to organise this event in a nice and solid manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U71	Thank you. Specific question, Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U72	When would it be possible to see the larger plan from which we would see how Estonia has taken advantage of all the opportunities associated with this event? I mean everything that concerns tourism, the food industry and the related areas. Have you, too, negotiated with different ministries in the context of the New Year's budget how these coverages will come about?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U73	Thank you for your question. As far as tourism is concerned, Bocuse d'Or is organised through EAS. And EAS has involved all tourism companies. They have been informed of the event precisely with a view to developing food tourism more. Estonia is positive about this and we are now seeing one opportunity to promote our tourism. And since the organisation takes place through the EAS, the EAS will regularly provide an overview of the stage they are going through. Cooperation between the different areas shall be carried out in accordance with the needs of the organisation. As far as I can tell, before the license is obtained, it's difficult to give an overview. Only after that can the next steps be taken. So we're talking about a license to arrange.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U74	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U75	Thank you. My previous question was about the government's macroeconomic policy, or the use of billions. You spent your time talking about millions. Now the question is about millions, but I will ask this billion questions, please try to answer. It is not about your agreement or my opinion, it is about the knowledge and analysis of experts, which says that the government is harming entrepreneurship with its macro-economic policies. The specific theme of this week is the creation of the possibility of paying pension funds. In practically unanimous estimates by analysts, this creates problems for us with inflation and investment, as well as in the labour market. Please tell me what you are doing in the government as a minister involved in entrepreneurship in order to avoid these harmful effects, so that investments by companies do not disappear. Pension funds have practically already finished them in Estonia so that prices do not rise. But they will rise again, if they allow the pension to be paid out at once. What are you doing to avoid further pressure on the labour market? What is your role as minister? Please don't judge the experts! That experts are stupid, said a journalist in one title, I don't say that. It was the reporter's ironic critical observation of the government's attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U76	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to state my position on the pension waiver. I believe that a person has the right to decide for himself whether to use and dispose of his money. Secondly, according to the survey, as far as I know, it has been established that there are not many people planning to withdraw the pension money when this opportunity arises. And I am still saying: regardless, our main task is, in any case, the development of entrepreneurship. You can't predict what's going on and you shouldn't start causing panic here, because now the whole economy is overheating, and I don't know what else is going to happen. Business rules are always the same. The market changes every day and entrepreneurs need to be able to orientate in it. And the argument that the government is artificially raising prices is, in my view, not very relevant. The rise in prices may be a consequence of some change that has taken place, but our government will certainly not artificially do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U77	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U78	Next, Urve Tiidus, Minister of Population Riina Solman, has registered the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Population Riina Solman! Your most important mission as Minister of Population is to promote family policy and to achieve an increase in the birth rate in Estonia. When you took office, you promised to take a critical look at all the policies you had so far in order to increase the birth rate of children. There is probably a pessimist somewhere now who considers the commitment you have made to be an impossible mission, but this is, of course, a key mission for Estonia's future. In next year's state budget, the goal of your performance area, family policy, is briefly worded: "The people of Estonia are a growing nation and the well-being and quality of life of children and families have increased. 'The budget is set at EUR 795000 for the Children's and Families Programme. I'm currently ignoring the organizational changes, the department's move from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Ministry of the Interior and the time you settled in. But would you please comment on how you intend to act with this budget in concrete terms, so that next year's natural growth will be positive and will continue to be so in the coming years, and that, overall, the age group under 18 will grow to more than 19%, or more than a fifth of the population? And I ask you, too, that the coalition has not taken the matter too lightly for your mission by sharing budget money. Maybe it's too little money.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U80	Thank you very much, Mr Urve Tiidus, a good member of the Riigikogu, for a very thorough question and for the preparation that you have made everything very clear about me! Indeed, it has taken five months to launch a new function, to take responsibility for population policy. It's taken its time. But I'm gonna start answering from the back forward. I'm sorry in advance if a nuance fails to comment, just to fit within the time frame. Is there too little money? There are always more wishes than opportunities for every action that is important to the state. It should be borne in mind that the function of a minister disappeared from the Ministry of Social Affairs because it was transferred to the Ministry of the Interior. As a result, there are certain costs in the state budget, but some of the money has been transferred to the Ministry of the Interior to enable the Minister of Population to operate, and some of the areas of the Ministry of the Interior have also been transferred to the Minister of Population. Therefore, perhaps you feel that the funding in this area is very low. But it's just starting a function. I am grateful to all my predecessors, including the Minister of Population of the Reform Party, Paul-Eerik Rummo, and the representative of the Social Democrats, Urve Palo, who have done very well before me. We certainly cannot do anything literally to increase the birth age generation, but we can give families a sense of security that Estonia is family friendly. We can review all our policies with the view that they are the basis and prerequisite for the birth of as many children as possible. This is quite possible, and several countries have already done so before Estonia. My primary tasks are the analysis of the current policy and the proposal for new measures. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the third and more children's support came into force in July 2017. It went up to 500 euros. The previous coalition government, composed of the Centre Party, the Fatherland and the Social Democrats, passed this law. This initiative actually came not from government officials, but was carried out by NGO Eesti Natsimusüüsed, who proposed to increase the support to the state. The coalition went along with this, and there were more than 600 births in the previous year. These data are available at the Statistical Office; they have been confirmed. The study shows that at least half of families want three children ideally, however, they do not actually reach the ideal. Obstacles must be removed, and one of them is a material obstacle.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U81	Thank you. A more specific question, Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U82	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Shorter and longer population projections have been made in Estonia, the longest is even until 2080. With a very large generalisation, it is hoped that the decline in population will slow down. There is, of course, always a certain uncertainty for such long projections, but, as I mentioned in the first question, you promised to critically review all the family policy measures so far, and you have already described some steps in your reply. To Mr Jaanson, you briefly explained the possible changes concerning parental benefit. You have also brought this aside on the subject of housing for families with children, which was when you took up this job and gave the first interviews. I would also like to ask you to share a little more information on this subject: what are you going to do about these parental benefits? In addition to the three children's issue, this measure has really produced a very positive result, and this issue of housing for families with children. Can you explain for a while?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U83	Thank you for the clarification. As regards the birth rate of children, I would add that the first quarters of this year, 2019, have shown rather that this trend continues, and that the number of births resulting from third and more children's support has increased. However, as regards parental benefit and possible state mortgage guarantee, we are working closely with Minister of Economic Affairs Taavi Asa, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aabi and also Minister of Rural Affairs Mart Järvik. We have a more serious meeting planned at the beginning of November, as well as separate meetings with ministers. And we often discuss these issues at our meetings. The point is to help families living in rural areas. Indeed, the study also shows that people prefer to live with their families in a beautiful environment, but younger people cannot afford it. Banks do not grant loans to young people for housing unless they have sufficient collateral to provide. And that's gonna be a barrier to moving to their land or staying on land. You drew attention to the population projections up to 2080. Indeed, we have a population shrinking to 1.2 million. It is also possible to support the country with this population, but I would point out that during this period, internal migration takes place mostly in Tallinn and its surroundings, in a "golden circle," as well as in Tartu and Tartu. It is possible for the state to direct and mitigate this process through various policy measures. The Statistical Office has also provided a really promising picture in this regard: people would return if there were infrastructure, if there were health services, if the shops needed and, of course, educational establishments were available. If the country continues its policy of concentration in cities, of course, this will not happen, but people would prefer to go back to rural areas and show this signs. Now I'm really sorry, I think I missed something about maternity benefits. This analysis is currently underway... [[They say something in the hall.]] Yeah, I'm sorry! About the parental benefit. The analysis is ongoing and the deadline is December 2019. By then we will present our proposals and comments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U84	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! In this we certainly agree that parental benefit has a strong role to play in family policy. Families themselves have also admitted that if we compare with the systems of the rest of the world, we could say that ours is quite generous. What still worries me about the question of the previous speaker is the funds you have to command. It is an old truth that documents and other documents can be produced, but if the money is not available or the use of it cannot be decided, it is quite difficult to implement the plans. Good heart and will may not be enough in this case. You referred to Minister Järvik, with whom you will be discussing the repopulation of rural areas in the near future, i.e. moving families there. Minister Järvik spoke about the fact that he has received a great deal of information from the EKRE organisation operating in Finland some time ago. It's like these people want to return to Estonia and just move to the country. I heard that, and I want to ask whether you rely solely on this organisation in your analysis or whether more has been studied to decide how to allocate money. Are you only convinced, on this basis, that this measure is necessary? This was a little worrying, as the minister himself said it here before the Estonian people and the parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U86	Thank you for another thorough question, Mr Urmas Kruuse. Am I right to understand that this was a question of returning from Finland? Or did I hear you wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U87	A mike for Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U88	The question was that the Minister indicated that one programme was also created on the basis of information that very much has been said in the EKRE department operating in Finland that it would like to live in Estonia, but banks do not grant loans. It's impossible to start a new life like this. My question, therefore, was whether this was the only information. It seemed very unexpected.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U89	Actually, it shouldn't be unexpected. I believe that, within the framework of the global Estonian economy, all political parties in this Parliament have been in contact with foreign Estonians, including Estonians who settled in Finland, who in most cases have left home because of wage conditions, which are better in Finland. A recent Finnish study showed that Estonians do not assimilate in Finland, but carry their home Estonia in their heart and hope to return to their homeland as economic conditions improve. I believe that Minister Järvik's message was that the country should deal more vigorously with returnees, which is indeed the responsibility of the Minister of Population. It's directly related to the Earth Live program. The Global Estonia programme also deals with returnees. There are two directions: one is referring to Estonians who left Estonia, who have left here in previous years, after the second weather war or even earlier, and have found their home, their job, their family happiness elsewhere. We don't really call them back anymore, because they don't want to. We contribute to them as ambassadors of the good will of the Estonian state in the countries where they are located. They have certainly stood up for Estonia for all these decades, and they will be happy to continue to do so if the state keeps in touch with them and makes a sufficient contribution to the maintenance of the Estonian economy elsewhere. But as far as Finnish Estonians are concerned, there are more signs of wanting to return than Minister Järvik has indicated. People associate themselves with Estonia and would like to return here. So we are paying more attention to this issue. Of course, there must be an action plan to fund all activities. We will not take action on the basis of emotions or anyone's statements. Everything has to be thought out first and the program ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U90	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U91	Next, Mart Võrguship asks, the answer is Mr Kert Kingo, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the state budget for 2020 and the resolution of the last mile of the broadband network. The demand to solve the problem of the last mile of the broadband network is high both in remote areas of Estonia and in dense settlements near the capital. My question is, how are we going to solve the last mile problem? Has the construction of the network already started with the support of the State and several users planned to be reached in this and in the coming years? As demand is high, there should also be enough money in the state budget, but if you look at the explanatory memorandum to the draft State Budget Act 2019, we can see that 10 million were planned for this, but the new draft State Budget Act 2020 provides for 4.1 million euros. Why has this money been reduced? Does this mean that solving the last mile problem is no longer a priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U93	Thank you for your question. Solving the last mile problem is a priority. In fact, it would need EUR 100 million. Right now, this year we have 20 million to use. This will be dealt with. This activity was hindered by the fact that, in the meantime, land purchase and ownership problems arose. Elering must have won this competition and started working on it. That's not what I can and probably they can predict, too -- I guess it's the one who started to develop it -- by what date it'll be ready and how many households will be covered with the 2 000s they have. But it's still a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U94	Thank you. Mart Networker, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U95	The state budget for 2020 has 4.1 million, not 20 million or 2000, as you put it. So what's going to do with the 4.1 million? And where has the 10 million, which was in the explanatory memorandum to the 2019 State Budget Act, gone?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U96	Thank you for your question. Yeah, 20,000 was a glitch, actually 20 million. This is the money already allocated in previous periods, which we had, but precisely because there were property disputes concerning the parcels from which the broadband network should pass could not have been used earlier. And in total, 20 million is the amount that is currently being directly directed towards the last mile project.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U97	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U98	Thank you! In your answer to my previous question concerning the US and Chinese trade tariffs, you said that it would be extremely irresponsible of you to say a firm position at the moment, because there are no effects at the moment, nothing specifically decided. However, as far as I know, the tariffs applied to trade between America and China over the last few years are hundreds of billions of dollars. There are indeed last-minute negotiations now to prevent this next round. This is not some small disagreement that is being dealt with, but a fact that has actually already been born, which has a rather wide-ranging impact on the global economy. The IMF also made this clear in its global growth forecast yesterday. As a result, however, I will repeat the question. Could you enlighten the honourable Riigikogu about what you think the impact of this trade war on Estonian business? And if you don't know it, then you can honestly say you don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U99	Thank you for your question. I'm not saying I don't know. There is an overview of what discussions have been in the European Union. And unlike what you have expressed here, according to my review, a solution to the tensions is being sought. After all, these tensions are also partly due to the fact that America has left this association in the WTO and... I mean, it did not leave, but it stopped working at the WTO, and this part of the WTO was very much regulating these trade relations. But according to the information provided to me, there is still a plan to reduce these tensions with negotiation. I still cannot say here now that this is the case and we are drawing our own conclusions and moving forward. We have to wait for the conclusions there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U100	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U101	Next, Heiki Kranich asks and answers the Foreign Trade and Information Technology Minister Kert Kingo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U102	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have caused some internal confusion about the sharing of information and the organisation of work in your area of administration. Through the press, we've learned that your advisor, Viive Aasma, is quitting this Friday. He has been very critical of EAS and has stated explicitly that corruption is rampant there. However, you have spoken here today about EAS in a very positive way. I would like to know that since Viive Asma claims that you know very well about his suspicions, have you implemented any kind of supervision of the EAS, ordered audits, investigations, whatever? Or do you think everything in EAS is okay and your outgoing advisor is just lying?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U103	Thank you for your question. As far as I'm concerned, Viive Aasma, let's say, a misunderstanding with the EAS has passed through the DA's office. The prosecutor's office has assessed the case and found that there is no element of corruption in this activity. The state prosecutor's office has also taken the same position. In a situation where the prosecutor's office has established that there is no corruption, to conduct its own investigation independently, as if not trusting the prosecution's position, it is certainly not reasonable. I'm sure we have different experiences with Viive Asma in relation to EAS. His problem has started in 2017 and he has been in much contact with them, my first contacts with EAS began in May 2019. It also explains our different vision of the matter. I have had positive experiences, and my aim is to make the EAS more efficient and reliable for businesses. This is a key priority. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U104	Thank you. Heiki Kranich, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U105	I just want a yes or no answer. In short, you haven't initiated any surveillance activities on EAS?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U106	Thank you for your question. I just indicated that the DA's office has been working through these materials, that the initial operations have been carried out and that it has come to the conclusion that there has been no violation. I have no reason and no need to duplicate the work of the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U107	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U108	Thank you. It is a very positive surprise, Madam Secretary, that you trust the DA's office and the EAS. The main character of the deep state, as the prosecutor's office has been in your party's mythology, has now gained trust! And for EAS, you've also said things that put them somewhere deep in the country. You've said something like that, maybe I'm wrong in words, but basically, it's just that there's been some confusion in the EAS. What kind of confusion did you have in mind? Is it settled now, and you've changed your judgment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U109	Thanks for the questions. Well, I'm not going to specify who actually said that phrase, but I'm going to find out what these messes are. We all know the confusion with the granting of grants to the Ärma farm, as the people call it. It's been a mess for a while, and it can't be denied that it's been. That's exactly what I meant when I said there's been a big mess at EAS.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U110	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U111	We have come to question 11 by Mr Sõerd, Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology, Kert Kingo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U112	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Soon it will be three years since Jüri Ratas visited Tallinn City Hall as the leader of the previous government. Half the government office was with me, the cameras were flashing, the cameras were tingling. The government office expressed its willingness to clean up the city hall, where the conference centre and concert hall were to come. A major strategic investment programme was launched, and the city hall was at the top of it. And now it has been said for three years that there will be no State aid authorisation from the European Commission. As has been done, at the end of September it was announced that a positive decision will come from the European Commission immediately, in a few weeks' time. In the meantime, when September went over by October, a new plan came up: an opera house will be made into the main part of this building. The government will discuss this tomorrow. In my understanding, this means that the material and baseline data contained in the application for a State aid authorisation submitted to the European Commission must be re-examined. Whether the whole process of applying for a State aid permit now starts at zero or can continue in any way, it will in any case mean dragging. Today, the conference office has made a statement that if the establishment of a conference centre continues to be delayed, we will lose a lot of money in writing a long story about the poor situation of conference tourism. Since you are responsible for this matter, I ask you that if the cabinet starts discussing the opera house tomorrow, what is your position when you go to the study session?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U113	Thank you for your question. You yourself have made it clear that this debate will come tomorrow. Tomorrow, the form in which the opera house should be integrated with the conference centre will be clarified, and as of now, I will not be able to shape my opinion. I don't have any information on that. Tomorrow we'll discuss it, and tomorrow we'll find out. The second question was whether the process of applying for a State aid authorisation now needs to start again in the European Union. I cannot answer that either now, and for the reason that we have not yet decided anything. I can answer these questions once a decision has come when we have an understanding of how things are moving forward. We can act accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U114	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U115	Of course I would have a lot of more specific questions, but I'm asking as much as the format allows here. The previous government of Jüri Ratas announced years ago that construction and 2019 renovation would be completed in 2018. But I ask you that next year's budget doesn't have a cent in the city hall line, and perhaps 20 million euros have been written to 2021. I'm kind of embarrassed to understand these numbers now. The total cost of designing this complex is EUR 10 to 20 million. What is the 20 million in 2021 line: is it the building money or is it the design money?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U116	Thank you for your question. It is true that this country's allocation of 20 million has shifted to 2021, precisely because we have not yet had a decision from the European Union and we cannot plan an undertaking for the next year if we do not have that position. This 20 million covers a wide range of costs. The first project is done, the specification project is coming, it depends again on what happens to the opera house. These are preparatory activities and some of these preparatory activities can also be classified under construction activities. However, progress is still unclear at the moment, precisely because it is only tomorrow that the government will discuss the issue of the opera house. So far, we had the knowledge that the opera house would come as a separate building somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U117	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I do not want to say directly whether this project is bad or good. I want to ask you if you're ready for a long decision. The history of discussing the fate of this object is not three years long, but it begins from the beginning of this century. If you remember, every time before the elections, the mayor of Tallinn came out and said that investors were about to exist. In the meantime, they even went to America and tried to solve this problem. What about you from the minister's point of view? Businesses, including tourism organisers, have said that we need a large conference centre. Some operators have also said that if the State were to support their investment in this centre, this object would already be built. Are you ready to discuss this issue tomorrow to find the fastest and most sensible solution for Estonia? You will be able to go down in history with your proposals, which will enable this object to be completed quickly. If the private sector invests a certain amount in the conference centre, as co-financing for the country, it would certainly be clearly cheaper than the project currently planned. Are you ready to make this proposal tomorrow in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U119	Thank you for your question. First of all, since tourism is one of my areas of activity in the tourism sector, it is also the direction for the development of conference tourism, it is certainly very important for us to solve the problem of the conference centre. There should be a large conference centre in Estonia through which our tourism can be revived. So I don't see why I should delay this. I'm trying to do it as fast as I can. But I don't know about tomorrow. I am still stressing: tomorrow I will find out more about what is in the material. I don't have any information about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U120	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U121	Next is the opportunity to ask a question on Raimond Kaljulaid. The respondent is Mr Kert Kingo, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister! My question concerns the development of the field of artificial intelligence. It is increasingly being used both in companies and in the public sector for the provision of public services. However, there are also those who warn that the widespread use of artificial intelligence means not only a risk to privacy, equal treatment, etc. In this context, there is growing talk at European level about the need for proactive regulation in the area of artificial intelligence. I wonder what your personal position is. Do you consider it necessary to regulate the area of artificial intelligence in a proactive and more precise manner, or do you think that this should be achieved later? I am grateful if you will specify your position on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U123	Thank you for your question. Artificial intelligence is undoubtedly a very important tool to activate entrepreneurial activity, especially in a situation where we have a shortage of labour. And, as you rightly pointed out, there is a great deal of legislation to ensure that no one's interests are harmed by the introduction of artificial intelligence. And that's what we're counting on. I have very much supported the use of artificial intelligence, but I also believe that regulations must be very precisely defined in this area, namely the protection of people's rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U124	Thank you. Specific question, Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U125	Thank you. Thank you, Madam Minister, for a very good answer. I am pleased that you really appreciate this area. My point is: have you met representatives of Estonian companies involved in the development of artificial intelligence? How do you see how the country can support the development of this sector? Just by way of comment, as far as regulation is concerned, the Working Group on Artificial Intelligence created by the Estonian Government has found that at this stage at least there is no direct need for fundamental changes to the laws in Estonia. Perhaps you could further specify what you think should be more specific in Estonia. We don't really know exactly how artificial intelligence will be used in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U126	Thank you for your question. I've had meetings, including regular meetings with representatives of the IT alliance. We have different committees in which I participate. For example, I will mention the E-Estonian Council, where we recently also discussed the subject of artificial intelligence and the possibilities in this area. A very interesting topic was the use of artificial intelligence in medicine. The medical sector is known to be very sensitive to the use of personal data. At the same time, we all understand that it is a helpful tool for each person, even in identifying his or her health threats and risks. So I see a lot of possibilities. This was just one example, the artificial intelligence has a great many possibilities. I've also been seeing the so-called space people, and I can see how these opportunities are being implemented there. So the areas in which artificial intelligence can be used are well-to-well different, starting with a traffic count on the intersections of everyday life to map their load. Well, the details, but there's a lot of help.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U127	Thank you. There are no further questions on this subject. I'm gonna stop dealing with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U128	Next is Signe Kivi's question to Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Kert Kingole. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You have really been in office for six months, almost six months since 16 May. During this period, other members of the government have had to answer questions about your government at government press conferences. I ask you today to introduce to the Riigikogu these new important projects and other activities that you have started during your term of office. I am not talking about the Estonian Entrepreneurship Growth Strategy 2014-2020 report submitted by you to the government meeting, nor about the regulation amending information systems. So, your new important initiatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U130	Thank you for your question. I'm trying to fit in three minutes now. Firstly, one important activity has been to convene a security review team for the electronic electoral system. This is precisely with the aim of making the e-choice system understandable, understandable and more reliable for potential voters so that the percentage of participation in e-elections and the total number of voters are higher. There's room for improvement. I have also been active in the work of Eesti Post. In this regard, I have met representatives of various trade unions and discussed raising the quality of universal postal services. We have been very active in taking concrete steps towards solving these general problems. We have the analysis ordered, plus the internal resources we're still channeling to the pay increase of the postal staff first. We have also discussed with different ministries how any new tasks could be assigned to a postal worker. At present, a postal worker is returning a pension home, perhaps it is possible that he will also be bringing medicine to people who do not live close enough to some of the centres. I have also signed a regulation to support the placement of large investors' money in the Estonian manufacturing industry sector. This represents a total of more than EUR 1 million and is supported by encouraging companies to invest in new production units and in the development of high value-added products. The government has approved my proposal, i.e. my proposal, by which we changed the regulation of maintaining state information systems. As a result, a new self-service environment has been introduced. In the future, institutions will be able to use trust services provided by the National Information System Agency, which are available free of charge to companies and institutions, alongside paid trust services. It will also make it easier to join the X-Road. I have also signed a regulation that allows small and medium-sized enterprises in Estonia to receive support for transnational R &amp; D through the Eurostars-2 programme. Participation in this programme will enable transnational research and development to be carried out and the project will provide information on foreign markets and thereby enhance competitiveness for export. This amount is EUR 2.5 million. These are the main issues that I have already been able to address.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U131	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U132	Thank you. Madam Secretary, there isn't much of it. One minister could talk about his work much more than he has discussed and that he has signed one or convened one committee. At the same time, I believe that several members of the Riigikogu find it very sympathetic that you praised the e-election and want to expand its use. Tell me a little bit more about how your attitude has turned positive. I have little doubt that when you called this committee together, the atmosphere was quite different, your goal seemed to be different. In Spain, a member of the Commission expressed his views before the Commission had met, and they were critical of the e-elections. But please describe how this work has progressed and how your attitudes have become so positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U133	Thank you for your question. As far as postivity is concerned, I have always believed that e-elections are an instrument that also allows Estonians who are not permanently in their home country to participate in their national activities, including the electoral process. After all, today's society is that people work in different countries and travel a lot; it is a universal tool that allows us to keep in touch with Estonia. As for the working group, I'm sure you've heard some of it, these minutes have been public, they've been published. The purpose of the group was to bring together indisputable specialists in their field who have created this system, specialists who complement and develop it on a daily basis, as well as specialists who are critical of it. Since the main objective in a well-rounded sense is still to make elections secure, this is now priority number 1 worldwide, so that all IT services must be made as secure as possible, even in terms of cybersecurity, in terms of digital security, that is what we are dealing with right now. There can't be any security holes. It's very simple and generally explained. But thank you for your question and your interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U134	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please! You don't want to ask me a question? Then, since Jürgen Ligi has already been able to ask his question and all members of the Riigikogu have only one option, I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U135	Let us go to the next question that Urmas Kruus will put to Kert Kingo, Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister! At the beginning of the round, I had the opportunity to ask about the possibility of life in the country, also bearing in mind the activities of Eesti Post. Why does this matter? This is important in a very long perspective, because it is more broadly about whether people want and can live in the countryside when the volume of services is pulled together in one place or another. I'm listening to you and your answers. You referred to the fact that you don't have to worry about how the newspapers arrive. If they come in once a week, you'll deliver them. But that's all you care about. I have read from your answers that Eesti Post will raise the price and the partners have said that this price increase could be lower. If I look at the losses of Eesti Post in the last three years, I can see that it is several million. However, the State will continue to withdraw dividends in the same way and the subsidy has not increased. We all know that in order to operate in the countryside at all, the postal service has been so heavily optimised that people in certain areas will receive the newspaper at night. It reminds me of a movie called Tomorrow's News, in this context, you might want to talk about the "Last News." What have you actually proposed? You referred to your proposal that Eesti Post analyse all its fields of activity. But what do you expect to get from this study? And do you think that postal services are like any other service for the people of Estonia, or is their use a human right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U137	Thank you for your question. First of all, I would correct the factual error: I made it very clear that we believe that six days a week the newspaper ordered must reach the person in the morning, and that is what the Estonian Post guarantees. If the page still appears on six days a week, the person must receive the page he ordered in the morning on each of these days. In addition, I specify that Eesti Post is a legal name, the name of the group is Omniva, which is a brand. There are five companies. Some of them, like the parcel terminal business, are very profitable, while UPT, or universal postal service, is loss-making. During the analysis, as I mentioned earlier, we are looking at these five companies over their revenues, their costs, their results, and on this basis, we can make decisions on how we will proceed, which companies could coexist and which cannot coexist, whether to move forward in the collection or whether to branch out in any way. After all, Omnival has recently completed a very large logistics center. Discussions will continue. I see different ways in which we can proceed after analysis. However, I am sure to send a message that, in order for people to be in their home places which are not located in Tallinn or Harjumaa or in Tartu or, say, in Pärnu, where all services are more accessible and for example parcel machines are available, home delivery via Eesti Post must remain. There are other people who write letters, whose communication means is physical writing letters, and there are people who order newspapers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U138	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U139	Thank you. In the Committee on Finance, you answered my question, where the Estonian Post has made a mistake, that you are just starting to examine it. But this question came from your statement that the focus of Eesti Post is completely wrong. You didn't tell me where this focus is and where it should be, you said the focus was completely wrong. And when I asked you how you knew it was a lie, you said you were still investigating it. Now you've examined. My understanding of the matter is that all the inconveniences associated with the mail must actually be paid off by the government. But it can't be that a public limited company runs some other business next to it, and then cross-subsidises home delivery and mail delivery. Tell me what you intend to do to normalise this situation! In fact, the state should not have to deal with the parcel trade at all, but if it does, it cannot be the source of cross-subsidisation. What's your solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U140	Thank you for your question. I would like to clarify this incorrect expression. There will be no cross-subsidisation in Eesti Post. The state withdraws dividends, but through the state budget, part of the money is redirected back, and internally... [[Something's been commented on in the hall.]] Yeah, it is, but there's no cross-subsidisation because the law doesn't allow it. For the focus, I'd say this. You indicated that I've been saying that the focus is off. Yeah, I gotta admit, the focus was mostly on parcel terminals. At the same time, it was forgotten that in rural areas people do not have a parcel machine across the street or somewhere else ten metres away, perhaps tens of kilometres away. And that's putting the focus in the right direction, that we still have to make sure that the mailman delivers the requested press and the letters.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U141	Thank you. A more specific question from Urmas Kruus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I certainly did not claim that it is your wish to organise the transport of mail on land so that the mail is transported once a week. I was referring to the fact that if the Estonian Post raises the price, people will have to decide at some point whether or not to give up their orders because the price of delivery at home in the order price will be so high. And the fact that orders may decrease is a wider problem than whether or not the page reaches people's homes. There are many questions relating to the receipt of information. But I'm not suggesting that the newspaper business should be paid for. I was rather wondering if you had discussed solutions that would allow the loss-making activities to continue, so that the Estonian state could deliver the mail home and the delivery of the newspapers would not become unreasonablely expensive. It is difficult to organise in sparsely populated areas because, for objective reasons, unit costs are inevitably higher. My second question is: what have you said to the Prime Minister, to the government in this context, where the increase in prices brings additional money, but does not allow the service to be provided of sufficient quality, nor does it allow the mailmen to be paid a reasonable salary? They just don't have enough. I agree with the previous speaker who said that it is the responsibility of the state to ensure a high-quality postal service. I referred earlier to the fact that tax letters brought about one and a half million losses, as I read in the paper, I hope I understood that correctly. If that is the case, we will conclude that something is wrong with this system if it generates additional losses at all times. What have you done in this area, and is this six months not too long to explain what needs to be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U143	Thank you for your question. Together with the Prime Minister, we have discussed the current situation and possible solutions with the management of Eesti Post. You're saying I've been doing this for six months. I would like to point out once again that the Estonian Post Group, or the Omniva Group, belongs to five companies whose economic situation is different: some are profitable, some are loss-making. And in all the discussions where the Prime Minister and I have tried to find a solution, we have found that the only way is to order an analysis on which decisions can be made. As we deepen the structure that I dealt with, it turned out that they have built the structure in such a way that, for example, there can be no simple divisions or privatisations. That is how this analysis needs to be carried out. In order to be able to do it in three minutes, I had to explain it so briefly. Unfortunately, simple and less time-consuming solutions could not be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U144	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U145	And we will be able to touch on today's last question. Eerik-Niles Kross asks, says Foreign Trade and Information Technology Minister Kert Kingo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U146	Good manager! Good minister! Unfortunately, we have spoken very little about information technology today. You are probably aware, as minister in this area, that one of the most important developments in the world of information technology is the introduction of quantum technology. It's called the quantum revolution, where the Chinese, Russians, Americans and Europeans want to be all leaders. For the European Union, this has been declared a priority axis, the development of the quantum internet, the first aim is to reach it and so on. This is important for Estonia, as you probably know, because the introduction of quantum technology would make the digital signature of our ID card all the technology on which the e-state relies completely unusable or, let's say, hopelessly obsolete. I have such a concern that it seems that Estonia has missed the train in this process or at least does not show much initiative. In order to be concrete: in June this year, Bucharest had the European Union, one could say, a summit in this area. A digital alliance was established, a country leader group aimed at building a quantum Internet and planning the whole process. There are now 10 European Union countries. Estonia did not participate there. My question is: do you in principle share the view that the quantum revolution is one of the most important developments in information technology today? Why didn't you go to that meeting? Why has Estonia not joined, and are we going to join, or have we decided to stay out of this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U147	Thank you for your question. Very good, specific question. The Internet and all information technology are an area that develops not in years or months, but, I dare say, in hours and minutes. All this strategy, with which and when Estonia will join, will be created, trying to be up-to-date. I don't know what to do in this direction, but I don't know what to do here. However, I think that work on our strategy is going quietly before it becomes a beautifully concrete decision or a contract. However, such discussions, where this is a conference, are generally at the level of officials, because IT is a very specific area that a person needs to know in very detail. I certainly am not an IT top specialist, just as the Minister of Social Affairs does not have to be a brain surgeon, nor do I have to be a specialist. That is why such conferences are usually attended by our deputy chancellor, who is an IT specialist. He will be there to discuss these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U148	Thank you. Unfortunately, our time is up for this time. Thank you! In time, there is no continuation: the question is two minutes, the answer is three, we do not have five minutes, unfortunately. But I thank all the questioners, I thank all the ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U149	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 5th working week session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U150	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I will hand over two draft decisions that we wish to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe'.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U151	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted two draft decisions and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U152	We can go to today's agenda. Today there is one item on the agenda, this is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. I call Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Environment Committee, as rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Second reading of Bill 54. There have been a number of important events between the two readings. Firstly, the deadline for transposition of the directive has been missed, which was on 9 October, so the Commission had to propose to change the date of entry into force of the draft, which was initially due to be on 9 October. Since the government gave it to the Riigikogu proceedings too late, it was not possible to process it on that day. In addition, there has been a significant change concerning... I see the smokers here are discussing other questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U154	Attention, let's listen to the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U155	In addition, the subject at first reading has been the exception in Article 10c of the Directive, i.e. the possibility to use the climate units allocated to the country for investment in fossil energy. The government did not yet have a position on this at the time, but on 30 September, when it was due to inform the European Commission of the Member State's wish to avail itself of this Article 10c derogation, the government decided, gratitudefully, that Estonia would not apply for it. A perfectly environmentally friendly step. As a result, all our climate units, which have been allocated to the state, have also decided that the modernisation fund created by this draft will not be increased by auction. Two amendments were then received by the deadline, both tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. It must be said that very good amendments, as if they had written themselves. They were discussed by the Commission, including at its meeting on 8 October, with the results fixed in Protocol 16 to the sitting. From this point of view, I'll give you a brief overview. One amendment concerned the possibility of using the so-called 10c exemption, i.e. to invest climate units in fossil energy, provided for by § 1651 of the draft. The amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to the Commission provided for the removal of the corresponding provisions from the draft. Since the Government of the Republic decided not to use this exception, it is not necessary to provide for this regulation in the new Air Protection Act. The representative of the Government of the Republic did not support this amendment, considering that although the Government has not made use of this exception, there might be a government that wants to use it, and then there could be a point in the law. That was not a very convincing argument. The Commission decided unanimously to support the amendment of the Social Democratic Party Group, which excludes from the draft § 1651 and some other additions related to the same section. The second amendment concerned the extent to which these climate units are used to meet the climate objectives. Indeed, the directive that we are transposing with this draft obliges the country to use at least 50% of the proceeds from auctioning units to meet its climate objectives. There are different things, ways and branches where it can be invested. It is possible to heat houses, it is possible to buy electric trains, it is possible to partially compensate for renewable energy charges, for example, by buying renewable energy capacity. There's a lot of opportunities. The remaining 50% is the right for Member States to simply use their budgets for general revenue, i.e. for other budgetary expenditure, to patch up the budget holes. It is true that Estonia, like a number of other countries, has so far largely used the minimum prescribed in the directive: 50% we have focused on meeting the climate targets, while the rest we have covered other budgetary expenditure. The amendment proposed wisely by the Group of the Social Democratic Party was due to the global climate crisis and the developments that are in the world, as well as to the European Union's proposals in the context of climate neutrality, which the Government of the Republic has gratefully supported, and to which the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs approved on Monday, that, in view of the objectives currently agreed by the Riigikogu on the fundamentals of climate policy until 2050, we are talking about increasing ambition in the event of an agreement on climate neutrality. As the SEI report that has been said shows, in fact, in order to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, we should significantly accelerate investment to meet the climate targets over the next decade and start with what will bring the fastest victory. For example, the insulation of apartment buildings and other buildings provides energy savings on the one hand, saving money, on the other hand, enabling climate targets to be met. That is why we proposed that the state use 100% of these climate units to meet environmental targets in the next decade, so that Estonia can make these important investments from the funds that are intended for this purpose. After all, these climate units are actually designed to make environmental investments. But this proposal did not go so well. This proposal was also not supported by the Government of the Republic, arguing that, on the contrary, it is true that according to the law, the government uses at least 50%, i.e. it can also use more. Nobody prohibits the government from using more, that is true, but experience shows that at least 50% in practice has meant exactly 50%. That is why we propose in law that the government should use 100%, or significantly more. The price of the matter is almost EUR 700 million in the context of the decade or, let's say, roughly, according to current calculations to meet the climate targets. But the position of the government is, of course, understandable, because the approval of this amendment also requires, in fact, that the country's budgetary strategy cannot use these funds to cover other government expenditure decisions. This will undoubtedly not please the Government of the Republic. It did not delight the coalition members in the Committee on the Environment or Heiki Kranich, who voted against this amendment with the argument that flexibility is a good thing, and yet we somehow meet these climate goals exactly how, it remained unclear. The Commission decided to refer this draft to a second reading today and, if the second reading is completed today, to propose sending it to the third reading by 22 October, next Tuesday, but whether this is the case depends, of course, on the decision of the Riigikogu. These last decisions on readings and dates were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U156	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In this Question Time, we have had a talk with ministers about the possibilities for Estonia to contribute to climate goals. I'm sure that was a good suggestion. Would you give members of the Riigikogu, before we vote on the amendment, an overview of our current state of climate neutrality in comparison with other European countries? How are we in the tables?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U158	Thank you both for the question and for supporting this amendment in the Committee on the Environment. As far as our position is concerned, the situation is bad, briefly speaking, but it claims that there are important qualifications. Indeed, setting the goals of Kyoto and beyond the Paris climate agreement will be based on 1990, the last year of the Soviet Union, when Estonia's environmental burden and greenhouse gas emissions were very high. In the next few years, they collapsed, and now we can say that you can see that our emissions have fallen by more than half compared to 1990. In fact, in the last ten to fifteen years, they have either been stable or rather slightly increased. So we have not actually improved significantly in terms of the environment. If we look at our environmental footprint, for example, per economic unit, per unit of GDP, which shows how emissions and pollution-intensive our economy is, we are either the first in the world or still at the top of the world, among the first two or three. Our oil shale energy, of course, has a key role to play, which gives about 70% of all greenhouse gas emissions, but on the other hand, if we look at energy consumption, the energy savings already mentioned are certainly the subject where Estonia has very, very big challenges, which concern the housing fund, the waste of energy in this case, but also public sector buildings. This is where, in fact, the same SEI report clearly states that investment should be made now, from which there will be a huge saving of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. There are no technological issues like some other technology, which maybe will become available and feasible at all in 2030 or 2040. We have the insulation technology for houses, it is very well developed and we have years of experience through KredEx, how to do it very well. We need to put the money in there and do it now, but if we look at the priorities of the government, they're more in the way of taking the money away from it. It seems that hope is this: since the goal is far enough away, someday someone will work to reduce the size of the sow in practical life. I don't think that's very smart or reasonable. Let's take the simplest example that we can just say that what we're messing with this Ida-Virumaa is that the price of CO2 regulates whether or not it is produced there. In fact, this type of processes should be managed, in social terms, in order not to have the situation that we have had here at one point suddenly being discovered, oh-oh, you see, cannot produce, because the price of CO2 is high, now we have to lay off workers. Then the ministers rush there and pretend surprised, "Oh, my God! What happened now? How can we help? " In fact, it has been known for decades that this would happen. We need a strategic, long-term vision of how to gradually meet our environmental objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-16_U159	Thank you. No further questions. Do the members of the Riigikogu want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiations either, so we can go to the revision of the amendments. The first amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, proposed by the lead committee: to be disregarded. The second amendment, proposed by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, proposed by the lead committee: take full account. And the third amendment tabled by the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on the lead committee, also: take full account. We have examined all the amendments. As no proposal for interruption has been made, the second reading of the draft 54 has been completed. Thank you, colleagues. Today's session of the Riigikogu is closed. Closure of the sitting at 2.17 p.m.
