ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the seventh working week of the first plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U2	Due to the suspension of Kert Kingo's powers due to his appointment as a member of the Government of the Republic, including 17 May, Rein Suurkask, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, is established. Let's hear his oath. Rein Suurkask, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U3	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U4	Next, the oath of the member of the Riigikogu Signe Riisalo. Due to the end of the term of office of member of the Riigikogu Arto Asa, Ms Signe Riisalo became a member of the Riigikogu on 21 May. Let's hear his oath. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U5	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U6	The next thing you can do is deliver drafts and inquiries. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U7	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law on the denunciation of the European Convention on violence and other irregularities by viewers of football matches and other sporting events. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Secondly, the draft Act approving the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty concerning the accession of the Republic of Macedonia. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law ratifying the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on air traffic between and outside their territories. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Securities Market Act and other laws. And fifthly, the bill to amend the Tax Administration Act, the Courts Act and the Liquid Fuel Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when the last two draft laws are being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U8	Next, please, Siim Pohlak!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U9	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity by the Central Party, the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the People's Party of Isamaa, which aims to reduce the excise duties on 25% of beer, cider and spirits for the purpose of curbing border trade. Since ladies and gentlemen from the opposition have come up with the same idea, I hope you will also support the coalition's initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U10	Looks like there's no more drafts and no more questions. I have adopted six drafts on behalf of the Bureau. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their future procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! Currently 89 members of the Riigikogu are present, 12 are missing. Mr. Ligi, any questions? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U11	Mr. Chairman! We have a very peculiar agenda on the table. Please explain the logic that the Bureau has now begun to draw up the agendas. Traditionally, according to the old rules of procedure, we didn't have any drafts on Mondays. Now the bill is piled up mainly on Monday. What's the logic? In this way, it is very difficult for members of the Riigikogu to plan their time. I do not believe that this will benefit from the quality of the draft procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U12	Thank you. Yes, as you said, Monday was the day of the answer to questions. The previous composition amended these rules of procedure and the Bureau drew up the agenda according to how the committees have proposed to send matters for approval or rejection of the large hall. Jürgen Ligi, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U13	Thank you. My question is entirely substantive. Everyone can give a formal answer, but you are the chairman of the Riigikogu, you should be thinking along right now. The bill has now been piled up for one day, when the hearing always starts later than the other days, at three o'clock. I can admit that our group has already ruined its involvement by today, because we have another event ahead of us, we did not know the time to plan it like that. Does the board intend to disperse the drafts over working week days, or is it that Monday is a long day and the other days are short? It is a matter of substance; it is not a matter of spite. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U14	The drafts will be distributed, as I said, as proposed by the committees. And I don't think there's a lot of seven points one day. Jürgen, you should remember that we've discussed 30 points a day here, too, so it's a little funny to protest after seven. Our job is to deal with the bill in this hall. So thank you! Let's go! And, Mr. Jürgen, if you ask a question, I would also ask you to listen to the answer, not turn your back and start talking to your fellows. Now, on the agenda. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed to remove the third item from the agenda of the Thursday session of this working week, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' (16 OE) submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. So the third item on the agenda for the Thursday sitting goes out. Together with this amendment, I will vote on the agenda for the 7th working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. Thank you. There are 79 parliamentarians in favour, no votes against and no abstentions 1, no votes against and no votes against. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U15	We have reached the first item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Announcing the Members of the Council of the National Library of Estonia" submitted by the Committee on Culture. The rapporteur is Heidy Purga, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U16	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed the preparation of the draft appointment for the first reading of the members of the National Library of Estonia at its meeting on 13 May, attended by Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Katri Raik, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Vice-President Heidy Purga and Chairman Aadu Must. Due to the end of the term of office of the members of the Board of the National Library of Estonia and pursuant to § 8 (2) of the Estonian National Library Act, the Riigikogu decides to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the National Library of Estonia Signe Kivi, Mikhail Lotman and Peeter Rahnel, as well as the following recognised experts in the fields of work of the National Library of Estonia: Andres Kollist and Priit Pirsko. Mr Black proposed that the Commission approve the text of the draft decision and the explanatory memorandum, put it on the plenary agenda by 27 May and appoint Mr Purga as rapporteur on behalf of the Commission. The members of the Commission were consensually in agreement with the above points. The chairman of the committee noted that following the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the draft decision will be discussed at one reading and will be put to the final vote after the negotiations have ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U17	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Any member of the Riigikogu may ask one oral question. Looks like there's no questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups may speak. It seems that there is no wish for negotiations. In that case, I'll give you a hall call. Is everyone here and let's vote? No objections? Looks like we can vote. On the basis of § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the Council of the National Library of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft 21 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U18	The next item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Announcement of the Members of the Riigikogu of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council' presented by the Committee on Culture. Aadu Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is the second wagon of a train that has already begun to travel. The role of the Cultural Commission is to prepare decisions on a number of Council members in the field of culture. The preparation of this particular draft was quite simple. The Committee on Culture did not think that we were entitled to take advantage of any privileges. The draft has been negotiated with all the political groups, all the more so since, according to the law, our representation in the National Broadcasting Council is made up of representatives of all the political groups. And the representatives we propose are Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Valdo Randpere, Urmas Reitelmann and Marika Tuus-Laul. The Commission discussed this draft on 13 May, and all procedural decisions, both to put the draft on today's agenda and to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur, were adopted by consensus. I can also say that, yes, we proposed putting the draft on the agenda for the 27th day of the sitting, but that was the time proposed earlier. I would have talked further about the schedule of the procedure, but since Jürgen is no longer in the Chamber, I can't propose to him that we start a bill together to go back to the old regime. But we won't be billing by Monday. I have to catch Jürgen somewhere else to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U20	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to negotiate? No, it's not. In that case, after the hall call, the vote shall be taken. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. On the basis of § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council from the members of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. Thank you. There were 72 votes in favour, no respondents, no abstentions. Bill 19 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U21	Now we go to bill 20: the first reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint 'Members of the National Opera Council' submitted by the Committee on Culture. The rapporteur is Mr Aadu Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The next draft is the last wagon of the three-car train presented by the Committee on Culture today. We also discussed this draft on 13 May and heard the proposals of the various political groups on candidates before. The draft provides for members of the National Opera Board Enn Eesmaa, Helle-Moonika Helme and Urve Tiidus to be appointed members of the Riigikogu. The debate took place in a constructive and positive atmosphere; all members of the Commission felt that these were dignified candidates. And I dare say one additional piece: we think that it is not only good politicians, but also competent people in this area. I am reminded that Eri Klas had great joy in his time, of course it was one of the earlier compositions, that the members of the National Opera Board were men who really shared the matter, such as Enn Eesmaa. We have heard only good words about Urve Tiidus, so there should be no risk of conflict. We are asking for this bill to be supported; it is a very good draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U23	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Do the political groups want to initiate negotiations? No, it's not. Can we go to the final vote? Pursuant to § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the National Opera Council. Please take a stand and vote. Thank you. There were 67 delegates in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The 20th draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U24	Point four: First reading of the draft Act on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and amendment of the State Fees Act. Waitress Secretary of Finance Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U25	Dear Speaker! Dear Riigikogu! I come before you with a draft law amending the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and the Law on the Amendment of State Fees. The proposal, which is today at first reading, aims to change the requirements for the authorisation of the provider of the virtual currency exchange service and the provider of the virtual currency wallet service. The aim is to reduce the risk of money laundering, terrorist financing and other criminal activities linked to these services. The current regulation transposes the requirements of the Fifth Directive on the Prevention of Money Laundering. The problem to be solved by the bill has exponentially increased the number of permit applications in a situation where the FIU does not have the possibility to assess the suitability of the applicant in substance and actually control the activity of the licence holder in Estonia. The total number of applications for authorisation submitted to the FIU in 2018 was 1430. Authorisations related to the provision of services related to virtual currency were applied for in 1182, of which 629 were applications for the exchange of virtual currency against money and 553 were applications for the authorisation of the provider of the virtual currency wallet service. Under the Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Prevention Act, these persons are required to be subjects but are not financial institutions. According to the draft, the provider of virtual currency services must have its registered office, central administration and place of business in Estonia. If a foreign company is involved, it must open a branch in Estonia in order to apply for a permit. The FIU will check the background and suitability of the members of the company's management board when all licences are processed. To this end, the company must provide the necessary documentation when applying for a licence. There is currently no such control and the current law requires, for example, that when applying for a virtual currency licence, the company's general information, the type of service provided and the place of supply must be provided. The company's internal rules of procedure for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing must also be indicated. In addition, the draft raises the state fee for the authorisation of the virtual currency service provider and the financial institution from EUR 345 to EUR 3300. Authorisations with higher state fees are imposed on the provision of services at risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. As a result, the level of supervision to be carried out is higher. Higher state fees for providers of virtual currency services and financial institutions shall be established with the aim of covering the costs of the FIU in checking the background of data and persons in the application for authorisation, as well as in order to reduce the number of providers of virtual currency services. The FIU shall be granted a longer period to verify the data submitted together with the applications for authorisation and the background of the applicants: this period shall be extended from 30 working days to three months for all licences. For other licences, such as pawnshops, company service providers, traders of precious metals, the state fee will be EUR 345. The law enters into force in general. A company that already has an authorisation has until the end of this year, which is 31 December 2019, to bring itself into compliance with the requirements of the law and submit additional data to the FIU in accordance with this draft. I ask the Riigikogu to support the bill! For my part, I would add that we all know that money laundering and criminal money are something that is constantly looking for a new place in the world to legalize itself. We all know that Estonia has also been stuck with it. The steps taken in Estonia have created a situation where new places and new opportunities are being sought. Simply put, the risk moves away from banking. And it is now quite clear that this risk is moving into the field of virtual currencies, and if we remain laying eggs here, we will soon have the following very sour consequences. So I ask the Riigikogu to support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U26	Thank you. Now all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to put two oral questions to the rapporteur. Question time is one minute. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law explains very well that the number of applications for authorisation related to the provision of virtual currency services increased exponentially last year. There are probably not yet quite precise data available for this year. Here's what I'm gonna ask. How great can the withdrawal of applicants for these authorisations be caused by this draft? Does this number fall by, say, half or a quarter? Has anyone made any predictions about this? And perhaps you will also present the context: what is the situation in Latvia, Lithuania and Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U28	Yes, we predict that the number of licence applications will decrease by at least half. And we also predict that a considerable number of companies currently operating will not continue after they have to meet the new conditions by the end of the year. But if I look for this number now, I think there's about 390 permits left. Let us be honest with you that no one action will finally fix the world, but the bill has created several ways of tightening up this control, of asking better about the background. There are also grounds for refusing authorisation. So let's put these requirements in place! We expect a significant reduction in the number of companies that have these licences, and in this case the resource will remain better controlled. But we're assuming that this is going to decrease significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U29	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! An important area, an important subject! I have this question: what is the ability of the FIU to implement these new requirements, especially in relation to background checks and suitability assessments?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U31	The money-laundering data bureau is looking forward to this amendment. It's a signal from them that it's badly needed. And thanks to a significantly increased state fee, they should also have the capacity to comply with this law carefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U32	Urve Tiidus, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U33	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to the last part of my first question. Is it possible to compare the severity of these regulations with Latvia, Lithuania and Finland? Are we becoming more like them or tougher than they are, or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U34	I cannot say right now that I have an exact comparison with my neighbours. It is clear, however, that there is looser regulation in Estonia. For example, in Finland, traders with virtual currency are subject to financial supervision; in Estonia they do not exist, and as a result of this legislative amendment, they do not yet become subject to financial supervision. So we haven't gone the same way as Finland. But I can't answer about Latvia and Lithuania.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U35	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U36	Thank you. I have a further question. Money is certainly important, but I ask you this way: how many experts on the Estonian market do you think there are with such a profile who can do this job?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U37	I do not have an overview of how many experts there are in Estonia. The manning of the Money Laundering Data Bureau is an issue that, of course, falls within the field of the Ministry of the Interior. As far as I know, they've always wanted more resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U38	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U39	Honourable Minister of Finance! You indicated that the Financial Intelligence Unit's Central Criminal Police is looking forward to this legislative amendment. The Financial Intelligence Unit is known to expect a legislative amendment concerning the same proof. Do you have a clear position on what to do with inverted proof? And is there any plans to discuss this in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U40	Thank you. A very important issue indeed, it has been raised repeatedly. We know that, in the event of a reversed burden of proof, we will have a very serious constitutional breach. In essence, people must begin to prove that they are not guilty, not the state must begin to prove that they are guilty. This is a very fundamental violation or violation of the fundamental principle of the rule of law. I can't say the coalition has agreed to go that way, but the subject is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U41	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U42	Thank you. Dear waitress, When I looked at the draft, I thought it was due to another euro directive. Can your words that Finland has gone another way make it so clear that it is a domestic regulation? Is this something special and unique to Estonia alone?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U43	No, this is not due to a specific directive, but, of course, there are separate directives on money laundering at all, which give us the framework. The reason for this draft is that there has been a specific press release in one area for the operation of companies with a completely unknown and uncontrollable background in Estonia. If you open more backgrounds or go into details, we have such a very Estonian-specific thing as e-residency. This means that anyone, and from anywhere, is Vietnam or a European country or a Latin American state, can quite easily act as a legal person in Estonia and, through this, enter the European Union with its own money. There is a very clear press in this area and this is an Estonian-specific solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U44	Thanks to the waitress! Looks like there's no more questions. Next, I would like to ask Mr Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, representative of the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U45	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 14 May, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the preparation of a draft law amending the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and the State Fees Act for the first reading. The Commission had been invited to present the draft by Minister of Finance Martin Helme and Deputy Secretary General Märten Ross. The Commission took the following decisions by consensus: to appoint a speaker to the draft before you, to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Monday 27 May, to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 3 June. And on 28 May, the draft will be discussed with the relevant stakeholders in order to get an overview of the nature and use of the virtual currency as a whole and to identify possible problems and bottlenecks in the case of regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U46	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. In that case, I will open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups may take the floor. Looks like there's no wish to negotiate. Pursuant to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the first reading of the draft 8 has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U47	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act, the Waste Act amending the Waste Act and the Waste Act and related other laws. Waitress Secretary of the Environment Rene Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U48	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft law on the amendment of the Waste Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, which transposes two European Union directives into Estonian law and eliminates the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission. As a result of the amendment to the Directive, the Waste Act extends the list of equipment which is not subject to a ban on placing on the market because of the hazardous substances they contain. Such equipment shall include vileys. Lead is used in the construction of whistleores, which generates characteristic sound and is not used as an alternative. Since most of the vileores stand in one place for centuries and are very rarely replaced, the benefits of replacing lead would be very limited if they were included. It shall also specify which power-driven machinery is made available exclusively for economic and professional purposes for non-road mobile machinery to which the prohibition on placing on the market does not apply. Such equipment is, for example, cleaning machines used in supermarkets. The deadline for the entry into force of the Act is 12 June 2019 and 22 July 2019. In addition, the Waste Act will be aligned with the Directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment. Since the European Commission launched infringement proceedings on 25 January 2019 on the lack of transposition of the Directive, the term "electronics waste' is now included in the Waste Act and the terms "medical device' and "in vitro diagnostic medical device' are specified. Since the amendments proposed by the draft are mainly of a technical nature and relate to the clarification and inclusion of concepts, the implementation of the draft does not entail any environmental impact or significant impact in other areas. The key word is a routine amendment that brings the law into line with EU directives. The draft does not entail any additional costs or liabilities for the State. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U49	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Vilja Thomas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Somehow, it got to the ear that we're actually trying to protect or improve the environment by changing all kinds of waste laws. However, you said such a sentence that the adoption of this law would have no impact on the environment. How am I supposed to understand that? I think it's as if this law is supposed to affect the environment, protect it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U51	Thank you. We were talking here, for example, about whistles. They have been in place for centuries and have not been considered reasonable to replace them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U52	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U53	Thank you. I have a question about costs. The explanatory memorandum states that the target group affected by the draft is producers of electrical and electronic equipment. At the same time, it is also correct for costs, and the explanatory memorandum must contain this information, so that the local government or the state does not incur any costs. The cost recovery is, in fact, the producer's concern. What are the costs? Do you have an overview of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U54	Thank you, good questioner! I will specify this and we will answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U55	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Next, please contact the chairman of the Environment Committee, Erki Savisaare.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U56	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed this draft on Thursday 16 May. A review of the law was provided by Kaupo Heinma, who explained that the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings on the poor transposition of the WEEE Directive and that this draft will bring waste law into line with European Union law. We were wondering about some substances, for example, which equipment uses butylbenzyl phthalate. We learned that this is a compound used in plastics, which can be found, for example, in toys produced in China and electrical wiring to ensure elasticity. There was a question of whether the change concerned only church ores, and it turned out that it also concerned whistles, which may contain lead, but which would otherwise be banned on the market. When looking for an alternative, it was found that without lead, organs do not sound so good, and therefore such a small exception is made. The Commission decided by consensus to propose a deadline of 31 May at 10 a.m. for amendments, to appoint a rapporteur here and to discuss this draft in this Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U57	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U58	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I listened to the talk about the vileys and other things, and I had this question: did you also consider the possibility of delegating this harmonisation to the Minister for Industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U59	As we understood in the debate, this is a purely technical draft. Our current legislation does not comply with the European Union directive, and we will correct the mistakes that have been made in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U60	Thank you. Any more questions? Andres Sutt, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U61	I am simply asking whether the same correction could not be made by a minister in this area with his own regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U62	No, these changes must be in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U63	Looks like there's no one else to ask. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations. It seems that there is no wish for negotiations. In this case, pursuant to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, the first reading of the draft 15 has ended. I shall prescribe the submission of amendments to draft 8... What? I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 15 May at 10 a.m. I'm sorry! There's been a bit of a mix-up in the protocols! We are talking about draft 15, the deadline for submitting amendments is 31 May at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U64	Next is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the 'Confession Committee of the Riigikogu to deal with the development of Estonian language learning' submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group. Rapporteur Member of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U65	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, the three groups have decided to initiate the creation of such a committee of problems, and that is what we are doing now. There are six points in the draft decision that this Committee on Problems will be working on. I would like to pay attention to the first point: ensuring high-quality learning of the Estonian language. We now have the opportunity to make recommendations on methodologies, the development of teaching tools and the preparation of lecturers. This is not a traditional thing, in the last 20 years, that Estonian language and Estonian language learning have usually started to be spoken in this hall before the elections, either local or Riigikogu. If we start this right at the beginning of the membership, maybe we can really solve some problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U66	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U67	Thank you, chairman of the meeting. Good waitress! Education, language, culture and sport are known to fall within the remit of the Committee on Culture. How do you see in the future the link between the Committee on Problems and the Committee on Culture in resolving this problem, as you said? There is also a common section here, and does the Committee on Problems occasionally give an overview to the Committee on Culture? How's that supposed to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U68	Thank you. That, of course, will be decided by the Trouble Committee once it is set up. But today I heard that this Committee on Problems, which will be discussed on the next item on the agenda, must have received a proposal from the Committee on Social Affairs to present at least once a year an overview of what is happening in the Commission and the results of its work. I don't think the Trouble Committee would mind. Secondly, the work of the Trouble Committee is open. I even have a little hope of achieving a situation like that eight years ago after two years of negotiations in the Special Committee on State Budget Control: the meetings of the Commission were public and went directly online when we and the National Audit Office discussed all these problems, as many as there were. I hope that this Commission will go the same way: it will do its job as openly as possible and will give a chance to cooperate to anyone who wants to do it professionally and effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U69	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U70	Good manager! Good waitress! Why do I ask? Unfortunately, we don't have that bill on this shelf. But what is the main problem? Soon 30 years have already been to the Republic of Estonia and, in fact, studying Estonian is not much, it is not space science. We need competent teachers and textbooks and a system that works. What is the central problem that should be resolved so that we can teach Estonian to everyone who lives here, and just so that they can learn it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U71	Thank you, excellent question! By the way, there's a bill number 3 on that shelf. One's empty, but the other's got the bill. As far as the main problem is concerned, we are very open, we are very creative. We hope that all people will do their job creatively, and we trust those who will do it. Well, indirectly, this Bologna system, right? Peter, I think the main problem is that there is no iron methodology and no control. It has to be that at any level, since the child turns three and goes to kindergarten, he has an insured language training, but not in the way that this morning I'm making something up and I'm starting to tell the kids something. This work has to meet certain requirements every month, every year. Unfortunately, there isn't one. Once upon a time, years ago, I conducted an experiment, it was 1994/95. in the academic year. I agreed with a director of the Narva Gymnasium and was allowed to teach children Finnish. The experiment was that even then we started to wonder why it is that a huge amount of time is taught Estonian, but the result is so poor. I worked with them in zero hours, which means that a quarter of eight started these hours, there was no second chance. Four hours a week, 120 hours in total. When we finished, Kirsti Päällysaho, who was a cultural attaché of the Finnish embassy here in Tallinn, came and accepted their exam. At that time, perhaps someone will remember, categories are not levels, but categories: A, B, C, D, E, F and half of that class became D and half of C.Well, of course, notionally because there was no such system in Finland. It's just that the exam was passed in accordance with those rules. At the same time, the same children had far worse stories with the Estonian language, even though they had already learned it for about 800 hours at the time. Control, strict discipline, methodology. The teacher needs support, the teacher needs materials, he needs constant training, not exactly in the creative sense that the more you figure out, the better. No one's gonna make sure he's capable of doing this. So that's the question. I am not sure that in this committee, I will be able to make this my own conviction clear to everyone. But I say again: I have taught thousands of people, I have worked in the language center for ten years. These 20 years here in the Riigikogu simply require me to try to explain these simple things to you, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe we can find some consensus, and maybe we can fix something. So far, there have only been words, words, words.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U72	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U73	Thank you. I am a little confused about the purpose of this committee. You said nicely that the six points were all set out. It's true. And that's where I get this problem. The problems of Estonian language are considerably wider than learning and learning, in turn, considerably wider than teaching Estonian in kindergarten or school. The first question is what this committee is dealing with. When we read point 2.2, for example, we see that it includes meeting and involving interest groups related to Estonian language. This is a very, very broad area. So what's the purpose is my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U74	Thank you for your question. It is not possible to write in the draft that the Commission is doing everything it wants. Usually, when this is the way to formulate it, they try to predict absolutely everything that can happen. Maybe these interest groups will come up, maybe there will be a need, etc. Perhaps there is a need to examine how many hundreds of million euros have been wasted on this education - this money is like somewhere in the swamp and so on. I don't know. That is why the broad objectives are being formulated so that the Commission can deal with any matter if necessary. At the same time, I reiterate that the main aim is to solve the problem of how to teach Estonian to non-Estonian children. I think that the problems of the Estonian language that arise in your community can be dealt with successfully on your own. It's all clearly written out here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U75	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U76	Good manager! Good waitress! You ended your previous answer by saying that so far there have only been words, words and words. My question is: Will there be only deeds, deeds, and deeds now, or will there be words, words, and some action?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U77	Thank you. It is not just up to me, it is not only up to the Commission, it is also up to the Ministry of Education, it is up to a number of organisations involved. It is no secret that Estonian is not only a very beautiful communication instrument but also an opportunity to earn money. And probably, if we start demanding strict discipline from the teachers, someone might begin to react to it in such a way that what you are calling for here. Say thank you for even going there, for working with them in the first place! I imagine that kind of reaction could actually be. But I would like to achieve something, of course, very much. I'll remind you, Peter, of a well-known story. I think it was six or seven years ago, and our colleague Jürgen was the Minister of Education. And then the Ministry of Education gathered a purchase of EUR 130000, and the object was to prepare primary education textbooks for kindergarten children. And one day we suddenly found out that this competition was won by a company in Tartu that sells garden fertilizer. Remember? Aadu Black has made an inquiry into this. We were told that everything was fine, that the money had already been taken back, that was after we started screaming. So on the one hand, we saw a very nice wish that we were doing textbooks, starting systematically, the state is controlling this process, the state is holding a pulse, but on the other we chose a fertilizer company. So to promise you that we will really achieve something is, unfortunately, simply not possible. Yes, we've done some things over the last few years, but the reality is that there has been very, very little. Once my colleagues from the Narva Language Centre, all experienced philologists, all with a corresponding education, talked about what really needs to be done. I have to talk to the Commission when it is created, exactly the same thing that I said more than 20 years ago, when the professionals already knew what had to be done, but politicians always did something different. So let's hope for a better one, but it can also happen in a way that doesn't work out. I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U78	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have no reason to doubt your competence, you speak very good Estonian yourself, but can you assure me that this problem committee has not been put into practice to show how many language problems we have in Estonia? Of course there are, but are there so many of them that we need to postpone the transition to a single Estonian education again and again?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U80	Thank you, Signe! I'm gonna brag a little bit. I became a grandfather last year. In three days, the boy will be a year old. This means that in a year he will be in kindergarten and in a year he will start, or he will have to start with the Estonian language. And I personally will do everything to enable him to learn the Estonian language, but in such a way as not to interfere with his learning of mathematics, physics, history, geography, etc. in his future life. We've been taking it kind of mildly. No one will take seriously the fact that Estonian can be studied and taught in Estonian lessons. Somehow everyone thinks it's much more interesting in math class and maybe of the best quality. It's really weird. This is really weird! But no, it is not a question of bringing out these problems. I mean, yeah, I understand I shouldn't have talked about this competition. Who knows, those who don't know, they're better off not knowing. We're looking for consensus here, we're trying to get some results, not criticize them. This criticism has been there for almost 30 years. The language law is already 30 years old, but we are still discussing how to teach Estonian at school. We're gonna have to fix this one time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U81	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U82	Good waitress! You will certainly be well aware of such a study as 'Convergences and assessments of the organisation of national language studies in Russian-language schools'. It was conducted by a team of researchers from the University of Tartu, led by Professor Birute Klaas-Lang. This study was completed a few years ago and has made concrete proposals to make Estonian language learning in comprehensive school more effective. I think you and I agree here that it is basic school that is an important place to learn the Estonian language and a place to succeed. Will the Commission base its work on this study and other studies, or only on data known to the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U83	Thank you. I think that during the summer it is necessary to look up all the studies on this subject. And not only those made a year ago or two years ago, but also those made 20 years ago. They need to be systematised and handled. However, I do not share your view of comprehensive school. I'd start with kindergarten, though. You know perfectly well that we have 18 kindergartens in Narva, but there's only one place where there's a huge order. I happen to know there are 280 kids in line right now. Why? For a very clear reason: the director of this kindergarten is Heli Adamovich, an old colleague of mine who has worked in this field all his life. He's teaching kids. He's taught adults too, but for him, teaching children has always been the most important thing. He doesn't have any Estonians in the collective except for him! Everyone's Russian ladies, Russian girls. He raised this collective, and now all the parents know that if your child goes to Pääsuke, three years later, when he goes to school, he will already burst into Estonian. And it really is. The problem is, already in second and third grade, they hardly remember anything. You watch the video of him talking when there was a kindergarten prom, and then you watch what's happened in two years. All kindergartens should work like Narva Pääsuke. So before we do basic education, let's start in kindergarten! Let's start there because we can't build a house from the second floor, we still have to lay down the foundation, and then the first floor. So, yeah, that's for sure. I have shown this kindergarten to people involved in the culture and language of five members of the Riigikogu, and the prime ministers have been there, as well as education ministers, etc. If you think it's made a difference to nothing! And Mrs Adamovich works for free, teaching and consulting Estonian teachers. Personally totally free! Again: this is the enthusiasm we once worked with in the language center. But that's it. We can't do everything at once. We need to understand what the problem is and step by step to resolve it. But you have to start from the beginning, not half the way. It's wrong, it doesn't work out. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U84	Katri Raik, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U85	We are both members of the City Council of Narva with you, Mr Stalnukhin, and we are already able to meet at the Narva Council meeting this Thursday. Do you support the opening of other language baths in Narva? It has also had a strong influence on local policies, that there has been no more immersion in the language. I absolutely agree that teaching the Estonian language in kindergarten is the most effective. I also agree that there must be a smooth transition from kindergarten to school so that children do not forget what they have learned so far. Do you support the opening of other language baths in Narva, which would mean loss of employment for teachers of kindergartens with knowledge of Estonian in non-Russian language or not so good, and would therefore be an unpopular decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U86	Thank you. I'm afraid, Katri, you don't really understand the nuances around here. A immersion in the tongue means that children still communicate with people who are the bearers of the language. So it is objectively. In Tallinn, I have been through several kindergartens in connection with my children's books, and I have asked you everywhere how you are about learning Estonian. I think that the Estonian language is perfect for people who are involved in immersion in Tallinn. Where do we get them in Narva? From where?! We just don't have those people. What was said in the previous composition, that we would find 800 people and send them to kindergarten, that's not it! It does not at all correspond to what we hope and really want to achieve. I was talking about the Russian ladies working in kindergarten, where the only thing in Narva is the urge. This means that it is possible to train people in any collective. For this to happen, a curriculum prepared by professionals is needed. Well, kindergarten is specific: games, all kinds of opportunities to move, dances, songs. That's how kindergarten works. But it all has to be systemically. Improvisation is, of course, a very good thing, but language learning should be minimal. It is more important to ensure that the iron plan is implemented. Yeah, I'd support a immersion if I was the one to deal with it. I see more perspective on developing a solid study course, along with methodologies, textbooks. In fact, it is very important that all of this is in a way that is understandable to the parent. Even a parent who does not know or speak Estonian at all must be able to help his or her child at home. And it can be done. All it takes is a wish. So that's the way it's got a immersion. Some say that a immersion takes away some of the skills that a child needs in his future life. He knows less of his native language; he does not master it fully. I've seen different theories, the Commission is watching it all. But I'll just finish by saying it. Once again, quite a long time ago, five or six years ago, I was at a discussion at a high school in Narva, where it was decided whether to switch to Estonian, whether to support it or not. There were children in comprehensive school and upper secondary school who represented this two-tiered degree of their representatives. And a girl very much wanted to be transferred to Estonian. Then I asked for attention and asked him, "What's in your pants' back pocket? It turned into a password. Because the person who insisted on teaching in Estonian at his school did not understand the question. I could have asked no matter what, that sentence didn't matter. So what am I talking about? So it's time to turn to the pros. It's time to talk to them calmly, without pressure, without politics. I am sure that in the next four years we will be able to solve a great many problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U87	Thank you. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U88	Mikhail, we have been talking to you for a long time about learning Estonian in Narva and elsewhere in Ida-Virumaa, all of these problems. One of the opportunities I talked about in 1995 was to introduce education in upper secondary schools. This means that as an additional specialty, all upper secondary school graduates who wish to receive a teacher's training. Upper secondary schools have a variety of specialties, and pedagogical education remained behind the fact that teachers and scientists told me that it was not going to happen, that people with upper secondary school education would teach children in kindergartens and primary schools. But being the headmaster of the upper secondary school myself, I can say that in our upper secondary school there were also upper secondary school teachers who taught children and at the same time supplemented themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U89	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U90	How do you look at it? Is that possible in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U91	Thank you. I think everybody's read Chekhov. He has one hero, one of the gymnasts, who teaches other children, and he is entrusted with teaching any subject. But I don't have that experience. That's one thing we could discuss, but I have to be honest with you, right now I'm not 100 percent sure I got that idea right. We're gonna have to talk about this more if we have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U92	Thank you. Looks like there's no more questions for the waitress. I invite a chair from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Paul Puustusmaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you to the waitress for a meaningful presentation. I hope the questioners got their answers. I hereby bring to you the decisions and proposals of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. On 7 May 2019 a meeting of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu was held, chaired by Jaak Madison and attended as members of the committee by Oudekki Loone, Mart Nutt, Hanno Pevkur, Paul Puustusmaa, Indrek Saar and Vilja Toomast. Among other things, there was a discussion of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the 'Confession Committee of the Riigikogu to deal with the development of Estonian language learning' initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group. There, too, Mikhail Stalnukhin took the floor, who explained to us the circumstances for which the draft had been initiated. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs makes the following proposals: to put the draft on the agenda of today's plenary session, to set the deadline for amendments at 9 a.m. on 28 May 2019, to appoint Mr Paul Puustusmaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur and to propose that the draft be sent to second reading when the first reading is closed, by 30 May. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U94	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. In that case, I will open negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Pursuant to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the first reading of Bill 3 has been completed. I will set the deadline of 28 May at 9 a.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U95	The next item is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the 'Constitution Committee of the Riigikogu for Resolution of the Population Crisis' presented by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Isamaa. Rapporteur Member of the Riigikogu Jaak Valge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U96	Mr President, all ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. I will then follow the example of my most experienced colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, and will not make very big and patetic words. I believe that there are no people among us who would not recognise that any other policy of the state is not adequate if it has a negative impact on the development of our population and deepens the population crisis. But I would define the population crisis as a situation where the birth rate is below the recovery level, which, as the current population and economic policy trends continue, will lead to labour shortages and a high tax burden on workers. This will be the case in the near future, in the long term, but it will threaten the progress of national culture and the preservation of national culture in the long term. Estonia is a small country, a small society and the situation of our population is indeed very peculiar for very many reasons. Firstly, we are a society with an early demographic transition. This means that the birth rate started to decrease long ago, we were among the first five societies in the world where the birth rate started to decrease. Tammsaare was already worried about a small birth rate. Konstantin Päts said in 1935 that as the same trends continued, Estonia would become an 'old nation with more older people than younger people'. And it threatens the future of the whole nation and the nation, because 'the old are not powerful, enterprising, the old have no hopes and the will to fight like the young'. True, today we know that Tammsar was right, but Päts didn't. This means that older people are not a problem for us, but a resource if we conduct a proper population policy and properly implement older people. The continuing ageing of the population creates an opportunity to make innovative changes in society, as stated by population scientist Liili Abuladze. This was then the first problem: a small birth rate, an early demographic transition. Secondly, we have an exceptionally large share of the population of foreign origin, as well as a major integration problem. If we want to formulate it more positively, this is a major challenge. And that means that we have reason to be very careful about our immigration, but indeed, in recent years it has increased sharply, so that the ratio of indigenous peoples is likely to decrease. I say 'probably' because our migration statistics may not be quite accurate. Go on. As you all know, our average income is lower than in other societies with an early demographic transition, where the birth rate is similarly below recovery. This means that other societies with an early demographic transition are attractive centres of attraction to our people. In summary, these particularities, plus the fact that we are a small society, mean two things. Firstly, we are in a very fragile demographic state, and secondly, we cannot set an example in shaping our population policy anywhere. Well, let's say Latvia has more or less the same problems. We still have to worry about our own problems and formulate our own problems, find our own solutions. I do not dare to judge with certainty at this point how good our demographic policy has been, or rather, the demographic element of our entire policy, or its impact on the development of our population. I believe it will be matched by historians or future history demographers after a while. In particular, the question is whether it would have been possible to avoid such an emigration. So, this is a question for the historians of the future. On the other hand, it is a pleasure to acknowledge that Estonia has made significant progress in family policy. In Estonia, the average cumulative coefficient of birth rate of this decade is 24% below the recovery level, which actually means that each succeeding generation is a quarter less than that of its parents. But if we consider that the birth age is postponed, the picture is actually much better. According to demographic estimates, the average number of children per woman per generation in Estonia in the 1980s could be between 1.8 and 1.85. That means we need a little bit more, 11 to 13% more, and we're already at recovery level. But that does not mean that we can rest on our laurels, we do not really have laurels, and that the instruments of family policy cannot be improved or that the goal has been achieved in any way. This committee bears the ringing name of the problem committee on the resolution of the population crisis, which refers to the prospect that we will be able to resolve the population crisis during the term of office of the XIV. In fact, the target is far away. We must bear in mind that no societies in the Occident have raised their birth rates in recent years or, rather, it has been very temporary there. Still, it is a pleasure to note that we have become aware of our problems. A committee of the same name was formed already during the previous composition of the Riigikogu, which had great merit in raising awareness of the problems. And that's how at the end of the diagnosis phase we've actually started the treatment. I am thinking of maternity pay and other measures. But we could also get to the prevention phase. Population scientist Ene-Margit Tiit wrote very appropriately two weeks ago: 'The Riigikogu could and should control or evaluate all acceptable drafts from the point of view of population development. Such a task could be the task of a legislative body. That could be the positive step they could take. ' Not all drafts can be examined and evaluated by the committee that is to be set up. However, the Commission's role is to give opinions on legislative initiatives involving demographic impacts. And this is a logical step forward for the previous Commission to be concrete. I believe that everyone here thinks that solving the population crisis, or rather, let us say, maximum mitigation, is a common goal for all of us, whether we are in opposition or in a power union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U97	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U98	Thank you. Dear Jack White! Here's the question. Do you see as a problem that many children are born into common-law families in Estonia? And do you intend to engage in the promotion of traditional family values in this group or group?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U99	Thank you for your question. In itself, it is positive that many children are born, whether in common-law families or other families. You don't have to deal with that in that sense. However, we do know that the average number of children is higher for couples in formal marriages than for couples in common-law relationships. Personally, I do not know how this committee will decide, there will be more members, but I personally think that no one should be forced to do anything excessively. However, we should also not take measures that undermine traditional marriage in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U100	Thank you. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U101	Good manager! Good waitress! The previous Trouble Committee dealt with theory and solutions, but also practice: the balance of its members was +1 child. My question is, does the new Commission have a plan to overcome it or to keep it at the same level?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U102	That's a nice question. I have not thought about this and it has not been fixed as part of the current Commission's tasks. But if we're also considering grandchildren, I'm absolutely convinced that we're going to get a better result than this plus 1.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U103	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U104	Thank you. Mr. White! I, too, would like to recall the problem committee that existed in the previous composition, whatever name it was. It is well known that this Commission's work ended with an overview of what the Commission's advisers did not consider possible, or at least it was not so competent, that it could be discussed in a large Chamber and adopted a decision. Do you think this new Commission will be able to write a piece of paper that could be discussed in the big Chamber? And I suggest you accept Peter Ernits' proposal. Fix it in your duties as well!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U105	Thank you. When we bring the Commission together, we will have to agree on our working methods, what we will have as priorities and in what order we will be dealing with. Of course, I do not want to underestimate the work of the previous Commission in any way, even if this strategy was not adopted. But indeed, the work that was done to make the situation known was great. However, as far as our committee is concerned, I imagine it as if we are dealing with individual issues for a while at first, and then perhaps, in contrast to the previous Commission, perhaps we are trying to make a concrete proposal for the solution of each individual issue to an institution that is at hand to resolve these issues. Personally, I imagine it would be a year or a half after the strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U106	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U107	Thank you. Dear waitress, Interestingly, you could answer my question before you heard it. I mean, strategy is good, of course, but it doesn't always solve tactical tasks. One example. I've personally encountered a group of nurses at Kohtla-Järve Medical School. 20 girls graduated, not one of them is in Estonia at the moment, everything is abroad. And I'm saying that it means minus 40 children to Estonia, because everyone I've heard about has two to three children. So my question was, in fact, whether only a strategy needs to be addressed or whether in some areas something can be improved quite quickly. For example, perhaps at least in some agency where women, including young women, work and pay conditions could be made better, competitive with another Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U108	Thank you, my good colleague. I also believe that issues should be raised and resolved as specifically as possible. However, population policy is, in itself, one of these very complex systems of complex measures, in which it is possible that side-policies, which are difficult to recognise in the initial approach, may have an impact. I am a historian, but I have worked in the centre of demography in Estonia for years and I have learned one thing quite clearly there. And this thing is that major changes and no miraculous solutions to population policy with individual measures and it is impossible to achieve quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U109	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Next, please address Paul Puustusmaa, representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U110	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Like the previous point, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her juicy treatment of the problem and bring you the decisions and proposals of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on this issue. Similarly, on 7 May 2019 we had a meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, chaired by Jaak Madison and attended as members by Oudekki Loone, Mart Nutt, Hanno Pevkur, Paul Puustusmaa, Indrek Saar and Vilja Toomast. During the debate on this issue, Jaak White's opinion, proposals, thoughts and approval of the draft were heard. It was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, that the deadline for amendments be set at 9 a.m. on 28 May, that Mr Puustusmaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, be appointed rapporteur and that the draft be sent to second reading when the first reading is completed, by 30 May 2019. All decisions have been taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U111	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. There is no wish to negotiate. According to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure, the first reading of the draft 4 has been completed. I will set the deadline of 28 May at 9 a.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-27_U112	Free mike. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech after the hammer hit. There's no call. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 4:38 p.m.
