ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-21_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, I must inform you, sadly, that we have reached the last day of the XIII session. According to the procedure, there is still a possibility to pass on drafts and enquiries. Since there is no wish to hand over the drafts and enquiries, we are going to the presence check. Ladies and gentlemen, 69 members of the Riigikogu are present, 32 are absent. Let's go to the messages. I have three messages. Please listen carefully! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! In view of the fact that today we have the last sitting in this House, I would ask you to take important materials from your tables and drawers after the end of this session. [[There's noise in the hall.]] I would point out that there is no need to bring tables. The second message: as soon as the plenary session is closed, a joint picture of the members of the Riigikogu will take place in the vestibule of the Riigikogu building. As soon as the sitting is over, I will stress it! And thirdly, after taking a joint picture, the Board of the Riigikogu invites all members of the XIII Riigikogu to a reception in the White Hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-21_U2	We will go to the first item on the agenda of today's sitting, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (establishing the procedure for declaring arbitration judgments enforceable in Estonia). I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 749. Before the final vote, there is a check of presence, because a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft. 72 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 29. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I am voting on the draft law on the amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws relating thereto 749. Please take a stand and vote. There are 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, 6 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-21_U3	We are going to the second item on today's agenda, which is the third reading of the draft law on supplementing the European Union citizen's law and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. Proposal by the lead committee: final vote on draft 781. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the final vote a draft law on the amendment of the European Union citizen's law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-21_U4	We are going to the last draft law of today and its composition, which is the third reading of the draft law amending the Defence League Act initiated by the member of the Riigikogu Ants Laaneots. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 786. I vote on the draft law amending the Defence League Act initiated by the member of the Riigikogu, Ants Laaneots. Please take a stand and vote. There are 75 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen, We're getting to the most important part. Please move to the lobby of the Riigikogu building as soon as the session is closed. I also recall that the reception of the President of the Riigikogu starts at 11.30 a.m. I wish all those who stand as candidates for these or future elections success, especially Kalvi, to you! Thank you, and have a nice sunny day. [[Let's hear it.]] Closure of the sitting at 10.09 a.m.
