ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 8th working week Tuesday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is possible to start by handing over drafts and enquiries. The members of the Riigikogu do not have the wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. We're gonna do a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 20.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U2	We will go to the processing of today's agenda items. There are three points on the agenda. First, the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre" submitted by the Committee on the Environment. I will briefly present the procedure for this procedure. First there is a presentation by the representative of the commission (up to 20 minutes), then it is possible to ask questions to the rapporteur, each member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur, then there will be negotiations between the representatives of the political groups and there will also be a final vote today. Okay. I would like to ask Riho Breiveli, member of the Committee on the Environment, as rapporteur for the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! According to § 56 (1) of the Environmental Fees Act, four of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre are appointed by a decision of the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Environment Committee. As the mandate of the members appointed by the previous Riigikogu has expired, the new members and former members must be re-elected instead of these persons. Perhaps so much for those who have not yet come into contact with this subject that KIK, that is, this foundation, deals with the distribution of investment and money to certain objects, to a large extent to environmental objects. The Commission has nine members and we have four members appointed. In the previous rounds, it would be known who there were there Siim Kiisler, Andres Metsoja, Valeri Korb, Jaanus Raidal, Tarmo Leppoja, Rein Randver, Rainer Vakra, Aivar Oruste and Meelis Mälberg. Now we propose to replace four of them. The Minister of the Environment is automatically a member of this Council and remains a member of Jaanus Raidal, Tarmo Leppoja, Rein Randver and Aivar Oruste. Following the end of the previous term of office of the Riigikogu, the Committee on the Environment asked the political groups of the Riigikogu to present their candidate for membership of the Supervisory Board. Four candidates were nominated: Merry Aart, Kalvi Tuld, Igor Kravtšenko and Priit Sibul. The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu decided to recall Valeri Korb, Andres Metsoja, Meelis Mälberg and Rainer Vakra from the council on 13 May. At the same meeting, it was decided by consensus that Merry Aart, Igor Kravchenko, Kalvi Tõvi and Priit Sibul would be appointed new members of the SA KIK Board. The Committee on the Environment submitted a draft decision to the Riigikogu on 14 May. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu on 27 May, the Commission decided by consensus that it is proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, i.e. by 4 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U4	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U5	Thank you. Good waitress! I was here with former Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, discussing whether, according to the coalition agreement, foundations, like companies, will have a nominating committee principle in place in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U6	I cannot say this because we did not discuss this issue in the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U7	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? No requests, let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, pursuant to § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I will final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Revocation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and appointment of new members' as proposed by the Environmental Committee. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with one abstention. Bill 23 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U8	Let's keep going. Today's second item is an overview of court order, justice and uniform application of the law. The rapporteur is Villu Kõve, President of the Supreme Court. Please! For the members of the Riigikogu, the presentation by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve, lasts up to 30 minutes and every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask the rapporteur one oral question. Only the representatives of the political groups may take the floor in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Courts Act gives me the right and also gives me the obligation to give you once a year an overview of the court order, the administration of justice and the uniform application of the law. I'm taking this opportunity today. You should have the text of my report in writing. I'm gonna take the liberty of cutting maybe a little, or I'm not gonna be able to tell you everything. Maybe I'll wrap this up to fit the time limit. I have shared my presentation today in three blocks, I would like to talk about three important problems in relation to the courts. Firstly, I am speaking in general about the situation of the judicial system and the two major issues of the future, the court order and the judicial network; secondly, I am talking about judicial staff and, thirdly, more specific ideas about the law. I would like to start by saying, in general terms, that you have been given the annexes to my report, which gives a numerical description of what the court will look like in 2019 and how things will be resolved there. If there's any questions, I'm ready to answer them. The general diagnosis of judicial order and the functioning of justice is, in my opinion, a good one. In the first months of my term of office, I have visited every courthouse in Estonia, listened to the concerns of local people, talked to judicial staff and judges everywhere, and I can confirm that. Sometimes, in the public, also in the media, there are negative signals about the court from the surface of individual cases, whether things are dragging down in court or if someone has made the wrong decisions. However, if you look at numbers and comparisons, we can see that Estonia is very high on the table of the justice systems of the European Union with its judicial system, even second in terms of speed, quality, independence and efficiency of the procedure. Only Denmark beats us. So, on the European side, there is nothing wrong with our judicial system. IT solutions are guaranteed and overall evaluation is high. This is a good result, given that the Estonian state spends less on justice in proportion, per capita, than most other countries of the European Union. But you don't expect me to give a eulogy. That is why I wrote here to the people of Estonia according to that there is also reason to talk about problems and look to the future. The previous presidents of the Supreme Court have focused on different topics, the procedure, in 2016, has already been on the topic from the point of view of the so-called state reform and asked two questions: about the current judicial network, as well as about the number and role of court officers. These are the thoughts I would like to share with you, what the court could look like in five or ten years' time, what the problems are with the courts themselves, with the executive and with the legislator, because everyone's common concern is that we have this shared administration of justice, and that justice still works. We have four county courts and two administrative courts in Estonia, divided between 15 court houses. Physically, there are more houses or places of justice, everyone has judges, except the Kärdla courthouse in Hiiumaa, where there is no permanent judge. As such, these courts have been virtually unchanged over the years, the whole structure of the judicial authorities being unchanged. However, the general demographic changes in our society, which are also reflected in the cases, cannot be overlooked. The movement of people in Harjumaa has had a dual impact on the judicial system. This has affected the number of cases in Harjumaa, Harju County Court in particular, which has increased considerably and sometimes cannot cope with matters, judges working at the last border. On the other hand, the number of things has decreased in other parts of Estonia, depending on the location. It makes sense that when people, money and disputes all move together in one place, the burden on judges becomes uneven. Things have gotten more complicated all the time. When you talk to judges and look at the length of the judgments, including the practice of the Supreme Court, you can clearly see that earlier so-called simple things have become increasingly complicated, longer, more and more debated about details. Let's look at the statistics. In 2018, 14466 civil cases were received by Harju County Court, 219 cases per judge. It was 206 in Tartu, 154 in Rapla, 134 in Kuressaare. So you can see an uneven distribution. In addition, there are several special competences and different national authorities that influence different courts, such as the PRIA in Tartu, the Estonian Medicines Agency, the University of Tartu, and the locations of prisons also affect the number of court proceedings. In Viljandi, Jamejala psychiatric hospital provides a massive part of the court's work. So there's this uneven distribution of things in many ways. The workload is lower in small places than in Harjumaa, but it is not possible to say that there is no job there. Rather, the work of Harjus is over, there is a very heavy burden on the judges. In the last hearing of the court administration council, this also worked out well. Other courts have tried to harmonise the situation so that judges travel between courthouses, settle cases in different courthouses, and things are also discussed in different courthouses. But total convergence has not been achieved. The problem on the ground is that judges often no longer want to live in the areas where the courts are, rather they are willing to go there. For example, a large part of Narva's judges live in Tallinn and travels between Narva and South Estonia, with a similarly large number of judges who do not actually live where they understand justice. There are also difficulties in finding qualified auxiliary staff, Advocates-General, young people with a master's degree who can be motivated. There has been an attempt to find relief by a videoconferencing solution that is increasingly being applied in courts. But it is not always the same as a trial, there are things that require direct contact with a person. If you take it purely by numbers, you could say that smaller meeting houses could perhaps be closed, but there are things that need to be discussed on the ground, and justice should still be available to all Estonian people. Digital solutions help to alleviate the problem, but they are not enough. Looking at Tallinn or Tartu, it may seem surprising, but there are people in Estonia who do not use e-mail, who do not have an ID card or who have to go to the nearest library to use the computer. These people are not as few as they may seem when they look at Tallinn and Tartu. But justice should be kept available for everyone in Estonia. This also hinders the specialisation of judges, as this is simply not possible in small courthouses. If every county courthouse has at least one civil case and one court judge dealing with criminal matters, they must replace each other and they cannot specialize very narrowly. In addition, on-call time must be shared, especially in criminal matters, because something can happen on weekends. If there was a criminal judge in Saaremaa, he should be on duty and available 365 days a year, which does not make any sense in the way he works. Those are the problems that seem out of the court network. Solutions need to be sought together to do what to do, whether to redistribute the workload between courts. This was discussed in the last court administration council. We would, of course, be pleased if the additional seats of the judiciary in the Riigikogu were to be welcomed, but that is something we have not taken into account in the current situation and are thinking about how to share resources more wisely. For information to the Riigikogu: which cases are now the most important in Estonia or what are the most important in Estonia and on which the judges themselves say that they need to be dealt with the most? In civil matters, one might say, dominating family law things: maintenance, communication with the child, child custody, access, and the number of claims are currently slightly reduced. Unfortunately, in criminal proceedings or in criminal proceedings at all, there are cases of close relationship violence, drunken driving, unauthorized driving and drug-related matters. These are, you could say, more important criminal cases or offences. Administrative matters: there are many prison complaints depending on the region, but typical administrative matters are related to construction and planning and taxes. It's an overview of what's going on in the courts right now. The issue of judicial staff concerns us. The question is whether, despite the decline in population, judicial staff can remain in their current state. We still have a relatively large number of people at work: judges, court officials, who are Advocates-General and Registrars, including assistant judges. But the question is how much and what function does the judicial system need in five or ten years' time, how many judges and court officials should be in Estonia, what qualifications we expect from them, what is the proportion of roles, the proportion of judges and judicial officials, how much may the need for people be reduced by the continued implementation of digital solutions. There aren't very clear answers today, we're looking for them, we're working on it. The Courts' Administration Advisory Board and the Ministry of Justice have taken it, and I have taken it as one of my tasks: selecting and looking for staff, thinking that today's decisions would justify themselves in five, ten and fifteen years' time. We must decide whether the current'manhood' of the courts, that there is an Advocate General and a Secretary for every judge, is optimal, sustainable and financially feasible for the state, or something needs to be changed here. Rapid solutions, rapid changes here certainly cannot be supported. The judges are accustomed to today's arrangement, and it has ensured that things are resolved quickly. Therefore, any change must be considered seriously. We also need to think about who we still want to see as a judge in this country. In recent years, we have had a general policy of 'growing judges' among judicial officials. That's one way to go. Another way to get judges is a'second career model' when people come from outside, such as lawyers, prosecutors. They should also be motivated. I do not support the extreme choice of having only one side or the other, I think it is good that the judiciary comes from both sides. It also allows for a different look at this work. Diversity comes here, I think, in favor. The appeal of the judiciary to social guarantees is so and so. The main guarantees for judges today are pay and the lifetime of the profession. Other guarantees that have existed have in the meantime been taken away from the judges by the legislator. The thing about pay is, yeah, it's been up this year, it's been in place for a long, long time in previous years. It has been the same with the salaries of the members of the Riigikogu and the members of the government; this has been the same. It is clear that the judge's salary for the so-called average salary in 2019 and 2007 is not comparable. I guess that must have demotivated some people in the meantime. But the judges also have bigger concerns. One of the things I would like to talk about and ask the Riigikogu to consider is to restore the disability pension for judges, which was taken away behind the judges and on the move. This concerns few people, but it is very difficult for these few people to choose whether to work themselves to death or to be injured without leaving office, stuck to its life-longness, or to withdraw with dignity. We have had very sad experiences with judges who have worked to the very nearest point and who have not received this pension. Then, too, very difficult choices have to be made in the judicial system itself. I think that this is a state-to-state decision and there would have been no reason to change this system. Similarly, I share the general understanding of the judiciary that the state could, precisely in order to encourage a second career for prosecutors, lawyers and already dignified lawyers, consider pension contributions to the pension fund, in addition to salary. Maybe it'll stimulate and help people get more when they have an extra motivator. Only pay may not be enough to motivate good lawyers to come to the justice system. What else to talk about? Of course, the issue of court officials' pay is screaming. This is precisely the case for lower-level court officials, session secretaries and translation, with whom Harjumaa has problems, especially for secretaries whose salary levels are below the average of the market and among whom the turnover of the frame is high. I also had it on my heart in Narva, where there is a problem with interpreters. The procedure must still be in Estonian, but it is not possible to pay the interpreters enough. Other public authorities are said to be able to pay more than the courts, which means that there are sometimes problems with the quality of the hearing in the area. We could also talk about educating judges' successors, their educational model. We have already faced the problem of no longer having a full study of law today, it is no longer the case that a person is studying law five years from the beginning to the end. Today's young people are mobile, they study part of their time abroad, maybe start with another specialty. We've had one person at work who's done a Bachelor's thesis in history, and then a discussion arose about whether he even met the judge's qualifications standards, even though he had a master's degree in law. The movement of people should be encouraged, but we should ensure that people still have basic knowledge of Estonian law. Therefore, the uniform requirement in law that a master's degree must be in law may not, in fact, be quite sufficient in order to adequately assess, in a perspective, whether a person still meets the expectations that the judicial system, and even justice, would need. Over the years, a single professional examination of a lawyer has been considered in order to create comparability. The professional examination would be a common 'entry desk' for the judiciary, the bar office and also the prosecutor's office, would be comparable and would also put young people with different diplomas in line. It still doesn't exist right now. Maybe we should get on with things like this. So much for the concerns of the court network and the judicial staff that stand out in court as to speak to the judges. What would the courts want to put to the legislator? The courts shall, as a general rule, operate and be able to rule on the cases correctly and fairly and within a reasonable period of time. It's like this. There are exceptions, yes, there are poorly moving things and sometimes stretching things, but they are still, I dare say, exceptions. Of these individual exceptions, legislators and executives should not be over-lighted and say that there is an immediate need to amend the law, something needs to be changed immediately. In fact, that is not the case in general. We should first look at whether this is a systemic problem and not rush to amend the law. Usually something bad comes with an amendment to the law. The judge can clean himself up. The judges have a pretty strong disciplinary procedure. There have been three disciplinary cases this year, three things have already been resolved. They were about the lengthening of proceedings, about unfriendly communication or rudeness with parties to proceedings, and the third thing was, say, about poor-quality judgments, because the judge cannot, at least on the basis of complaints, properly justify his decisions. In discipline, two judges have been dismissed in recent years, one due to chronic stalls and the other due to rude behaviour with the parties to the proceedings, let us say so. So this system, I think, can clean itself. People complain relatively actively, these things are being investigated and, if there are problems, they are being dealt with. One thing that stands out from the statistics is that in recent years the trend in the number of cases is decreasing. This should not, I think, be euphoria when making management decisions and think that it is stable, that things are going to be less, and that could, for example, reduce judicial resources. After all, we are living in good economic times, and economic prosperity is also reflected in court cases. We do not have very many'survival disputes' in court, such as debt matters, terminations of employment contracts, redundancies, tax debts, leases, utility payments, bank loans, insolvency matters, which are precisely what ordinary people are. There's no mass. Yes, there are a lot of specific disputes, but this is not a problem as a whole. However, we have already survived the twisting of one economic cycle as the number of cases exploded. Therefore, there should be a buffer and a reserve to deal with these matters, since no one will likely think that economic prosperity will grow infinitely. At some point there will be a correction, and then the judicial system should be prepared for a larger number of debt disputes, insolvency matters, probably also tax disputes. There is a fear that there will be an increase in the number of crimes against property. There is also a request to the legislator that recourses to the courts and a change in the burden on the courts not only be affected by the economic situation. In my presentation, I gave some examples of the fact that the large increase in the number of cases may also be the result of specific legislative decisions. We have had examples of shortening and extending limitation periods. The next critical moment will come in 2021 when the ten-year limitation periods in enforcement proceedings expire and may forecast a flood of disputes. We've had bad examples. In 2005, the law reduced the limitation period. True, there were three years and one might ask whether this could have been done differently, but in 2005 the judges in Harju County Court were reminded that in the last days of the deadline, they were brought to court with carts in order to avoid expiry. They were indeed brought in carloads, and the trial was flooded with them. It was a one-time act, and hopefully there won't be any more of that. On 1 January 2009, the legislator massively increased the state fee and the court was flooded with all kinds of exemptions and even with all kinds of tax disputes. The bad news was that this law, which entered into force on 1 January 2009, was published in the Official Journal on 31 December 2008. So it happened all day without any vacatio legis. Such a change is not actually correct. I think everyone understands that. Prayer for the legislator is to plan things for longer. It should also be better to notify laws and changes. One bad example was at the end of 2017. Since 2018, the Riigikogu changed the arrangements for placing minors in educational institutions by abolishing juvenile Affairs Committees. These things went to a civil court, to be settled in civil matters. Interestingly, this amendment entered into force on 1 January 2018, but two weeks before that, most judges did not know that such a change would come and that they would have to deal with this type of thing. It came out of the judges' training. Once again, the communication had not been made completely. There was a gap in the legal system somewhere. From this also the prayer: If you pass laws and they affect someone, it would be good if you could find out about them and prepare for them. Therefore, stability in legislation, better justification, well-thought out implementing rules, more calmly developed comprehensive laws, rather than small'shocks' anywhere that could knock the whole system out of place. I hope that the time when the work of the Riigikogu was assessed by the number of laws adopted could have passed. The judge would look forward to stability. Not even the judiciary is waiting for this, but people at all are waiting for them to get used to the standards, to develop some kind of practice and to move on more calmly. I've brought out and marked some subjects. You could talk about them all for a long time. I have written down what could be changed in the judicial system and, at the same time, in the eyes of the legislator, in order to help reduce the number of disputes. I'll read it out briefly, in my report I've brought it up. In judicial proceedings, the holding of an oral hearing, in particular in criminal proceedings, maybe also in administrative court proceedings, should be examined as to whether this is always necessary. This is sometimes very time- and resource-intensive. There are things that can be resolved much better in the sitting than in the written procedure, but there are also things that the hearing simply delays, the hearing creates costs and takes time. By law, it is possible to improve these matters a little and to replace the mandatory sitting by a possible sitting. The principle of the continuity of criminal proceedings has also been attempted by the legislator to optimise. This should be dealt with further. There are now a dozen criminal cases at Harju County Court, a case of general procedure that, figuratively speaking, has overwhelmed this court. When a very large number of criminal cases come in at the same time, which cannot be re-divided, which, according to the law, must be dealt with successively by one judge and cannot do much else, there will be very long planning and there will be a lack of understanding as to why these matters may only be resolved next year. The protection of personal data has raised questions in court as to the extent to which the new regulation on the protection of personal data concerns judicial decisions. There is a discussion among the judiciary about this and there is no clear picture of how public data of the parties to proceedings should be available in the case-law both before and after entry into force, particularly in the case of criminal proceedings, it is not clear which direction should be looked at here. It should, I think, be dealt with further. Pre-trial procedures could certainly be promoted, particularly in family matters, including in disputes between neighbours, but also mediation could also be developed. I believe it would be beneficial for the whole of society. The procedure for the award of procedural aid, as well as for determining the costs of proceedings, has become very difficult, takes a lot of time in court, disputes are sometimes big and much paper has to be moved. There are different optimization options that can be addressed. Service of a procedural document and connection to the Population Register Act. It is a kind of bad example that the Riigikogu passed the Population Register Act and enforced it, leaving it completely unconnected with legal proceedings. There are provisions. Judges will figure out what that means and whether it has any meaning in service. Such things should also be done sooner. For example, all laws are in the coordination circle, but this law was never shown to the judges before. These questions could have been taken sooner. I also mention the responsibility of the state for legal proceedings, possible permissions for foreign-language legal proceedings, including English-language legal proceedings, precisely to make Estonia more attractive as a forum for resolving litigation. The insolvency procedure would also need to be reformed. I have to offer you a few, yes, I understand that provocative We are in trouble with the Estonian-Russian legal aid agreement. It is a treaty from the early 1990s and it has begun, I dare say, to abuse. This is precisely in order to direct litigation to Russia. For example, Kohtla-Järve has an apartment owner, a Russian citizen living in Russia, and a public debt needs to go to Russia, although the apartment is in Estonia. It could be done, but, look, it's said there's no agreement to do that. Or bankruptcy disputes to get a deal called bankruptcy security. It seems that the safest thing to do is to plant this dispute in Russia somehow to block the return of property here in Estonia. These are new trends, and this agreement needs to be modernised. If there was any way to deal with it, it would be necessary. The subject of minimum living is important in family matters. When I was in Valga's court, I was told that there are no people in the area who can pay for the minimum living waged by the legislator. The judges have turned to the Ministry of Justice to make the regulation of a minimum living more flexible in some way, as it is accompanied by very draconian measures for those who do not pay for a living. Still, we need to analyze what people can do and whether it is reasonable to do so. It's a common property issue. I dare say here on the floor of the Riigikogu that, on the basis of a number of disputes, it has become quite understandable that the current collective property regime, this legal, mechanical joint property, should be replaced by an economic joint property, a more flexible collective property regime. The procedures for placement in a closed establishment and psychiatric expertise have also raised questions. In Estonia, people with mental disorders have a huge number of problems and need to be dealt with. We're in trouble, psychiatrists are in trouble, courts are in trouble. Resources are scarce and procedural arrangements may not always be good. Good ambassadors! I'll get my story straight. Sober mind and calm reflection on the country's decision-making needs for you! Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U10	Thank you, dear waitress. There are a number of questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U11	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your interesting presentation. On 30 June 2014, you were also a member of the Supreme Court when the Supreme Court decided that the eats of land change were correct and the defendants had to be convicted, although the Court of First Instance, under the leadership of Valeri Lahnik, had said that the tracking permits were illegal, that on their basis no one could be convicted, and that they were acquitted. It's been five years now. The European Court of Human Rights has recently arrived at a ruling stating clearly that what Valeri Lahnik said at the time and on the basis of which the defendants acquitted is true. Tracing permits were illegal and obtained on the basis of them...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U12	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U13	...the evidence shouldn't have been used. Why did the Supreme Court decide that this was not the case, and now the state of Estonia must also pay the pain money to people and institutions who have been convicted illegally? Is there some kind of political bias back there or something else? By the way...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, there is one minute to ask the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U15	Yes, the question has been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U16	Thank you for your question. My background is civil law, I have no connection with this particular solution. I've read it. I dare say that there are few people in Estonia who have read this Supreme Court ruling as a whole, it is just so long, hundreds of pages and points. This whole charge, this whole thing, it's probably been the biggest thing in the history of Estonia. The Supreme Court formed a whole team to resolve this matter, who divided it into pieces to understand complaints at all. In this type of big stuff, I think, there's a risk that some particular little action might have gone wrong, actually big. Something can go wrong, all things people do, that can always happen. The judges have appreciated this case in Estonia and three levels of justice have stated their position, people have been convicted. The Human Rights Court did not say that these people were wrongly convicted, I can say, as far as I have read the case. I haven't read it in its entirety, but I've looked at the summary. Two thousand euros were awarded to the Estonian state for the benefit of two people. The reason was that the Court, by granting the surveillance permits, did not sufficiently motivate it. That's how I remember it. What are the consequences of this particular matter, it's hard to say. After all, it is theoretically possible to come to the Supreme Court to review this decision on the basis of the Human Rights Court. Whether or not there are sufficient grounds for this particular case, it is probably the lawyers of these people who are involved in this decision. There's a mechanism. As the unlawfulness of these specific permits affected the conviction as a whole, I cannot appreciate that. No one's likely to appreciate that today. If this complaint comes, it's gonna have to be resolved. But I dare say that there was no political bias in the Supreme Court. I know after watching people handle it from morning to night. As far as I am aware, there has been no such case in the Supreme Court during my period of employment if someone had told me that you had to make such a decision or that someone had to be convicted. That kind of thing, I don't think, and I hope it doesn't. So in a particular case, I'm a waitress right now. Let's see what happens. The Human Rights Court sometimes says that there is something wrong with the Estonian state as well. In very few cases, this has been said about the Estonian state. If you look at other countries, you can see that we have had very few such cases. But, of course, it is certainly good to look at the individual defendants that their right was recognised and that they can defend their rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U17	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U18	Thank you. Mr. President of the Supreme Court! My question is from the border between legal and sociology. I very much appreciate the independence of Estonian courts, including the independence of social opinion. If, figuratively speaking, the people insist that you crucify him, then the judge still looks at the paragraphs, but not, say, the minds of the people. However, there may be quite a dangerous trend for society here if the majority of the people do not accept court decisions and they do not respond, I do not know, to expectations of justice. For example, at a time of bronze man's crisis, it was clear that the crime had been committed, but no one was guilty, or that things had simply become obsolete. I would like to hear your thoughts on this subject. Don't you see any danger here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U19	Yeah, I can see that. Of course, if social opinion eventually turns out to be that courts only make wrong decisions and there is no need for courts, or worse yet, that they are corrupt or that they do not know what their solutions are, it is certainly not good and can end very badly. Looking at the Court, I think it is in everyone's interest, in the interests of the rule of law, that our judges are still strong and wise people who resolve matters by law, as the law has given them. If the law is in accordance with the Constitution, the solution must be based on what kind of media campaign is possible and how the court may be put under pressure. This is a guarantee for all of us in this country, because we never know what role or where we might end up. The independence of judges, I believe, is of great value and it has been guaranteed in Estonia. I would like us to continue to have judges like this, strong people who have this independence. Another thing is when judges motivate their decisions so that the public does not understand that they do not understand why. It's bad, isn't it, when the court writes decisions that you don't understand why he did that? The court should be able to justify its decisions so that people can understand it so that at least most people can understand it. There are, of course, people who simply do not accept the decision, they do not agree with it in principle, no matter what you write for it. However, it must be understood why this decision has been made in this way. We've been trying to fix this in court. Similarly, we have also tried to improve that judges are prepared to explain their solutions, both in press releases and directly in the media, so that they are ready to explain why this has been done. We've been trying to bring more judges to the camera. This has been one of our priorities, the same improvement in media communication. However, as far as media matters are concerned in general, we have seen a great deal of the same pattern in media coverage of cases, which has sometimes been part of a defence tactic or one side of a dispute tactic. It is usually the impression that the first to come to the media, so-called kick-off, will be lined up behind it, everyone will believe the story of this person and maybe no longer listen to you. The same can be true of criminal cases. There's gonna be a lawsuit, somebody gets arrested with a big aplomb, the DA's office raises expectations very high, but if it turns out after that there wasn't really any evidence or evidence, it's all gonna fall apart, and the question arises that there's some kind of expectation in the public that won't be answered. We've discussed with the DA's office how to fix it. I don't want to blame the DA's office, they have to explain what they're coming out of, but it's still a phase where people can't be crucified or convicted, you have to try to be calm and watch. This is one moment here. Judgments should still be better substantiated. But it's very hard to tell what the people's mind is, whether it's like this page or the other page. I think it would be an extremely slippery way to make your own decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U20	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U21	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for a very interesting presentation. Today's coalition has promised to set up the judges of the criminal proceedings elected from among the lottery citizens and to consider including the judges of the people in family law. I am very interested in how you feel about the involvement of public judges in the area of family law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U22	Today, unexpectedly. It's a multitasking thing. Until 2006 people's judges in all civil matters were allowed, they could be applied for, but then they lost it. It is not possible to take me to the other extreme, and in no civil matter, to the courts of the country, to the judges of the people, and it is not possible to hold a collegial trial at all. The point was that the procedure would be quicker. The involvement of public judges is still cumbersome, often used as a tactic to delay proceedings. But in a way, you could say that maybe the baby was thrown out with the washing water. The idea for referees should be to bring society closer to the courts so that people can better understand the judicial system with the help of public judges, maybe the authority of these decisions be greater, and it would also take a little bit of decision-making away from judges in these matters, where there is a very large margin of discretion, if they are supported by people from among the people in order to make this decision. For example, there is, in fact, little such law in the family cases concerning child disputes. After all, it cannot be decided by law that the right thing is that the child stays with the mother or father after the divorce, or it is true that each child must be able to meet the father once a week or once every two weeks. It just can't be written into the law. Consequently, there is a margin of discretion and these are not legal considerations, in many ways it depends on specific children. Therefore, I think that, if this is reasonably done, in the case of children, it could be rational. But once again, there are a lot of details that raise questions: who these people are, where they come from, as they influence it, and whether or not they will linger on those things that should be resolved very quickly, which may also be a problem. I believe that this must be dealt with. But I don't feel any panicking fear of vigilantes. In many countries they exist. For example, employers' and workers' representatives have been present in court. It makes justice a little more clumsy and expensive, but maybe it increases its authority. In that sense, I can't be so sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U23	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable President of the Supreme Court! Yesterday there was the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, who told the hall that it was better not to expect his words to be fulfilled. That sounded like a clear threat from this remote. He and other members of today's government have been involved in the alleged domestic violence of Marti Kuusik by calling a potential victim. These people don't understand what's been wrong with what they've done. I very much hope that what you have said on this board, that the court and judges must be independent, will last forever in the Republic of Estonia. But what should be read from these messages by a simple person who, at one point, thinks about seeking help in the judicial system? Of course, it is always better if these disputes are resolved and doubts disappear before they get to court.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U25	It's hard for me to say something about a specific matter. I understand that an investigation has been initiated and that it will go on as foreseen in the procedure. I don't have any more information about this than what's been published in the media. This image or perception that the courts are independent and that the investigation is independent is important today. On the basis of media research, people generally trust the courts, but I see that much needs to be done by educating and convincing people of the existence of this same rule of law. I am convinced that there is a rule of law, and that is our common value, which everyone here must defend. As far as criminal or criminal cases are concerned, in some ways this is also ensured by the fact that these competences are dispersed between different bodies. The police, which is the Department of the Interior, are investigating. At the same time, it is run by the prosecutor's office, which in turn is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. The courts, the first and second stages, are a separate story, and the Supreme Court is still governed by its own rules. We've been trying to share responsibility. It's not like someone has one button, he pushes it, and everything goes according to it. I believe that this is one of the guarantees of our legal system. People can still be calm that things are being investigated. We do not have any serious cases of court corruption or influence of courts in Estonia, at least in the last ten years. I hope it stays that way. The profession is still of value to the judges. It is important that there has now been a generational change in courts. There have been a lot of young people who already have so-called elevated perceptions of communication and affairs at all, and they are, at least, part of them with an even stronger sense of criticism about any external pressure. I think if this happened, it wouldn't go unnoticed. I hope that we will also be able to convince society and the public that the judicial system and the investigation are sufficiently independent.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U26	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Dear President of the Supreme Court! I will continue on this subject, which was touched on by my colleague, Mr Lotman. I'm just going to urinate a little bit, but I'm saying that legal language has become twice as complicated as it was 20 years ago in the last few decades. I think there is certainly a role to play in transposing European Union directives. I am saying that perhaps 95% of ordinary people cannot read judgments, not because they are stupid, but because the sentences are very complicated. I therefore consider it very important that the judges explain the decisions and the reasons behind them in a language that is understandable to the common man. I think it would also reduce the gap between the judiciary and ordinary citizens. I have a question next to this. It's actually an extra job the judges wouldn't want to do funny. Is the remuneration of judges competitive in the private sector, where they are offered similar jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U28	If you start at the end, this year the judges' salaries went up, but they don't compete with the top. In this sense, it makes no sense to say that we would like the best lawyers, that this is never the case in any country, and that can never be the case. Today's pay, yes, of course, compared to what he was, has fallen. Surely it could be a lower level, a somewhat higher level of court in the first instance, which would attract better people to us. We're having trouble finding young people right now. But there's no salary, I guess, today it's the number one issue. There are rather other things up here: the huge workload, its regional distribution, which bothers the judges the very issues they live in and where they drive, and the lack of the same disability pension, which is particularly acutely raised. These are bigger issues now, so it becomes clear when you talk to the judges. As far as the comprehension of solutions is concerned, yes, there is no doubt that solutions can be understood. But at the same time, you, the legislators, give us much of the language of the case. It comes from the language of the law. We need to use the same formulas you've given us. Of course, you can and will try to simplify it. After all, in the Supreme Court and also in lower courts, there is an increasing understanding that together with the resolution, it will be summarised, a press release if the subject is of any interest. Our press people have precisely tried to make them understandable to the so-called ordinary people. Their aim is to help, together with some of the judges, to summarise the important message in this resolution, so that it can be understood in the common language. But as a whole, of course, I am also worried about what massity the European Union legislator is working with and how terribly many technical standards are coming. This makes it difficult to resolve matters, especially in administrative matters, in other areas as well, but technical disputes are particularly difficult. But what are you gonna do? We imagine that medical science is very complex, linked to Latin and everything else. Very many people probably do not understand the so-called "doctor's language." However, if there is a dispute over a medical error in court, you must try to put it in the language of the court to find out whether the doctor is wrong or not. Then you have to go all the way out, okay, whether you've been diagnosed either way or otherwise or treated either way. There's no way you can get past the specialty language. Or if there are technical disputes over the trademark, the patent over the patent will inevitably not pass the slang. But that does not mean that things should not have a human and clear summary. We're working on it, we're always trying to fix ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U29	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U30	Dear President of the Supreme Court! The procedural statistics of the courts, which are attached to your report, are very interesting reading. We know that the stories of individual people, families, entrepreneurs are behind these numbers. If they're going to go to court, I'm sure these things aren't very happy. In the statistics on civil matters, the number of family law matters, which is high, you yourself mentioned it. In your presentation, you noted that some questions and areas were the ones that should be more addressed. I suppose there are family members among them. What can be changed so that people do their family affairs less in court and can do so at home in their family circle?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U31	When I was talking about pre-trial and conciliation, that's what I meant. Indeed, there are a great many, disproportionate number of family matters in the courts in Estonia that have come to court in one way or another following the break-up. On the one hand, these are property-sharing disputes, including child-sharing disputes and disputes about the right to communicate with children, which are very complicated and often emotionally exhausting, and people are well uncompromisingly prepared to stand up for their right to the end, whether this right is acquired or not. Such matters should be resolved first and foremost by agreement, and when the courts do, they try to reconcile these people. Unfortunately, one big problem is that when people get to court, the conflict has already gone so far that, even if reconciliation may not be impossible, it will not be easy. There's one thing I'd like to do. The Ministry of Justice has said so, and the Ministry of Social Affairs has agreed to it. Attempts should be made to promote publicly supported family mediation, family dispute resolution services in Estonia. This is the kind of service that people would be able to get before when the conflict is not so acute yet, but they sense that there is a need to break up and share children, without money or for a very small amount of money, to turn to the dispute solver who would take them in a complex way, with all the worries they have, and try to talk before it gets very sharp, about the options that exist, and try to get people to agree. In many countries, it works quite well. In Finland, as I understand it, there are much less disputes like this than we do. However, these issues are the same everywhere. This service would make a significant contribution. It would be a very big deal if there were to be a proper reconciliation service that people would believe and respect. The conciliator would be people with legal experience and psychological experience, and they would help to find suitable solutions for these people before they were finally turned into a fight. That is what is very important: before a final argument is turned. Then it'll be easy, then it'll be harder to do. We would all win in society if there were less of these cases, children would be healthier, people would have less tension, everything would be much better. This belief in family matters, that I am right and that the other is wrong, in a situation where, according to the law, both are equal, is unfortunately very deeply rooted in the people of Estonia, and this is a serious problem. When I went around Estonia and saw that there were so many family matters, the idea became even worse. We're trying to deal with it. I hope this project goes well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U32	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U33	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the Supreme Court, thank you very much for your presentation. My question concerns the court administration council, of which you have been a member for a long time, which you are now chairing, and which I also had the honour to be a member. It has been set up to govern the judiciary, it is an advisory body in which decisions concerning the country's most important and judicial system, regarding the administration of the courts, are discussed and confirmed. My feeling as a member of the court administration council was that the working party and all the processes that are taking place there and are being discussed are in some respects so slow that it has also become a disincentive to the development of the courts and to the change of the working arrangements in different courts. If the court administration council meets four times a year, society will change, but the judicial system will not. How do you feel about changing the organisation of the court administration council?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U34	I do not think that the court administration council should come together every week, it would be very costly and complex. The judges should sit down and write decisions, do work, right, every day. In fact, from time to time, the council has also come together exceptionally and discussed in writing when there have been some very quick and burning things. After all, the point is that there is calmly discussing bigger things. The last time the court administration council took place for two days, we discussed how Harju County Court's workload could be redistributed calmly. I mean, we didn't discuss it calmly, it created very big debates among the judges on how to measure this fair workload for the judges. We've just set these dates and we'll come back to it in the fall. The Ministry of Justice has committed itself to bringing these same issues to the legislator relatively quickly. Not that I'm gonna tell you the story now, and then everything stays the same, and in a year's time, I'm gonna come and tell you the same story again. It shouldn't be like that. We're still trying to change this order so it's not just a chat room, we're trying to make some decisions there. I don't like sitting around and killing time either. I hope that KHN is not such a body and that we can also make it more flexible if necessary. But I think it's four times a year in the law, if I remember correctly. That's how it's been now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U35	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U36	Thank you. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! I will continue with the issue raised by my colleague, Kalle Laanet. If we look at the independence of the judiciary, it is, on the one hand, independence from the executive and the legislative powers, and, on the other, there is independence between the courts, otherwise the appeal would be hypocritical. The lower-ranking courts are managed by the Ministry of Justice in cooperation with the same court administration council, whose work is managed by the President of the Supreme Court. Here, theoretically, there is a threat to the independence of lower courts. Would it not perhaps be wise to create a new autonomous structure for lower-ranking courts to manage them, independent of both the Supreme Court and executive power?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U37	Thank you. This topic has been kept hot for about 15 years so that the administration of courts should be changed and an independent judicial authority established up to the Supreme Court. There are several aspects. On the one hand, of course, it is the same political decision and choice, all right? On the other hand, there is also the question of who is responsible in this country for the right to be understood as to whether or not the executive should be held accountable for it. It has been a more fundamental question that, if it is still wrong with justice, who to look at. Although this presentation has been made to be held by the President of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice is largely responsible for what happens in lower courts. The Supreme Court is looking at this and the things that get there, it's just from the side. In itself, many judges and I wouldn't mind. Yes, it has been said that it would be more independent if they were separate. However, there is one very burning thing about it that has so far become an obstacle at all times, and the name of this thing is money. Indeed, we have been talking (I do not know the details) about the Lithuanian experience. There's an establishment, but he hasn't been given enough money. If there is no executive responsibility for this matter and the judicial system itself must come from you to trade money for itself, but there are no guarantees, then I imagine that if we do not have a guardian, if there is no mechanism to guarantee the courts money, then the budget negotiations, when the budget is cut, will say that there is nothing to do, it will be the easiest to take from there. In France or Finland, I understand, there is a system that if the courts ask, the money will be given, but we do not. Anyone asks, the Ministry of Finance still doesn't want to give. In this situation, with this independence, you have a structure and you are and are responsible, but there should also be sustainable financing. Since no one has been able to offer this model, I would say that it is better for the executive power, who holds the government's wallet, to be responsible for it. And it is good that the responsibility is shared with the Supreme Court in the sense that the Supreme Court, in turn, supervises the rest of the judicial system in some sense. That's a better option. But these issues are definitely upstairs and the disputes will continue, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U38	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U39	Dear waitress, Recently, it has been shown that some medieval elements tend to enter our modern digitalized system, and I am thinking of the same issue of domestic violence. Yesterday, when there was a question of mistrust, one of the ambassadors knew exactly how Marti Kuusik was beating his wife, he spoke in a specific way, he is such a good psychic. And when he was brought to his attention, the excuse was that the Witnesses didn't want to testify, and it was a cover-up. They're spreading the presumption of guilt, they're guilty anyway. Another thing is Pavlik Morozov's syndrome. In fact, Sass Henno urged him to complain about his loved ones by promising an apartment, promising money, and the ERR urged them to give clues to their loved ones. It's the syndrome of the 1930s that, Pavlik Morozov, turn your father in, all right? Strange things are spreading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U40	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U41	How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U42	Again, I read in the media about your discussion yesterday, I know it happened here, but that's all I know about this, and I don't think I need to know any more about it. It'll probably be investigated, and the truth will come out. It's a question of overenhancing something in the media, so someone feels hurt. We have civil legal remedies. If someone's personal life has been unduly interfered, it is possible to bring an action against the media, against the data distributor, it is possible to demand money, including punitive damages, in accordance with the law. These are the options proposed by the law. I think it's a good thing we don't have a precinct in the media. If someone says, "Hey, now we're gonna decide if you can or can't write about something," that would be the worst option for everyone else, I think. For certain things, when you have a very sharp public attention, that happens. This isn't the first thing. There have been similar attacks in the media that have perhaps been carried out with a particular focus, but to go against them and say that the court or someone should be watching and pressing and erasing all the time, I don't think you really want to. You do not want us to have such a system in Estonia. I think we have remedies, and if it turns out that someone has been slandered or that someone's private life has been wrongly brought out, it has been violated and its immunity has been violated, then the money will also be recognised and it will ultimately work in these matters. I don't know how to solve this any other way. Once slander and insult were criminalised in Estonia, but the legislator lost it a long time ago. In many countries, this has continued to be criminalised. We have criminalised specific types of slander and insult. It has been a political choice that only civil law is going to do this; there is no general supervision. But it's in your hands, Riigikogu, which system we want. Right now, we have a civil system.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U43	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U44	Thank you very much, manager. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. You briefly said that the insolvency procedure needs to be reformed. What exactly are the problems that should then be addressed under the new paradigm?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U45	In fact, the Ministry of Justice has been working long and hard to prepare for insolvency reform, and I hope that sometime with these changes they will also get to the legislator. We generally have legal proceedings working, but there are a couple of such black sheep in the judicial system, let's just say, where things don't go as they could, and where we're also in a bad place in international comparison. Unfortunately, one of them is insolvency proceedings. If you look at these so-called international rankings, we see that there are two criteria that are compared. One is how long this procedure usually lasts, and the other is how much money it brings to creditors. We're a long way from the best of both things. I think that the insolvency administrators or judges are a little upset, that the procedure lasts for an infinitely long time and that the money does not come to anyone else, in many cases only to cover the costs of the proceedings. This situation is not sensible and we must try to find ways to deal with it so that we do not spin empty procedures. On the other hand, if there are still frauds, if there are criminal cases, then the state must deal with them, not hide them, the proceedings will just end and no one will get anything. The Ministry of Justice has had the intention of establishing a new supervisory authority for insolvency cases that would intensify their 'criminal bankruptcies'. This arrangement has been in Finland. There he has worked very well, could take a schnitt from there and try to deformize the procedure somehow. The issue of debt waiver is also raised as to whether bankruptcy must ultimately lead to the release of a person from debt. It's been very different. Let's look around Europe. There are countries where there is no debt waiver at all, there are countries like us for five or six years, but in England you will be freed from debt in six months, you will be able to open a new page in bankruptcy proceedings. There are a lot of international choices here. I think that our bankruptcy procedure is a little complicated, or rather, this conceptual approach is too complicated and it will eventually give many nothing. Creditors give up, they often get nothing. It's kind of gonna drown, but it's been like this. I very much hope that this reform will help something here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U46	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court, thank you for your good report. You have pointed out that the county courts and the judges who work there are burdened quite differently. It could be said that this is a certain problem, especially given the limited resources. This isn't exactly where we're starting to think we need to reduce the number of courthouses, is it? Or can you still see ways to reorganize the work in such a way that they are more evenly burdened?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U48	This is what we did last time in the court administration council. Right now, life has gone as if it were natural, and if it goes on like this, these houses are going to die quietly. We should decide what to do. At the same time, we have fantasticly beautiful and well-ordered courthouses all over Estonia. These are mostly public buildings. There is work there and there are people who need justice there on the ground, for example, the same, say, family matters, maybe the same arrests on the ground. We cannot say that criminals are all concentrated in Harjumaa, they are still scattered across Estonia and are doing their actions there, and they may also need to be arrested on the ground. At the moment, we have spoken in the court administration council that, rather, we should look for options to harmonise the burden and try to re-distribute things that accumulate in Harju County Court, which do not necessarily need to be resolved in Tallinn. They could be settled by judges from all over Estonia. By ensuring a level playing field, we are also stabilising the existence of these courthouses. There is work constantly available, there are different things and there is guaranteed quality. Rather, we should move this way to dispel the burden, not to shut down these houses. We have had a constitutional problem, which I talked about in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In particular, there is a provision in the Constitution that says that a person must not be transferred from one court to another without a legal basis. This has been a major problem in the redistribution of Harju County Court affairs. We are now looking for options to ensure that constitutionality is guaranteed, but that at least some things can be re-distributed. We're now analyzing how to do this. In the last session of the court administration council, there was a general understanding that not to go down the road to the liquidation of houses, but to go down this road, so that the houses have work, should be divided around this Harju County Court's great burden. Nor is the solution if we simply fill Harju County Court with new and new judges, then in the end, life will be there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U49	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U50	Thank you. Good Chairman of the Supreme Court, first of all thank you for an interesting presentation and also for the discussion that has arisen with you. But I'm going to family law and family mediation. Indeed, I have been a child protection worker and I know that there are a lot of disputes between parents on the desk, too, and that courts are unreasonably burdened. It is all the more so that, in the event of a change of essential circumstances, the same matter may also be brought back to court. Parents who understand each other are important to the child, and only the quality of their parents' relationships ensures the child's well-being and a happy childhood. That's my question. I understand that the involvement of public judges, as you have also admitted, can make justice more cumbersome and exacerbate the problem that the speed of judicial decisions is not what is necessary. How do you view the implementation of family mediation in matters of maintenance, access rights and also custody, leaving the role of the court in fixing the result of an agreement or conciliation in the form of a regulation? I know the Justice Department doesn't see that all these things can be resolved within the framework of family mediation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U51	It is likely that it will never be possible to achieve a situation in which all people agree. There are still things that ultimately have to be decided who is right. It's just the way it is. But we could try to make sure that the percentage of things that are settled by agreement is higher. As far as I am concerned, if there is some sort of state-supported permanent conciliation body, these regulations do not necessarily have to go through the courts. After all, today the system is such that the settlements of the conciliators must be declared enforceable in court, but not everyone's, as far as I remember the law. If it is a permanent structure, it is not necessarily necessary, it can confirm these agreements itself and it could also comply with them. In Finland, there is a very powerful Social Insurance Institution called KELA, which has also been in many ways the fear of Estonian survivors, because he has caught their money. He confirms these agreements and in many ways has taken over the whole issue of living in Finland. There are very few livelihoods in court if I have been properly reflected. I'm not very familiar with this system myself, but that's how I get it. It would also be our wish for these institutions to be able to work on all these things, of course, also on livelihoods, because they are related to things. If you break up, you're talking to a child and you're living for a living, both of these questions are on the table at the same time. By the way, it is interesting that one of the positive aspects of this too large minimum livelihood, which I can now point out, is that the father's desire to communicate with children has therefore exploded. It is possible that there is also a certain mercantile interest, in the sense that you have to pay less for a living than having more time with a child, but if this makes a child more able to spend time with his father, then it will have a better social outcome again. Men's such a well-compromising argument is not necessarily bad. Indeed, the social situation has changed completely. When 20 to 30 years ago, in the Russian era, there was the notion that if there was a break-up, the children would remain with their mother, and no one would argue that they wanted to see more children, then today the courts would be full of disputes. Roles have changed considerably in families.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U52	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Chairman of the Supreme Court, good Villu, it's always good to listen to you. Maybe I'll give you a little thought and ask for your opinion on what you gave me. At the end of this, there was a long list of what needs to be changed in the legal space. That's what I think the Justice Department is doing for a couple of years. But in the middle of your talk, you were wondering how to proceed and what choices will be made regarding our judicial staff. You raised a lot of questions. What are your priorities or where do you think the trial is going? Would it rather be fewer judges and more court aids, or do we have to deal with the same staff or in which direction the Estonian judicial system is developing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U54	It's not my personal decision, it can't be. I also do not have a fully-fledged position. I have raised these issues so that they should be dealt with and considered in a collegiate way. We have a number of options. The starting point has now been that the number of judges will either decrease or remain the same. I think that the judges themselves could be more involved in writing decisions and complicated cases. Maybe you can't expect court officials to do your job for you. Whether each Judge should have an Advocate General is financially questionable. Already this year, this issue arose because the legislator has linked the salaries of the Advocates-General to those of the Judges and, if the remuneration of the Judges is increased, the remuneration of the Advocates-General will also rise. Is this sustainable in the perspective, given that there are about 200 people across Estonia? It would also be possible to hold these lawyers in the "office" principle; they would not be attached to a judge, but they would be providing a service, and they could then perhaps be somewhat less. This idea is certainly not very popular among the judges; it has not yet been reached with discussions. We have now raised the question of how this is being optimised. The general view of the Judges is that the number of Advocates-General should not be reduced, nor should the number of Judges be reduced. It has been general and completely understandable thinking, but against this background we should try to predict what will happen in five or ten years' time with the things that we need people for, whether we need more quantitative work or qualitative work. If the computer takes over the technical work and if it works well, there should be less need for technical staff. That's the logic. I think it is not right for us to go this way, because we are reducing the number of judges, but it is possible that the number of both will eventually have to be reduced. That depends on how much work there is. Today it seems to me that there is plenty of work to do across Estonia, at least as Harju County Court's burden of redistribution. Rather, we should look at how many of these legal assistants we need in this form and whether it is sustainable, because together with the issue of pay, this issue immediately arises as to whether there can be so many.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U55	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U56	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Supreme Court, thank you for a good presentation and meaningful answers. I will continue with the question of Annely Akkermann on the reform of the insolvency regime. The economic cycle has already turned or is returning and, in the face of the economic downturn, insolvency proceedings will certainly also need to be brought. You mentioned that there are some ideas on how to deal better with these malicious bankruptcies. But do you have any ideas about case law that could be done differently in completely ordinary insolvency cases, if no one has a bad intention, but simply has the wrong business decision or other reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U57	In fact, our insolvency practice has changed in time, and it has changed that when we had insolvency law at the beginning of the 1990s, bankruptcy law, it was a matter for legal persons. I do not know when there was the first bankruptcy of a private person in Estonia. Took a while. But today, in 2019, mass work is the bankruptcy of private individuals. Insolvent individuals are under all kinds of loan leases. There are still relatively few of them at present, but if the economic cycle changes, then what happens next, we do not know that. My understanding is that we should deal more easily with smaller and simpler things where there is no malice to be seen. I think that, although I have a lot of opponents here, that we could simplify debt release and give people a second chance, not a bad word! be beetd with this procedure. It doesn't mean anything in the end, but money doesn't usually come when a person is ruined by this procedure. It's my personal idea that it could go a little shorter and easier. After all, this is a paradigmical change, and it can be seen from all over the world that if the insolvency procedure was previously creditor-centred, it has now become more debtor-centred. Creditors will be given more responsibility, they will have to check more who they are lending to, and then they will also bear the risks together. Can't say if someone owes you money, he'll have to pay for the rest of his life. If you misjudged this person or his solvency, you have to consider not getting your money back. But the crime is out of here right now. These are choices of a fundamental nature that lie ahead. I hope that this procedure will still improve in the case of natural persons. Europe is in a much worse position in countries where consumer bankruptcy is not properly regulated at all. But we also deserve a better handling of the consumer mother, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U58	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U59	Thank you. Mr. Judge, you know this deep-state thing. I'm scared. Yesterday there was an interior minister, he also knows the deep state, and he said that Marti Kuusik, mentioned here, is being investigated, but there is no criminal case. He also spoke yesterday and, in essence, he has said so much that he will investigate the opposition. Is it going to be in the Estonian state that there is no criminal case, but the person is being investigated, and the deep state is investigating the opposition because it is in opposition?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U60	Well, I don't know what's going on in the ministry, the police or anything. But I very much hope that this is not the case in practice. That is why we have the entire prosecution office in charge of supervising criminal proceedings; this authority is responsible for all investigations and this should not happen without the prosecutor's office. The D.A.'s office is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, and they've been trying to put him together independently. I hope that he will carry out his duties, that we do not have the deep state that we have been talking about here. I may be a naive and idealistic person, but I still hope we have the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U61	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! It is positive to hear that there are progress in family law, that fathers are also taken into account, not as in the old days, that property was taken away, that alimony had to be paid, and that the child was not seen. Instead, my question concerns judicial activism. For example, the court recently annulled the decision of the Rakvere Council, and there has been some legalisation of homosexual marriages in the past. Is this not the way to get too involved in the work of both executive and legislative powers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U63	I have to admit, this Rakvere decision I don't know specifically, I'm not going to spin around here. I don't know what you're talking about. But in general, the limit of how far a court can go is still written and discussed in the world, also theoretically. What is the role of the Court? Implement those rules that have been proposed by the legislator. If the legislator gives this picture in general, the court will lead to specific cases. That is the Court's first and main task. The second task is also for the Court to see that the same rules that the legislator has given are compatible with the Constitution and that fundamental rights of people are guaranteed. This is also the role of the Court in specific cases. If the Court considers that this is not the case, it must initiate a constitutional review procedure. There are between the two things with a certain margin of discretion that probably are in your mind right now, things in the 'risk group', where the court does not initiate constitutional review procedures, but maybe interprets the law widely. They're kind of borderline stuff. But that is why we have a three-tier court system and an opportunity to quash the judgments of the lower court. However, I think that one of the social tasks of the Court in all countries is also the right to develop further. We are unfortunately going to have court cases, things that the legislator has not foreseen. Legislator can't foresee all the things that happen in life, some areas are out of the question. At the same time, people cannot remain unprotected, the court has to decide something, it has to do something to resolve the dispute. If necessary, the court itself must establish this standard if there is nothing else left. Whether or not it seems to anyone to be exceeding the powers conferred by law is already a matter of assessment. But if there is no other way to resolve the dispute, that is if people want to defend their rights. I think that there are some dizzy cases of judicial activism in Estonia, where completely new paradigms are open, still minimal. Here we take the United States, where, figuratively speaking, the judicial solution has been created, we have not had such extreme courts. We've still had the rule of law in that sense, we've always been on the law in general. But there must be some kind of activism. That is the same activism that maintains the development of the legal system. If there are new things that weren't foreseen perhaps 30 years ago (we don't have such old laws, but there are 10 years old laws), then the court must somehow resolve this modern matter. I haven't seen much fear here. But I believe that if there is a law, it must be implemented. If this law, in the opinion of the judge, does not guarantee the fundamental rights of the people, then a constitutional review procedure must be initiated, rather than seeking interim options.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U64	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, it is good to hear such thorough answers to each question. I would like to say that the violation of ex-trial procedures sometimes happens, that we may not be able to get away with it, nor will we be able to get away with it in the future. But I certainly believe in the democratic approach of the Estonian state in all legal proceedings and other proceedings. So even those in the hall should not be intimidated, as if something were changing under the conditions of this coalition. But in many places there are judges and prosecutors in one house. How is this relationship, and how do we view coexistence in the first place?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U66	I've been through every courthouse except Kärdla. This gathering of judges and prosecutors in houses is more a rule than an exception. True, there are different solutions. There are houses where the prosecutor's office is either not at all or it is in some completely separate wing, but there are houses where they are more closely connected, as is the case at the courthouse of Tartu. Why did they do that in their time? I think that there is nothing more behind this than pure budgetary calculations, it is cheaper to keep public authorities together. By the way, this question becomes even more acute in the current situation, where it is meant that smaller court houses are too large that if there are two or three judges, then there is no need for such a large house. It has been an idea to build public buildings with several public authorities together. The possible option in small places is to take the courts to these state buildings, as much space is not needed, but a hearing should be held. Then the contact between the different institutions will be even greater. It's a question of choice. The judges won't mind if we move the DA's office out of the building. But where this prosecutor's office is going, the question arises because we also need prosecutors. I've spoken to several judges. The way it's handled is different. The vast majority of judges and prosecutors do not see any problem in that they are together. It's more of a point of appearance than a judge and a prosecutor, or a judge and a lawyer. We've had courthouses with lawyers. This is not something that would not have been at all. The bailiffs and everyone were in the same house, in small places it is. In the new houses, they've been trying to get the zones in between, so they're separate, in the Harju County Court, too, so they don't get so close to each other and be separate. Ideally, I'd say yes, let it be separate. But when they say how much it costs to start building separate houses for the prosecutor's office, it seems unreasonable again in the face of everything else. I don't think that's a risk. But if the Riigikogu decides that the prosecutor's office should be taken out of the courthouses and gives money to build new prosecutor's offices, then I believe who will still have problems. However, I do not believe that the practical impact of this one house on justice is significant. I understand that the younger judges, in particular, still have a particularly repulsive attitude towards prosecutors. Prosecutors have complained that the new generation does not want to communicate with them or that there is more of such a repulsive attitude. This risk also disappears in some form by changing generations. But the question is yes, what to do in the run with these houses, whether to build something more separate for the DA's office. For example, in Tartu, the Circuit Court of Tartu really needs these rooms. Often these questions may also be due to the interest of the court in obtaining these premises, then maybe the prosecutor's office has become a bit unreasonably involved in the role of a beating boy, and he is also needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U67	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress, thank you first for a very educational presentation. I am asking the same question that I have already asked in the group. I'm just asking for a badge to be left behind in this big hall. My question is simple: what should we do or do to prepare our judicial system for a possible time of crisis or war, so that it can properly carry out these very more difficult tasks and also solve those specific tasks and things that might arise in connection with military or war crimes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U69	In the previous court administration council, the Ministry of Justice presented the concept of a national defence working group, where it is proposed, I understood, along with the new draft National Defence Act, changes in court proceedings on how the court could operate during the war. I realized the subject has been up. I myself have spoken to the assembly of reserve officers on this issue, or at least to the representative, Mr Pihlaka, who has taken the utmost care that we still have a clear concept of what could happen during the crisis. I think that's what needs to be thought through in the law. His point was such (it is also difficult to argue against) that, in addition to being able to react more flexibly during the war, we do not know where we are discussing matters, we cannot say that in any case we have to resolve matters in the courthouse where, perhaps during peace, things can be reallocated, we have urgent procedures available, it would be practically even more important (he expressed such an opinion) to take four or five, perhaps eight judges who are specially trained and prepared, are also going abroad. We could discuss who this strike team would be at this difficult time, who could be used and who would be specially prepared to take on more justice than it should be. But I hope that these drafts will reach the Riigikogu at some point and you will be able to move on to this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U70	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U71	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! Your thorough presentation and reply to detailed questions clearly proves to us how the Riigikogu made the right decision, by assigning you to this high office and confirming you. My question is the starting point for your report. You have highlighted the complementary statistics of our judicial system, where Estonia is the second largest after Denmark. Could you tell us how many places are easily comparable with us in Latvia and Lithuania and perhaps more widely in our Eastern Partnership priority countries (if they are included in these statistics) Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova, which we often worry about in the justice system?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U72	I have to admit, unfortunately, I do not have this report ahead of me, I can lie if I say this now. This was, after all, the European Union's comparison of what is done every year in the European Union. You asked a question I cannot answer exactly, I can speculate here. Generally speaking, the Eastern European countries have made good progress, where this electronicization is in good order. I dare say I hope that I am not wrong, that our neighbours are also not in bad writing. But the same image of Estonia's e-governance will continue to play in courts in such a way that it is highly appreciated. It already seems to be a big deal in Europe that you can submit complaints and applications from a computer, which is still an unknown or, at least, a poorly known possibility in some countries. But I promise I'll send you this answer, I'll answer with exact numbers and I'll send you this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U73	Thank you, President of the Supreme Court. No further questions for you. Thank you very much for your interesting presentation and your thorough answers!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U74	Thank you. Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U75	Thank you. Let's keep going. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party, please! Five plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Indeed, I, too, from this chair, will join in those words of gratitude regarding a very good presentation and good answers. The issues you raised were indeed somewhat different from the speeches that the Supreme Court presidents have had here before, but I think it was very good. Indeed, the Estonian judicial system is quite effective, as the Estonian state is quite efficient. We always want more. It is already in the Estonian nature that we are not content with what we have, but if we are others, we want to be the first, and if we are the first, we want to be even better and faster. I think that one of the most serious challenges facing the judicial system, leaving aside such administrative and human resources, is still the procedure and the efficiency of the procedure. It is not, of course, solely the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court or the control of the Supreme Court. Although such an age-old dispute over who controls the court proceedings and who is responsible for the judicial system, whether it is the Ministry of Justice or whether the Supreme Court should play a greater role here, we did not have much here today, but certainly these debates will not go away. As I said on my question, the points set out in the report that need to be done in order to make the judicial system even more effective are very correct. There's a lot of them. I believe that even one government and Parliament may have little time for these points, these issues being very, very serious. I would like to draw the attention of the President of the Supreme Court first of all to the fact that, as a result of the role of the Supreme Court, it should be made clear where the Supreme Court has the opportunity to intervene with its proposals in lawmaking, and what is the right way to go, whether to go through the court administration council and the Ministry of Justice, bringing a proposal to this hall as a government initiative, or, if the worst of the trouble is, in my opinion, there is no problem if we get a direct signal from the judiciary, whether from the Supreme Court or from any other channel, that something needs to be improved and it can also be done directly here in the Riigikogu. These are topics that I believe could also be the subject of a greater debate between the Chairman of the Supreme Court and the Parliament. If you look at the question of staff, I think that the President of the Supreme Court has rightly raised how many people we have in the judicial system and how many more we can get there. Wage pressure is indeed very strong, but maybe even stronger is the pressure on people. The topic was raised in the speech that very many law firms are picking up lawyers from the second course, in circumstances where our new law teaching system does not even give a young person a degree in law after three years of study, but in the field of social science diploma law. What we expect from the court in these circumstances and who we want to understand is certainly a very serious issue. But I think there's a solution. On the contrary, I think it is very good if people who come to court have not come directly from the school bench, if the pay offered in the judicial system, whether we are talking about the assistant judge, the Advocate General or other staff, to the judge. In any case, the person coming to the court should have received real practice in the field. If he comes from a law firm, as a lawyer from a company or any other place, this practical experience is of paramount importance in the work of a judge. Indeed, we are thinking of a greater specialization. Consider family matters as an example. It's very hard to imagine that we're taking someone from school who's going to settle family matters without really knowing what's going on in that field and what are the worries about family matters. I strongly support the idea of the President of the Supreme Court that there could be 'pre-trial proceedings' in family matters (or whatever form we pour it into the legal space), family matters need not be settled by the court. The solution to family matters is primarily a conciliation procedure and a solution is found before a court is seised. In labour disputes, we also see that, although there are a wide variety of views, so-called legal philosophy, whether the labour dispute committee is by its very nature correct or whether there should still be a judgment in these matters, in practice, the Labour Dispute Commission takes a very heavy burden off the courts. According to memory, 10% of the labour dispute committee's cases will actually be before the courts, or 90% will not be before the courts, but will be before the courts. That's very, very right. I believe that, above all in family matters, but also in many other matters, it could still be implemented in order for the courts to be able to deal with genuinely complex issues, particularly criminal and civil matters, but also, of course, administrative matters. I am not going to point out questions concerning judicial statistics, but it is clear that the number of possible litigations tends to increase rather than decrease as the legal space becomes more complex. Our task in this Chamber is to understand very clearly that the legal space must not, in fact, become more complex. There could be less room for justice. I have also repeatedly told the judiciary that I have not understood that our civil proceedings would have become more effective or better because we have six times more paragraphs in the Code of Civil Procedure than when the Code of Civil Procedure was adopted in the early 1990s. That is definitely not the case. This shows that the introduction of quantity or procedural rules does not necessarily mean that the procedure itself will get better, rather the opposite. So the general message and guidance to the Supreme Court's chairman, which may be taken with him, is that the Supreme Court's decisions, which are the last in our series of judgments, would have given greater emphasis to readability, reference and that the legal space would be clearer and less complex for people. But as a reflection back: as I said, it is the task of our hall to take care of it. In any case, the power of the President of the Supreme Court and next year again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U77	Thank you. There's no more calls. Thank you to all participants. We have discussed the review of court order, justice and uniform application of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U78	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft Act 26 on the Approval of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Agreement on the Accession of the Northern Macedonian Republic initiated by the Government of the Republic. I request Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U79	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the High House! As early as 2002, Northern Macedonia gained the status of a country acceding to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Because of the dispute with Greece over the name of the country, the saga has been dragged on long. But as they say, the end is good, all good. This dispute over the name has resulted in a satisfactory outcome on both sides, only in a bilateral agreement concluded last year. This agreement provided for amendments to the constitution of today's Northern Macedonia, which were also approved by Northern Macedonia in January of this year, making its official designation the Republic of Northern Macedonia. This removed the last obstacle to North Macedonia's membership of NATO. The point of this short law is that the Republic of Estonia, as a NATO Member State, would approve the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. A number of countries have already done so, they have ratified it in accordance with national procedures, I think more than ten NATO Member States have done so, and other countries are expected to do so. Will this succeed during the NATO London Summit, which is the symbolic interest of Northern Macedonia itself? Let's see how these things happen. But in any case, if everything goes as expected, Northern Macedonia will become a 30th member of NATO. The extra costs to Estonia are not directly incurred. However, it is clear that this has immense military-political significance, as we undoubtedly expect collective defence from the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation to materialise, and so will Estonia's collective defence obligation towards Northern Macedonia due to its membership in NATO. Northern Macedonia has set a target of 2% of GDP for defence expenditure by 2024. In fact, he is already actively involved in NATO peace-building and security missions. I ask the High House for this law, which provides for allowing Northern Macedonia to join, discuss and support in the view of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U80	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I would like to ask Enn Peemaa, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to act as rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U81	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs prepared the draft for the first reading at its meeting on 28 May. The discussion was attended by Mr Reinsalu, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Katre Sai, Director of the European Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 3rd Bureau (South-East Europe and the European Union Office of General Affairs). Much of us, including me, had only recently met Nikola Dimitrov, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Northern Macedonia, who visited Estonia and took part in the Lennart Meri conference. The Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions by consensus: we proposed that the draft be sent to the plenary of the Riigikogu for first reading on Tuesday, 4 June, we proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 14 p.m. on 7 June, and the draft is the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs by decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-04_U82	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you either. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. Pursuant to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the first reading of the draft 26 has been completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 26 amendments, including 7 June at 14 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.56 a.m.
