ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-09_U1	Good morning, Reverend Riigikogu. We are all delighted to begin the session of the 5th working week of the first plenary session on Thursday. The Bureau is ready to adopt drafts and inquiries. Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-09_U2	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, When the previous government forced the club into four through a complex tax system which was opaque in the eyes of taxpayers, no warning was heard from us in this Chamber on behalf of the Reform Party. Now we know the result. One of the parties most affected by this tax system is those receiving pensions who will continue to work. Survivors' pensions are also affected. Of course, this whole tax system, consisting of thousands of steps, needs to be repeated, but it has to start somewhere. We will start with the Reform Party by presenting a bill that excludes all pensions of up to average old-age pensions, including survivors' pensions, from income tax. This rule must apply equally to all pensioners who continue to work. Why is this change particularly important? Because we all know that working people are very much needed in Estonia, basically in every sector. Non-taxation of pension income tax is one way of motivating and keeping those who are willing to work. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a bill to which, on behalf of the Reform Party, I ask for the support of all of you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, may you grow behind your tail if you do with this draft as you did in the previous composition with the draft proposed by the Reform Party, with which we wanted to solve the problem of taxation of working pensioners. Don't push this bill to the bottom of the drawer and forget it! This change has to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-09_U3	Thank you. The draft will go to the procedure to deal with it. Are there any further inquiries or drafts? Doesn't look like it. Then I have some messages, to be precise, one message. Following the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Estonian-Indonesian parliamentary group will take place in this Chamber, convened by Peeter Ernits. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu were registered as present and 17 were absent. As far as today's agenda is concerned, I must say with sadness that there are no points in this. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 10.03 a.m.
