ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-30_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will start the 4th working week Tuesday session of the 1st plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-30_U2	On 25 April, Andrei Korobeinik, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, took up the appointment of the new Government of the Republic. Let's hear his oath. Please, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-30_U3	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-30_U4	Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to hand over drafts or enquiries? Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-30_U5	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of three political groups, the Estonian Centre Party, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Isamaa Group, I hand over the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Constitution of the Parliament's Problem Committee to deal with the development of Estonian language learning'. Some wonder, but this year the language law will be 30 years old and it would be time to see what has been done in these years. For at least 20 years, I have listened to debates every year in this Chamber on the same subject. After all, it is time to find out how many dozen or several hundred million euros we have spent on this purpose, what we have achieved, what access to learning and methodological tools, how training is done and what the system is, if any, if it exists. This would be the main objective of this Committee on Trouble. I am addressing all political groups from this remote control right now. The political groups are necessarily represented in parities in this committee. But I have a heartfelt request. My dream is that you can find a way to choose from your group a person who is.. it would be the perfect option to never teach a language, or a slightly worse option................ has worked as a teacher at school or has just worked at school and knows what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-30_U6	Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-30_U7	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to transfer the draft on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Estonian Centre Party and the Isamaa Party, which will be approved by the Riigikogu, which will set up a problem committee to resolve the population crisis. Historians generally like to say that we stand on the shoulders of giants, and in that sense, this Commission has continued to work on the problem committee on the resolution of the population crisis during XIII, which has great merit in raising awareness of population problems. The Commission envisaged in the draft proposal is a continuation of this and, as the follow-up committee itself, its tasks have been formulated in more concrete terms. Thank you for your attention. So I'm gonna make the drop.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-30_U8	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted two draft decisions. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, now some messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be an opening meeting of the Estonian-African parliamentary group in this Chamber, convened by Mart Nutt. There will also be an urban mobility support group's start-up meeting, convened by Yoko Alender. Incoming check, please! 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9. Ladies and gentlemen, as there are no further items on today's agenda, the session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.07 a.m.
