ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Monday of the third working week of the IXth plenary session. Doesn't anyone want to hand over any drafts or inquiries? No, it's not. Thank you. Incoming check, please! 65 members of the Riigikogu are in plenary. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the third working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U2	Answering questions. The first question is made by Andres Herkel, Jüri Adams, Ain Lutsep, Enn Mere, Krista Aru and Külliki Hatters. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U3	Honourable manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Auditor General! Six members of the Riigikogu from the Free Party Group have submitted an inquiry to Auditor General Janar Holm on 3 December. The topic of inquiry relates to the information activities of local governments in the pre-election period. In fact, at the end of last year, the National Audit Office carried out a remarkable audit of local government information in municipal and urban leaflets, especially during the period prior to the election of local governments. The audit summary draws attention to a very painful problem: it is the use of public funds in private political interests. We believe that this kind of action affects the interests of both taxpayers and political competitors and society as a whole. Basically, there are three circles of problems that can all be considered abusive. One thing is that the leaflets issued by local authorities criticise or create a negative image of political competitors in unbalanced power. This, it turns out, is the most common: 118 such cases were counted in different publications. The second is when, through these pages, the official role calls for a specific person to be chosen. The third is that the main theme will be to praise the irrational self-government leader. It was quite a relief, too, to a large extent the same publications. There are many municipalities where this bias has occurred in itself, but this problem is particularly evident in Tallinn. Tallinn is known to have several newspapers, as the districts also have their own newspapers. In this sense, the Stolitsa newspaper, which appears in Russian, undoubtedly operates the most intensively. In addition to 48 tilted stories, a number of cartoons were counted. The same goes for the Capital newspaper. The smaller municipalities are one of the strange places in Loksa, which, at the will of the Centre Party, was not subject to the logic of administrative reform and where a rather incomprehensible exception of smallness was made in order to preserve the old municipality. A newspaper like Loksa's Life stands out with repeated incidents like this. Of course, we cannot rule out now that we are about to have Riigikogu elections and the campaign is in fact already going on, that some local government leaders are not tempted to use their influence or the newspapers that appear in the city to order praise and covert advertising for themselves there. And sometimes it happens that the authors of the papers read that desire simply from the eyes of those in power. We're not gonna find out about this audit, but I'm sure there's a sign of such a threat. We consider the initiative of the National Audit Office to carry out such an audit at all and bring it before us so important that we would like to get an overview of the Riigikogu's remote control. In addition, we have a series of interlocutory questions, which are also set out in the seventh question to Mr Holm. We look forward to their meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U4	Auditor General Janar Holm answers the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will then respond to the hearing on 3 December on the audit, which we analysed whether the municipal and urban leaflets were used for private party interests in the run-up to the 2017 local elections. I'll answer you by question. The first question: 'What artificial advantages have the information resources financed by the municipalities given specifically to the participants in the elections? ' The emphasis of the National Audit Office's audit was on verifying the legality of the use of public money. The use of public money in private political interests would also be illegal if it did not create an advantage. In other words, whether the candidate has actually gained an advantage is not decisive in assessing the legality of the use of the money, as is whether the advantage has brought success in the elections or not. It is important whether the money has been spent on the basis of the municipality's tasks and the public interest or not. Question 2: "Is Estonian legislation sufficient to minimise such distortions of free competition? If not, what should be changed first? ' I do not think that to solve the problem, there is an urgent need to improve the laws. It is also relatively difficult to create standards that would work in the same way in all the municipalities of Estonia. In this regard, I would like to stress that most municipalities and cities' leaflets were not used for private party interests in the run-up to local elections in 2017, which means that also in the existing legal space, an oppressive majority of municipalities managed to avoid problems and ambiguities when issuing newsletters. They did not need any more regulation to do so. And once again, as we stress in the audit, it is a question of political culture and political will. Not everything can and should not be regulated by law. The third question: 'What are the specific recommendations to prevent public money being abused in private political interests and what is the willingness of local authorities to use these measures quickly? ' The audit of the National Audit Office contains a number of recommendations that everyone can read in the report. The main thing is that municipalities themselves think about hedging risks and that the rules of the game are agreed on the ground. For example, one of the'self-control' options in our audit has suggested setting up an independent and balanced college to assess compliance with the rules with a certain regularity. In fact, this opportunity is already being used by municipalities in many parts of the world. External control is also dealt with by the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, with more and more practice gathering there, including court decisions, which are helpful and a code of conduct. We were also asked which borders (frequency, circulation, etc.) will allow the municipality's newsletter to offer unfair competition to private media and how to prevent it. The Estonian Newspaper Association has also expressed its perturbation due to the competition between municipal publications and private media in the context of the advertising market. The audit of the National Audit Office revealed that in 2017 advertising space was sold in about half of the municipalities and cities' newsletters, but their advertising revenue was rather low, mostly within 100 euros per page number. More than EUR 2 000 per commercial number was available in two newspapers: Viimsi and Rae rural municipalities. If you look at the total annual income, in some individual newspapers it was indeed more than EUR 40000, which is already a considerable amount in one county paper. According to the Estonian Newspaper Association, the problem of unworthy competition would be solved by a legislative amendment which would define a publication that is made for taxpayers' money as a local newsletter and which would prohibit the publication of paid advertising, including sales promotion. The Riigikogu has not yet considered such restrictions necessary. Question: 'Audit has affected Tallinn's specific information costs in Tallinn Television and purchase of Russian-language programmes from PBK. How do you assess the feasibility of these costs and the compatibility of ordering programmes from PBK with Estonia's security policy interests? Is and when the National Audit Office intends to deal with these issues separately and further? ' Indeed, in this audit, the National Audit Office has not dealt with the specific costs of the capital in connection with the notification in Tallinn Television or the compliance with the security policy interests of ordering programmes from PBK. As I have already emphasised, the topic of the National Audit Office is the possible use of public money in private interests. And the principle that public money may be used only in the public interest applies regardless of the municipality and the field of activity. The National Audit Office has so far carried out two audits on the use of public money in the field of information and advertising activities in private political interests: in 2015 and now in 2018. We have recognised the problem for those in the hands of whom it is to be solved. I have no reason to believe that the message of the National Audit Office has not been understood by the persons and organisations concerned. Question: 'The most in breach of the principles of impartiality (48) appeared in the newspaper Stolitsa, published by Tallinn in 2017. Inquiries have an analysis of the content at their disposal, which shows that it is not just a matter of ignoring balance rules, but a page that is directly hostile to Estonia. What is Tallinn's answer to the National Audit Office, including the Stolits question? What is the competence of other institutions (Private Financing Supervision Commission, Defence Police Department, etc.) to deal with this issue and whether and what cooperation does the National Audit Office have with them? ' The city of Tallinn's reply to the National Audit Office is accompanied by an audit report where you can read it in more detail, but in short, the city of Tallinn agreed with the main conclusions of the National Audit Office regarding the problems encountered in the activities of other municipalities. As regards the conclusions concerning Tallinn itself and its newsletters, opinions were divided with the National Audit Office in several aspects, including whether or not the Tallinn newsletters have been used for private political interests. According to the National Audit Office, censorship was also accused. One point of divergence appeared in the question of what the press is and what it is not. Tallinn is of the opinion that they make their own newsletters based on the principles of self-regulation in the press. This means that they are not allegedly involved in the editorial work or in the production of the paper's content. The messages identified in the audit were also justified by the freedom of the press and by the right of everyone to freely disseminate their ideas and opinions in terms of political competition. The capital and Stolitsa publications are free journalism and journalists, who are covered by universal and classic principles of freedom of the press. The Council of the Estonian Newspapers Association has decided on the characteristics of the newspaper and has found that the newsletters of the state and local governments cannot be regarded as newspapers. Furthermore, there is a requirement of independence in the Union Code of Ethics for newspapers, according to which the journalist must not be in the service of the institution to be covered. On the other hand, the capital of Tallinn's pages and the works of Stolits are part of the city's Chancellery and their employees are employed by the city's Chancellery. Regardless of how to refer to the issue of factsheets, the municipality cannot, by referring to self-regulation in a particular area, ignore the principles of law, which include the obligation to spend money only in the public interest. Acting in accordance with the law, the city of Tallinn can always use the word 'in addition' to 'ethical standards' as a basis for good practice in some areas. We were able to read the news some time ago, it was a little more than a month ago, that Tallinn has decided to lay down rules on how candidates should be represented in its information channels before the March elections. This concerns both city leaflets and Tallinn Television. With regard to newspapers, they have, for example, a plan not to publish the articles of candidates for elections to the Riigikogu. Whether the rules are respected or not, we can all monitor ourselves, but certainly their introduction is a step forward. As far as cooperation with other institutions and organisations is concerned, I can confirm that the National Audit Office has established long-term cooperation with the Political Financing Supervisory Commission, whose competence is to monitor that political parties and politicians do not use prohibited financing techniques in their activities. The results of the work of the National Audit Office are public and can be used by all relevant Estonian authorities. Question: 'Loksa, next to Tallinn, has been highlighted as the most bad examples of local government in the audit. The largest exception to the administrative reform was made by the government to Loksa, with only 2,700 inhabitants. The coercion of Loksa with Kuusalu parish was canceled. Such an exception was not granted to much larger municipalities. It is obvious that, if we joined Kuusalu, the politicians of the Central Party would not have been able to use public money in the local elections in Loksa in 2017 for personal election interests. Does the decision of the Government of the Republic in June 2017, which granted Loksa an exception (supported by the Ministers of the Centre Party), include political corruption? ' I have to say that from the audits carried out by the National Audit Office over the last 15 years, I was unable to find information showing that Loksa is such a special place on the Estonian or global scale that it is not suitable to use general principles. In the light of its experience, the National Audit Office supported the principle that the size of the municipality should be at least 11000 inhabitants when drafting the draft administrative reform. Finally, it remained in the law as a "soft recommendation" and the criterion was taken to be 5000 inhabitants, which should be the minimum order of magnitude. The decisions taken in the course of the administrative reform on the merger or non-accession of local governments reflect the political choices of the government, in which the National Audit Office cannot intervene. I also repeat what the National Audit Office has always recommended: if anyone has reasonable doubts about corruption or other offences, it is only right to turn to law enforcement authorities. And last question: 'What are the proposals of the National Audit Office to minimise political corruption in connection with the information activities of local governments and the use of advertising and communication money? ' I have already stated the views of the National Audit Office in this regard today, but I will repeat them again. This is a problem which cannot be solved by simple and one-off techniques, as its roots are in political culture. The legal space at the level of the law still seems sufficiently robust to identify and respond to the problem. We simply need to work harder to realise these opportunities. What does that mean? In particular, self-control at different levels must be better achieved, especially in terms of prevention. The best results will be achieved if the possibilities and measures to overcome the problem are considered, taking into account local circumstances. This is what we have recommended in the latest audit. Each municipality should set up its own set of rules to mitigate risks, which we have also presented practical ideas in the audit. I believe that the attention of society, the press and also politicians to the problem is the most sensible way to shape political culture on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U6	Questions for the Auditor General. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U7	Thank you. Mr Holm! Thank you for these thorough answers and, in fact, for all this very necessary audit. And the truth is, in 2015, you also had an audit with an analogous theme setting. So both audits were aimed at the situation prior to the local elections. But to what extent can they draw conclusions on the situation before the Riigikogu? After all, public funds may also be used freely for elections to the Riigikogu. Do you intend to move forward with these issues and carry out similar analyses in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U8	Thank you for your question. This year, we do not intend to conduct an audit, but it is certainly the subject on which we will continue to keep an eye. In the future, we will certainly be addressing this issue in order to achieve the objectives that I set out in my answers. Can any association with the Riigikogu elections be mentioned? No direct connections sometimes, no indirect ones. It is a question of whether political culture or cultural deprivation are reflected in the local newspapers in the Riigikogu elections, but I cannot answer that at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U9	George Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! You spoke a little bit more about the attitude of Tallinn and my question is this: did the Tallinn city management also have any concrete consequences in terms of the fact that, to put it mildly, the National Audit Office's conclusions on the political culture of Tallinn were ignored?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U11	Thank you. I spoke more about Tallinn because you asked more about it. At the moment, I would like to stress that there were 53 municipalities in which we identified either obvious violations or "grey" action. There was indeed more of these cases in Tallinn due to the higher number of newspapers and also for other reasons. As far as I am aware, the Political Financing Monitoring Commission has taken these specific cases into consideration, and I think that this work depends on whether or not there will be consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U12	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U13	Thank you. Dear Auditor General! For my part, I would also like to thank you for the commendable work you have done with this audit. I think that the cooperation of the Special Committee on National Budget Control with you has been so effective that things are still going for the better. It will take time, but if we continue to work hard, perhaps the result will eventually come. I want to ask you that there have been the biggest problems with Tallinn and the Tallinn City Government did not agree at first with all the proposals, approaches and opinions. At the same time, some progress has been made, especially in terms of self-regulation. You have not looked at whether the rules that they imposed after the audit, i mean the rules governing elections in urban newspapers, take account of these proposals and the reproaches that were raised in the audit?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U14	Thank you for your question. I would like to thank the Special Committee on National Budget Control for its cooperation in this audit as well as in other audits. In my opinion, the effectiveness of this audit depends much on the good cooperation between the National Audit Office and your committee and thus the entire Riigikogu. But the answer to you is that we have not analysed precisely whether the order established by Tallinn City Government in mid-December covers all possible situations. But the City Government of Tallinn has confirmed that it has taken into account the recommendations of the National Audit Office's audit. More specifically, we will definitely analyse this in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U15	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Holm! The National Audit Office did its grateful work and presented several proposals, perhaps even such controversial points, to local authorities in the report. How have local authorities reacted, for example, to the idea that municipal newspapers could be called newsletters and banned from advertising for a fee? Have you received any response to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U17	Thank you for your question. 74 municipalities responded to us after the audit, if I remember correctly. 5% of them were completely in agreement with the recommendations that we had put forward, and I am now naming approximate numbers. There was some who did not argue very strongly and few who had more specific comments on our proposals. We did not, in fact, give such a suggestion as to the names of the newspapers. In general, the names of the local authorities do not include the word 'newspaper', which is rather the word used in their daily turnover. Usually there are messages from a region or something like that. So that's what we didn't pay attention to. The second issue concerned the prohibition of the payment of advertising money. We did not make a direct proposal that advertising should be banned. However, in my opinion, the position of the Estonian Newspaper Association is relevant here, that this is a potentially detrimental situation to competition, even if the relevant turnovers are currently not large. This is rather a matter of principle; the financial volume of advertising is not so important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U18	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U19	Good manager! Good waitress! I heard your Loksa response that everything is as clean as a spectacle stone and as if there is no intervention, referring to political corruption. While I was in the party of the Centre Party, I fought to preserve Kambja's independence, and then Loksa was struck by an exception, which was clearly born in the interests of the party and also of a certain personal interest. Kambiah did not gain independence because their then mayor was the leader of the rebellious ones, he went to court. Remember, there were a lot of them. And for that, the Government of the Republic punished Kambiah by losing his independence. To this day, the bleeding wound that occurred when it was added to the Ülenurme is open. I ask you again: in this Loksa case, are the possibilities of the National Audit Office completely exhausted?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U20	Thank you for your question. I've never used the words "clean as a stone of glasses." There are people who have used it, I certainly haven't. What I wanted to say and what I said was that the National Audit Office sees no particular reason why it should be as it is in Loksa's case. But the Government of the Republic has the right to make such a decision in accordance with the law. The position of the National Audit Office has been that for years, municipalities should be larger, as I have already referred to, at least 11000 inhabitants. Finally, the threshold of 5000 was reached. Loksa does not meet this requirement. I think we can draw conclusions from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U21	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! The audit mainly concerns local elections; now there are elections to the Riigikogu. Would there be any additional legal regulation in the Riigikogu elections in order to rule out such cases or at least to have fewer of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U23	Thank you for your question. Yes, the audit concerned local governments, but I think that our general conclusion that legislative changes are not a means of escape also applies to Riigikogu elections. It is still a question of political culture. Most municipalities are doing very well in the existing legal space. I think the solution is that we all notice what's going on. I must say that the National Audit Office has already been approached with regard to the elections of the Riigikogu in specific cases where it draws attention to the suspicions that something like this is happening. I know that this has also been brought to the attention of the Political Financing Monitoring Committee. In general, I think that knowing what is wrong and what is right has improved considerably because of this audit, but also because of other circumstances. I think it's a lot more to notice these things. And we just have to talk about it when we see something's wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U24	Thank you, Auditor General Janar Holm! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U25	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable accountant! I would first like to thank the Auditor General for helping us talk about this. I'm sure it's important to talk. I also thank him for proving that Loksa cannot be an intrinsic exception and that there can be no intrinsic exception to the Stolitsa newspaper, which is the same municipal newsletter as everyone else. It cannot therefore be extended to the freedom of action of journalists, as is the case with the real press. I highly recommend that you do an analysis of the contents of this paper. This has, by the way, been submitted to the ERJK for a fixed period of time. And it is certainly not just a question of balance; it is also a question of the security of the state and the attitudes that are shaped by this newspaper for the money of the Estonian taxpayer in people. Some margins and others were found. One of the topics, perhaps in the context of this audit, is the secondary issue, but the question is, what is the role of local newsletters and their potential unfair competition with the real press, or real local newspapers. In my opinion, the approach of one being in the status of a leaflet and the other being a publication that can sell advertising space and thus generate additional revenue is basically correct. If such leaflets start to act as a real press, this could lead to market distortions. This isn't right. I would also like to point out that we have just-just had a reform of the local government, and that Estonia's municipalities are bigger. If, so far, it was small newspapers that appeared once a month, the larger municipalities would immediately be tempted to issue leaflets more closely and then they could become competitors. At times, there has already been a change, and it does not actually have a positive impact on the impact, because the press and local authorities are thoroughly confused. The proposal to put a stop to and prohibit the withdrawal of money from the market on leaflets is quite the right proposal, as the Auditor General thinks. At the same time, I noticed a comment on a page in Tallinn that people who are candidates for Riigikogu elections have limited publication of opinions articles. It made me laugh a little bit, to be honest. Some gestures have been made, but when you look at the way in which pictures of the district president have been published in one or the other position in a row over the years, the fact that he does not now write articles of opinion in a few months seems more artificial. I agree very much, in principle, with the argument that, in the event of an infringement, even if no benefit has been obtained, the infringement is an infringement and must be treated in the same way. But when I think about it politically, I caught myself looking at the examples in your audit, thinking that the weight categories wouldn't get messed up here. Stolitsa is a big deal, ordering programmes via PBK by the city of Tallinn is a huge thing. There are still some large municipalities, and I think it was Pala rural municipality's page, and there are others that invited people to vote in local elections for a candidate in the area. Well, I'd rather take it as such a little naivety. In fact, there may have been concerns about the dying local identity, which tends to be lost when joining a larger municipality. Yes, it was certainly not nice to do this through the leaflet, but in the case of municipalities, these are certainly different weight categories and also calls for different targets. There was a reference to the audit carried out by Andrei Kuzichkin. I hope that it will also be available to the National Audit Office in the near future. It is now known that an organisation called Corruption Radar has forwarded it to the Political Financing Monitoring Committee and this is certainly very interesting material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U26	Members of the Riigikogu do not wish to negotiate. I understand neither does the Auditor General. I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U27	And now the question, which is made by Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Enn Meri, Külliki Kübarsepp, Tiina Kangro and Ain Lutsepp. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Allow me to switch to the next topic related to Tallinn's possible circular railway. The reason for this inquiry was one of the announcements that came out of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications about a week before Christmas, the content of which was about such that the design of the bypass railway would not be started and had no connection with the planned appointment of Rail Baltic and its route corridor. This whole topic, which has actually been discussed for a very long time, started to be spoken about the Tallinn Ring Railway before Rail Baltics, tends to subside. I would point out that a very important aspect of this is related to dangerous cargoes, that transit cargoes pass through Tallinn city centre and Kopli freight station on their way to Paldiski. This was a very important subject, perhaps more than a decade ago. At some point these requirements were probably tightened, at some point quite apocalyptic scenarios were discussed, which would happen if ammonium nitrate, which is waiting at Kopli's freight station, were to ignite somehow what kind of accident might happen. These risks have certainly been significantly minimised, but, as far as I am concerned, the fact that transit volumes have been reduced has played a decisive role in this minimisation. Currently, it is probably not technically possible to switch very many trains from Kopli's freight station to Paldiski during the day, but neither are these trains. At the same time, the turnover of goods may recover. All the stories related to the potential trade turnover of Rail Baltic, whether they are considered utopian or not, certainly indicate that the need for a circular railway can rise again sharply. This is why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications' statement that the requirements of the bypass railway were not taken into account in the design of the Rail Baltic construction project forced us to present this inquiry in order to get answers to a number of questions. In recent days, different signals have come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, a different approach has been felt. I also understand that representatives of local governments around Tallinn have once again approached the Minister. The Minister has given them a new answer that looks more optimisticly at the plans of this ring railway. We now want a clear response from the Minister on what his intentions are, whether we can take these intentions seriously or whether this is a change in pre-election priorities. We look forward to meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U29	Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U30	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! As the heirs know very well, I am a serious supporter of public transport. More clearly, I fully support the development of existing railway infrastructure as well as the creation of new rail links. If we were to be the handshake of some of the previous centuries and governments enough to build a railroad, the promises made by the Minister for Economic Affairs would probably be stronger, but we must be guided by the current situation and how much work has been done in advance. I will read out the specific questions of the inquisitors, and I will also give them answers. There are four questions. Question number one: For what reason have you given up designing the bypass? How do you justify this to the Harjumaa Municipalities Association and the residents of Tallinn? ' As we all know very well, Tallinn's ring railway has not been the idea recently. It's been on the agenda for decades. The track corridor of this circular railway is indicated on the technical network map attached to the plan of Harju County for 2030+, not as a specific corridor, but as two alternatives, both of which have been presented as alternatives to a prospective Tallinn ring rail corridor in principle. The explanatory memorandum to the county plan states that the precise choice of the location of the bypass railway must be made in a more precise plan. Therefore, the planning of Harju County also requires more detailed planning for the final solution of the ring railway. This plan has not been carried out for this day, which is why it is premature to design circular railways, and this was also my first response to the Harjumaa Municipalities Association. So we explained to the Harjumaa Municipalities Association and the City of Tallinn that a choice must be made between the two alternatives. The Ring Railway is not only a question concerning the city of Tallinn, but also the topic of Rae, Kiili, Saku and Saue rural municipalities, since the southern corridor, where dangerous cargo is also being transported, would also be able to pass through these municipalities. At the same time, in parallel with the design and construction of the Tallinn ring railway in the future, we have taken into account the provision of the necessary physical space in the initial task of designing Rail Baltic. This means that the free gauge designed by Rail Baltic will allow for the physical storage of 1520 mm in the future, i.e. one edge rail with a well-known Russian track gauge, and if Rail Baltic is with a European track gauge of 1435 mm, it can be used at the same location as a solution known internationally as dual gauge. The dual gauge is used in the Rail Baltic route with our southern neighbours, for example in Lithuania between Mocka and the towns of Sheštokai, as well as in the short section of Rail Baltic between Kaunas and Marijampoo. The second question: 'Why is the need for a by-pass railway not taken into account when preparing RB's construction project? ' As I said in reply to the previous question, Rail Baltic's construction project does not design Tallinn's ring railway in its entirety, but it has been taken into account in a possible coincident section. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has provided input to the Rail Baltic Estonia private limited company that, when designing Rail Baltic railway, the section where the alternative to the Rail Baltic and Tallinn Ring Railway's Southern Track Corridor would be located in parallel in one corridor, it must be considered spatially that the Russian width, or dual gauge solution, may also be needed. We are considering a circular railway when designing Rail Baltic, but it is important that local authorities plan the corridor for this, especially the part where it does not run in a corridor parallel to Rail Baltic, during the renewal of their general plans. The third question: 'What are the volumes of goods going to Paldiski on the Tallinn railway in recent years? Are and how much dangerous cargo passes through Tallinn via rail and how are the risks grounded? What is the forecast of the volume of goods for the next few years? " Currently, one freight train is moving towards Paldiski every day. The volume of goods on the Estonian railway has decreased about three times in the last ten years, and in the past oil products mostly moved along it. In 2017, the total volume of Estonian railway infrastructure was 12.4 million tonnes, and the Paldiski route accounted for 0.513 million tonnes, or just over 4% of the total railway capacity. The main dangerous goods carried by rail are now fertilisers and no longer liquid fuel. The fertiliser was transported 4.4 million tonnes on the Estonian railway and 17200 tonnes of it, i.e. approximately 4%, was transported to Paldiski. Question 4: "What are you doing as a minister to make Kopli's freight station area become a cosy city space and not split the northern Tallinn settlements (Pelgulinna and Kalamaja)? What is the cooperation with Estonian Railways in this regard? ' Through the territory of Kopli freight station, many companies operating on the Kopli or Paljassaare peninsula have access to the railway. As long as these companies wish to maintain rail links, it will not be possible to close Kopli's freight station. The connections between the northern Tallinn settlements can be improved between Kolde puiestee and Volta Street with a multi-level light traffic bridge, which is also provided for in the overall planning of the Northern Tallinn district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U31	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you for your answers. I think that the most important thing is to ensure that we do not fall asleep and create a situation where, afterwards, the hand is spread: one railroad is done, the other is not there and solutions do not match. My question is this: how much can the volumes of goods that would need to be transported along such direct lines from Laged to Paldiski, for example, and what could be the volume of passenger transport? What is the state of planning by the Harjumaa municipalities in order to get this route corridor in place? Do you dare to say some kind of deadline for completion of the design process and when to talk about construction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U33	As I mentioned, the Harju County Government, which closed down the year before last, dealt with this issue and sees this route corridor in 2030+. For us, it is important that local authorities should be aware that the possible route corridor, the alternatives of which are now two, would not be able to build homes. Because once there are houses ahead, real estate development will eliminate the possibility of building a new railway with Russian track gauge in the future. I do not have any specific calculations of the amount of freight trains to pay for the investment, but according to the Estonian Railway survey, the construction of a ring railway would cost 120 million euros at today's prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U34	George Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Actually, I was gonna ask you about the cost. This EUR 120 million is derived from the approximate length of the ring railway. How tall would he be, the railroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U36	I can't tell you the full length right now. But only 1/3 of this would go in parallel with Rail Baltic as an alternative. But there are several railway objects that can be built in Estonia and which currently have no clear financial cover, along with Tallinn's ring railway. We are preparing an action plan to guide the development of public railway infrastructure for the years 2019 to 2024, and there are other choices similar to those of Tallinn's ring railway. The decision must be made to upgrade Haapsalu railway and Valga-Koidula section, as well as to increase the capacity of the Rapla railway section in Tallinn, or to electrify the entire railway section. These are all possible jobs that could be done on the railroad, but which require additional solutions. As for the length of the ring railroad, I can't tell you exactly the miles right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U37	Members of the Riigikogu have more questions to ask. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for these concrete, clear answers. As you yourself have just confirmed, you are a well-known advocate and supporter of public transport. The development of the rail network is in many directions. Are the priorities for the next few years, from 2012 to 2020 now clearly in place by the government, or are only preferences and financial coverage known?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U39	It is true that we are now at a time when the money from the previous European Union funding period has also been used to develop railways. The next funding period has not yet been closed, but we already know what investments must be made in the railways. The most important of these is the modernisation of traffic management systems, which are over 30 years old. The existing Russian track gauge requires €200 million for full renewal. Train traffic has become more popular every year. So we need point 1, new passenger trains and point 2, to expand the Baltic station, which has proved to be a bottleneck. These are the priority work that can be carried out in the coming years and which can be financed through the combined use of the European Union's budget for the next budgetary period and the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U40	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your answers. You mentioned the Haapsalu railway in your answers. What are the prospects that the Haapsalu railway can really be introduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U42	Thank you. As you know, the restoration of the Haapsalu railway is based on a study that recommended the restoration of the Haapsalu railway in two stages. The first of these is the Rice Family-Turba section, which has gone into procurement. The electric rail line could extend its current rice family line to the Turba settlement, which is as large as the Rice family in terms of population. The next paragraph needs a political decision. The Haapsalu railway has potential, in Haapsalu there is an interest in passenger trains. This line could be an electric railway, but there is currently no funding for building it in any development document. So it needs a political agreement after the elections. In the meantime, I was able to find information on the Internet that the track was 27 kilometres long.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U43	Very good! No further questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will close the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U44	Free mike. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U45	Good President and few colleagues. Our long day at work is coming to an end, and I'm going to talk a little softer. I'm talking about some porn. Porn, yeah! When we sat here on 24 October last year and the agenda was 20 points, we were talking about health services and many other important drafts, the alternative porn festival was opened in Berlin on the same day. It is a feminist and curative porn festival where transsexuals and homosexuals participate and where workshops are held. One of the workshop's names was "Chop Against Fascism." At this film festival, two films were won from the highest. One was 'Artist and pervert', the main characters of which were the ancient white man, the composer of the Nazi family, and his black wife, who was then playing the sadomaso games. The second film was 'The Daughters of Fuego', which showed the beautiful mountains in Argentina the way lesborgies take place. By the way, this festival started in its time with the support of German sots and greens. But why am I saying this? Because this time Estonia sent its people there too. We're talking about a man sent by the Fed. The report was published on 20 December last year; anyone can read it. What am I reading there? It's about ethical porn and how to look at things like that. There is no use of Viagra and orgasms are normal, not over proposed, etc. And recommendations are given to porn movie viewers. Support pleasant porn if possible! Support the locals! And sex work is a job. It is also said that, in fact, normal is not normal on the basis of a newer cribideology; in fact, it doesn't matter, there are all kinds of variations. And really, I'm gonna ask you again why I'm talking about this after the reason that we're getting through work. But because Estonia has sent its people there and the funding of these organisations has increased year after year. When Taavi Rõivas, a good colleague, was the Minister of Social Affairs in 2013, these forces were discussed by the LGBT association and the Feministeerium and other similar associations. At the time, EUR 6 000 was allocated for this purpose. It is now financed from the state budget with EUR 92000. And the Feministeerium, whose representative attended the alternative porn festival, introducing alternative, perverse sex games and discussing all of this, received EUR 60000 this year. In total, these organisations received EUR 250000 from the Estonian state. I would like to remind you that in the Christmas Tunnel program, which raised money for an intensive care room for premature children, some EUR 220,000 were donated. The Estonian state did not find an opportunity to finance it, although the Minister was opening the ward. I say, what's really going on? By the way, I also looked at the minutes of the last meeting of the Gambling Tax Council in December. What does it say? It says that the LGBT Film Festival received 2,500 euros, but the family mediators trainers and the Tallinn School Leaders Association Project 'Every person is valuable', when talking about only two projects, there were empty hands. This is a Council decision taken on 17 December last year. The question for me is what's really going on. Is this all normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U46	Thank you, Peter Ernits! It's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U47	Yes, thank you, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-28_U48	There are no more requests to speak in a free microphone. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 3.59 p.m.
