ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U1	Good morning, honourable members of the Riigikogu. We will begin the 4th working week Thursday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the board, I am prepared to accept inquiries and draft laws. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu initiates the Riigikogu decision 'Auditor's appointment to the National Audit Office 2019. For the purpose of monitoring the activities carried out in 2006'.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U3	Thank you. Let's do it the way the letter says. There are no further requests for referrals or drafts. Now we're going to do a presence check. There's 80 of us, 21 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U4	Let's get to the agenda. Today, on the agenda of Thursday, 10 October, the Social Democratic Party Group has launched a crucial national question on the future of 'Pension' who will pay for the trouble of her grandmother? ' debate. We have four rapporteurs: Tarmo Jüristo, Chairman of the Board of the Praxis think tank, Lauri Leppik, Senior Research Fellow at Tallinn University, PhD student and economic expert at the University of Tartu Kaspar Oja and Riina Sikkut, Member of the Social Democratic Party Group. Now I'll give you some explanations on the procedures. According to § 153 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group, determined the important national question of the future of 'Pension' who pays for the trouble of her grandmother? ' discuss next time. First, Tarmo Jüristo, Chairman of the Board of the Praxis think tank, gives a presentation for up to 20 minutes and answers to questions for up to 20 minutes. Secondly, Lauri Leppik, Senior Research Fellow of Tallinn University, as well as a presentation of up to 20 minutes and questions-answers for up to 20 minutes. Next comes Kaspar Oja, doctoral student at the University of Tartu, his presentation is also 20 minutes and questions-answers up to 20 minutes. Finally, Riina Sikkut, Member of the Social Democratic Party Group, presentation 15 minutes and answers up to 15 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask up to two questions to any rapporteur, but with this calculation, as I said earlier, within the 20 minutes that we have time for questions after each report. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. At the request of the Social Democratic Group, I also propose to the Riigikogu that the representatives of the political groups speak first. In this case, the speech shall be 5 + 3 minutes from the chair, if necessary, or up to 2 minutes from the speaking point of view. The Riigikogu will not take any decision to close the debate. The Social Democratic Party Group also proposes to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. But I think we'll come back to that when the clock approaches one, we'll see how many more questions there are, how long it has taken and whether we need to extend or not, and I'll put it to the vote at a reasonable time. There is also a statement that the materials of today's debate are available on shelves if anyone is interested in them. Let's start with the crucial national question of 'Pension' in the future, who's gonna pay for your grandmother's trouble? ' debate. The first waitress is Tarmo Jüristo, Chairman of the Board of the Praxis think tank. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U5	Honourable Riigikogu! § 28 of the Estonian Constitution formulates the general right of citizens to state aid in old age, while specifying that the types, scope and conditions and procedures of such aid are laid down by law. Therefore, as a society, we have agreed that we need a pension system that guarantees public support to citizens in their old age. However, reaching agreements on the details of this assistance is a matter of day-to-day policy. With my presentation today, I will try to give an overview of the overall limits and possibilities of these agreements. To do this, let me start from a distance and perhaps at first glance from things that are self-evident. However, it seems to me that it is important to go through these fundamental things so that our further debate today is in the right context. This is how I start with a trivial observation: we all age. Moreover, for everyone, the general pattern is that our ability to contribute both to society and to personal well-being is not uniform over our lives. From the point of view of today's discussion, it is important that this ability begins to decline as we get old and faster than our needs and expectations. The fundamental aim and nature of the pension system is to balance and compensate this difference. To that end, we have two fundamental choices. We can, firstly, retain part of our current economic product, whether for consumption and use at the level of the individual or society at retirement age, or, secondly, we can apply for part of the economic product of the future through investment, by acquiring financial assets or by relying on social policy transfers through tax redistribution. But even before we go to the technical choices of guaranteeing pensions, let us pause for a moment to think about the greater objectives that will guide these choices. At the most general objective level, we have a choice between a 'large' and a'small' pension system. It is clear that we must decide at what level we want to provide the state's support provided for in the Constitution with real measures and instruments. The Constitution does not tell us whether this should be understood as being below the limits of living, which would be poverty and deprivation, which in turn gives the right to state support or to maintain a relative level of income. This fundamental choice determines our next steps. Estonia's current position in comparison with European countries leaves no doubt that we are currently dealing with a very minimalist system. The theoretical net replacement rate of our pension system is the lowest in the European Union, around 40%. We have the highest risk of poverty in the countries of the European Union among people over the age of 65 living alone, almost 80%. As the income of a large part of the population aged 65 and over is close to the poverty risk threshold, the lowest reduction in the wage/pension ratio will result in a rapid increase in the number of people at risk of poverty. Estonia is the first in Europe in terms of the employment rate of retirement age, and we also have the lowest ratio between average retirement and career in the countries of the European Union. Whatever the attitude of anyone towards these ratios, the current state of affairs in the future clearly points to social tensions, and thus also political tensions, in order to shift the Estonian pension system towards a greater choice. Considerable pressure to have more money in the Estonian pension system in the future than today is more than likely. This leads us back to the fundamental choices mentioned above. The backbone of the pension systems of Estonia and the entire developed world is the so-called first pillar, which is social security financed by current taxes, with the English term pay as you go, where current working generations finance the pension liabilities of the state from their social tax towards earlier generations, now out of working age. The golden age of this system had gone by in the middle of the century and in the second half, where it was generally reasonable to assume that each next generation would be greater and more prosperous than the previous generation. This will make it easier for each next generation to bear the burden of the current pension, and the system as a whole will be stable and sustainable. Already in the late decade of the last century, it was clear that the future that in the meantime had become our day was completely different. Rapid declines across developed countries combined with an increase in life expectancy lead to an ageing population and, at times, to a shrinking population. This, in turn, means that systems based on a purely pay-as-you-go principle will become unstable and unsustainable over time. True, there are several options for compensating or improving the relationship between the working age generation and their tax dependent generation. First, of course, a higher birth rate, which is, unfortunately, easier said than achieved. The second handy valve, on which the various European countries have also relied to a large extent, is immigration. The third option is simply to increase the tax rate to compensate for lower receipts and higher costs. The fourth straw, once again used in many parts, has been a public debt. Fifthly, both options could delay the retirement age or further reduce the replacement rate by reducing the pressure on the pension system, but would put it in the hands of the people themselves. Here and now we do not have the scope to go into these choices, but a superficial look is enough to admit that none of them is a simple solution without consequences. These alternatives were in front of the people who designed Estonia's three-pillar pension system around the turn of the millennium. Today's debates and restructuring are centred on the so-called second pillar of this system, i.e. compulsory funded pensions. In essence, the second pillar is about bringing the tax burden of the future into today's day. All those who join the second pillar contribute 2% of their service on a monthly basis through social tax, plus 4% for future pension rights. This amount goes to the reserves built on the system of personalised accounts that are invested through private pension funds. As of today, Estonia's second pillar funds have total assets of 4.5 billion euros. This is the money that we have set aside individually and together in the last 17 years and by which less must the next generation contribute to our pensions. In comparison and contextual terms: the total estimated amount of liabilities of the first pillar of the Estonian pension system, i.e. state pension, is about twice the GDP, i.e. 50 billion euros. The core of the restructuring currently under discussion is the voluntaryisation of the current mandatory funded pension system. Estonia is not the first country to have gone this way. Similar changes in the past have brought with them the expected consequences. This does not mean, of course, that Estonia could not be an exception, but neither the theory nor the whole of the current empirical is giving rise to this expectation. Unfortunately, we do not have anywhere to take impact analyses or studies on the changes we are planning at the moment, which are prescribed by Estonian lawmaking practice and procedures. However, the little that we have is broadly in line with what could be expected, for example, from the recent experience of Hungary and Poland, or what would be predicted to us by behavioural psychology, behavioural economics and the financial behaviour of the Estonian people so far. Norstat's recent survey resulted in 28% of those currently joining the second pillar planning to withdraw their money from the funded pension system and 15% planning to self-manage their pension assets through the new pension account system to be created. First of all, of course, from the perspective of the pension system as a whole, this change is clearly a step towards a smaller system. It is highly unlikely that a voluntary pillar would bring more money to the system, but it is very likely that it will take it out of there. Here it is quite appropriate to stop and ask what is the objective that the current restructuring is expected to achieve. If this is the sustainability of the Estonian pension system, the voluntaryisation of the funded pension alone will certainly not achieve this. If the aim is to raise pensions, indeed, at the expense of those who give up their funded pension, the state will be able to contribute less to the reserve of future pensions and so much more to the well-being of the current elderly. At the same time, however, this idea should be considered to the end and it should be said that this is how we will solve the current, very serious problem of low pensions at the expense of the future even more seriously. In other words, this is a strange situation where today's policy aimed at a larger system will result in a smaller system in the future. There is reason to fear that the scope for future generations to find a solution to this problem will be even more open-minded than it is now. If the problem is the low productivity of the second pillar funds, this is a technical problem, and a technical solution should also be found. To treat low returns by losing the second pillar, which was one of the options initially considered, is similar to a situation where poor hair cutting is attempted to improve with guillotine. The optional interim option proposed today also makes it difficult to see how this could have a positive impact on the productivity of pension assets, as individual investment through pension accounts will actually continue to take place in the same funded pension system through these greedy intermediaries. Given the virtually non-existent investment experience of Estonian people in shares and bonds, less than 5% of the total population has invested their money, it is difficult to predict great success for this enterprise. It has also been said that the voluntary pension system gives people the opportunity to take responsibility and contribute to securing their old age. Unfortunately, we have very little evidence-based material to support such expectations. People's individual financial behaviour, including saving for the future, has been studied very thoroughly in scientific literature. Adam Smith already stated in his 'The Theory of Moral Sentiments' published in 1759 that the well - being of the future matters very little to us today. The last two and a half centuries have not changed anything in this regard. Among other things, Richard Thaler won the Nobel Prize for Economics in 2017. Thaler points out that, even if people have the capacity to make complex financial choices, and this, let us note, is a presumption whose validity is questionable for most people, we generally cannot be disciplined enough to actually act on these choices. These two very human shortcomings are the reason why it can be expected that a well-designed statutory funded pension system will result in a higher coverage than voluntary ones. This hypothesis was confirmed by the Eesti Pank Household Financial Behaviour Survey published last week, which again showed that the second pillar has accumulated significantly more savings than non-members. But as Minister of Finance Martin Helme said in his opening remarks at another seminar on pensions held in Eesti Pank last week, the political choice has been made and the changes to the second pillar will come true. In view of this, it may not seem worth discussing and arguing about whether it is a good idea to take them or not. However, it is still important to prepare for what they bring. I note that this is, of course, a job that could and should have been done before making decisions. Sweden prepared its 2003 pension reform for about ten years and eventually received a broad-based support of over 80% in Parliament. Our own first pillar changes a few years ago were also long and thoroughly prepared, discussed and agreed with the various parties. This was a much smaller change in scale and scope than the current process. We are talking here about decisions with very long and dispersal effects and which are very difficult, if not impossible, to turn back quickly if it turns out that the consequences are not what was hoped for. This is where you should have measured it nine times before you cut it. The election debate cannot replace the plans for drafting, stakeholder involvement, coordination of other ministries and everything else that we have today, as a matter of course, part of the legislative process and which the Riigikogu is unfortunately passing by in urgent processing of current pension changes. But back to the subject. Today's pension system has a number of things that can be improved and has a positive effect on pensions for future generations. The second pillar will not disappear and, at least according to current estimates, there will be a considerable number of people collecting pension assets. The second pillar payout system, which has already been substantially modified by recent changes, can be further improved by making it more flexible. The risk profiles of the funds and the choices of people's funds over the life cycle can be optimised in the future, information can be increased, average fees have room to go further down. All of this creates the conditions for higher returns than has been achieved so far. In principle, major reforms can also be considered in the case of funded pensions, for example, a system with a central Swedish provider, capable of delivering high economies of scale in costs, and the possibility of occupational pensions should be considered. However, there are also things to do about the first pillar, so that we are better prepared for difficult times in the future. Already today, the above options to alleviate pension pressures, including the possibilities for immigration and tax policies and the likely consequences of these options, need to be carefully considered. The indexation and extraordinary increase of pensions are only half of the work, and the other half must also be done. From the perspective of the four-year electoral cycle, these may seem to be far-reaching concerns. It may be tempting to expect today's demographic trends to reverse or that future economic growth will solve our concerns without having to face difficult decisions. Yes, it is not excluded that things are brighter than we have reason to believe today, but it would be irresponsible to only contribute to this hope for the future of our generation as well as the generation of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U6	Thank you to the esteemed waitress. There are questions for the waitress. I would like to remind you once again that for every waitress we have 20 minutes to ask questions, so let's try to fit in. Marika Tuus-Laul, first question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U7	Thank you very much for your word. And thank you for your report. It is clear to everyone that we have the smallest pensions in Europe, they must be raised and the future secured. But it has been said that this system of three pillars, which was made at the turn of the century on the recommendation of the World Bank, did not enter into force until it was no longer recommended by the World Bank, because it had failed in many countries. This system isn't working. There's a lot of lies here. For example, the fact that a person puts 2% himself and the state puts 4% more. In fact, this is also the 4% of the first pillar, which would have been the money of current pensioners and their pension would have been higher. I am asking you right now that we are describing the situation, but we have not said anything about solutions. Do you think the current system will serve more people and insure them in the future, or is it simply a bank working tool? The banks are fighting the most for it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U8	Thank you. Firstly, I do not quite understand exactly what the argument is that this funded pension system has failed internationally. There are a number of good examples of this system that he is working with very good results, one of which is Sweden, as I mentioned. If the question is whether the current system of Estonia serves people's interests or whether it could have been 4%, which the country adds to the people's contribution, which really comes at the expense of the rights of the first pillar, as I said in my report, is to be used to raise current pensions, then the answer is: yes, it could. But to come back to this subject, which I also touched on in the presentation, the second pillar is essentially bringing the tax burden of the future to today. There are many good reasons for doing so. You will probably hear more about all of this in subsequent reports than Lauri Leppik and Kaspar Oja speak a little more about numbers and statistics. One major reason indeed is the demographic situation in the most general sense, i.e. the deterioration of the relationship between the labour force population and people maintained through the social system in the future. This is also why the World Bank really started in the 1990s, when demographic change became predictable, to suggest that societies set aside supplies. Whether we set aside these stocks through a system of personal pension accounts or through the construction of a central reserve is a question of choice. There's plus and minus on both sides. If we do so by raising national reserves, there are political risks that our current system will somewhat mitigate and reduce, but at the same time our system has certain drawbacks. Indeed, one of the major shortcomings of the Estonian system has been the high level of costs and low returns during this period. But once again, as I said, this is something that you can look for solutions in a different way. I personally find it difficult to see that those people who are going to invest through their personal pension account system and leave the second pillar will be able to achieve better results in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U9	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U10	Thank you. As you understand from the first question, Mr Jyrosto, your text does not affect the questions, the questioners do not allow themselves to be disturbed. Similarly, neither the government nor the coalition allow themselves to be disturbed by analyses. The decision, as you said, has fallen. Everything you said in your presentation is true and always worth repeating, but it does not affect, as you can see, decisions or speeches at all. That is why I would ask you to try to give one so-called concentrate from what I have said in simple politicians' language and to talk about how this current decision affects the size of pensions and what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U11	Thank you for your question. As an analyst, I find it very uncomfortable to try to fit such a complex subject into a few sentences, but it is very difficult to do so. If you start from some point of view, first of all you have to say that this decision today really has long-term effects, some of which are immediately felt, some are only in the future. At the expense of the future, we will be able to make decisions that will alleviate problems and concerns in today's day, but if we go down this road here, I fully agree with those who say that this is the question of political choice, that is why I started my presentation, and if such a choice is made, then it is just a question of responsibility, if nothing else, to think about it to the end. We need to consider the consequences of these decisions in the distant future. And now that we get there, in the long run, it's not just a question of theory. It is a question of seeing what the consequences of making the second pillar optional in Hungary and Poland have been. I am not making a negative-positive assessment on this scale, just because we have seen in both of these countries that as a result, money has gone out of the pension system. There may be compensatory mechanisms, it may be argued that this money has moved into real estate, that people have made their own savings decisions on it. Yes, it is possible, but once again, if we look at everything we know about empirical and theory, there is no reason to believe that individual investments would provide us with a solid basis to cover future pension liabilities to the extent necessary. And I would like to emphasise once again: in the future, we will have a much larger proportion of the voting population, faced with the lowest net replacement rates in the same Europe, with 40% in the middle, but for many people it is less than 40%. This means that, in the future, we will have a very strong political and legitimate social pressure on pensions to rise. If we make this decision today, we should think about the ways and means that will allow us to cover the rapid growth of the first pillar in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U12	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report, you raised the question of what is this reform, I would call it dismantling, not reform as a goal. I think the objective is very clear: the government of Jüri Ratas needs a quick loan in order to carry out its daily activities. This actually comes out of this management. Therefore, I agree with you that, if governments of the same style continue to do so, the country will not have the ability to pay any additional pension in the future, which, as a result of this reform or demolition, will perhaps be lower than the current replacement rates. Do you share the idea that with this dynamic we as a country are clearly in total trouble because of the extra payment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U14	Thank you for your question. If you noticed, I never really used the word'reform' in my report. It wasn't a random choice. I wouldn't use the word you might have used on this one. If we are talking about the prospects for the Estonian state in the future in the face of pension pressure, I would go back to mentioning five major solutions of principle. In fact, I actually believe and think that these are all things that should be appreciated and watched. One way to solve the higher pension burden on the first pillar is by simple choice: raising taxes. How popular it would be, there is more question for you because this is the thing you have to face. But it is not even a matter of popularity, but there are also economic consequences of raising taxes, i.e. to think about where and at what cost they will be raised. When we talk about pension costs, once again, it would be a good idea to look at the proportions of how much of the Estonian state budget is made up of social costs and how much of them, in turn, are pensions. This means that when we are talking, for example, about raising the first pillar pension, we do not have the point of talking about property taxes. These are questions of varying magnitude. Raising taxes on assets does not change the ability to raise pensions to an extent that is felt by anyone in any way. It is also possible to do what Estonia has already done and many others too, namely to move forward the retirement age. This is one way, but it has its consequences again, we have to work longer, we have to work under more difficult conditions in our old age. It's one of the choices. Finally, there is actually another possibility, let's say it's out here in this hall: take out a loan. This is the path that several European countries have used, particularly Greece, to finance its pension system. Again, there are consequences. What am I saying? With all these things, these thoughts could be fully thought out and assessed as to the possible consequences. So on this point, I do not quite agree that the Estonian state will not have the means to raise the pension in the future; these funds will always be available, but they will have a price. Immigration is, by the way, one that I mentioned, and many of which have been mentioned during this debate. This would solve one problem because we would like to have people who can raise wages, but there are other problems involved, which I suspect people on the other side of the hall think are very serious. I would like to draw attention to an interesting matter. This year's indexation of pensions was made to a considerable extent. The indexation of pensions, as you all know, is made up of two components: the consumer price index and social tax receipts. Social taxes on temporary labour accounted for a considerable part of the social tax revenue component this year. This is once again a very dangerous place to rely on, because when the economic economy changes, the temporary Ukrainian labour force disappears very quickly and social tax receipts fall rapidly, while our indexation arrangements do not allow for sub-indexation. That means we're gonna have a shortage right now. Temporary labour is a very problematic issue in this regard, but it is already working by indexing and raising our first pillar pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U15	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Your example of the possibility of borrowing pensions, especially if you add Greece to it, is, of course, a little creepy and not a little bit. After the election campaign ended, when it was clear that it was going to change the second pension pillar, experts and scientists came up with their views and said what this would mean if we lost the compulsory funded pension. Three scenarios were proposed: the relative income of pensioners is falling, the tax burden is rising or the retirement age must be raised. Those were very considerable experts who said so. Why hasn't it worked?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U17	Thank you for your question. It's hard for me to answer that question. I've been on that side of the equation, i.e. the one who's said these things. On the side of why they haven't worked, it's hard for me to say something knowledge-based. I have an opinion on a few things, of course. It is certainly the case that the reputation of the Estonian pension system is currently not the best. According to a recent study, less than 7% of the population think that the Estonian pension system is fair. Whether this opinion is justified or not is a question in itself, but that is the case. Yes, there is no doubt about Estonia's current compulsory funded pension system, which has also tilted the general sense and criticism of people in the direction that perhaps this is something that should not be tried to work, perhaps it is already an inherently bad way. Again, I agree to take this position seriously, but then we should consider alternatives, think about the other options that will help us deal with the problems that the same second pillar, or compulsory funded pension, was designed to solve. But, yes, unfortunately, I cannot answer the question why it does not work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U18	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I fully agree with your assessment that the dismantling of this second pillar cannot be called a reform, but that it is an idea that is being tested, as was the case at the Eesti Pank seminar. But let's just assume it's going to work, like the Finance Minister promised at the seminar. We already have the lowest rate of net pension replacement and the highest risk of poverty. Let us now imagine this situation in ten or twenty years' time. We will exclude the following scenarios: immigration, tax increases, social taxes are already already high, living on public debt, raising the retirement age. Let's put these aside. Given your analytical potential and current knowledge of how many volunteers will be added, what this net replacement rate could be in ten and twenty years' time...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U20	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U21	... and the poverty risk indicator in ten or twenty years, if we rule out these five alternative measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U22	One of these five was the lower net replacement rate. It is difficult for me to give a precise answer to this right now, but according to these calculations, which, among other things, was mentioned in the seminar of Eesti Pank last week, it could be estimated or feared that it would be around 30%. We are talking here about the average theoretical net substitution rate. This is not a thing that can be extended to everyone, it is above the average for all pensioners and it can vary very much depending on the income of people, whether they have the second and third pillars or not, how much pension rights they have accumulated in the first pillar, etc. This variation is pretty wide. On this basis, it is difficult to say anything about any particular pension business in the future. Overall, it is currently not easy to see a way to stay with its overall 40%, probably in which case it would come down. But once again, being honest about this, I do not see this realistic possibility of none of these five options being used.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U23	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U24	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! This second pillar is a view of the future and, in some cases, a very long view, thirty-fourty years forward. If anyone knew what the economy, inflation and so on would be like in 40 years, it would be very good. I do not know of any group of society that would contribute so much to the future and be both solidarity and current pensioners, because half of Estonian pensioners, or 150,000 160000 people, live below the relative poverty line. They now contribute to the future that we will have in some cases in 30 or 40 years' time. In all the other countries where this three-pillar system and the second pillar exist, is there a pension contribution from today's pensioners, or has the state contributed separately to these funds? It's pretty important to know. Does everything just go through a earned pension or does the state contribute separately? It would create a completely different picture, because it seems to me that this is the way our current pensioners, to whom we are indebted and grateful, remain in that relative poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U25	Thank you for your question. I suspect that this is something I will not be able to respond to here in such a short time, in a few minutes. Pension systems tend to vary widely across countries and with many variations. As I said, their backbone or foundation has been the first pillar since the 20th century when they grew up and went to "mainstream." In this context, this comparison, which I have pointed out in the case of Estonia, that this 4.5 billion, which is in the second pillar, is currently about 10% of what we have in the first pillar. It gives an idea of how much money we are talking about and how much influence we are talking about. It is very different in different countries. There are a number of European countries, such as the Netherlands, where currently estimates of forward-looking net theoretical replacement rates are at 100%. This means that pensioners can maintain their relative level of income when they retire, and it does not fall. There is a very large variation between Estonia and the Netherlands. Similarly, there is a very large variation in the way different systems contribute. The Swedish system, which I mentioned, is basically similar to that of Estonia, i.e. people still contribute to it themselves by saving the state's contributions, but it is centrally managed through a central structure that keeps investment costs well down. This is a choice that could have been Estonia's choice, but, as I said, the political risk is much higher. This money is not on people's separate accounts; it is not human property; it is a reserve entrusted to the State. Reserves, however, are things that may be tempted to reach out during difficult times and may be fully justified. Then there is the danger that it might not exist while it is actually needed. So these are the choices. I would like to answer this question in this way: it is not fundamentally the most important choice, which technical instrument will be used to acquire and maintain future supplies. There are all kinds of options, each of them has pros and cons. I agree that the Estonian system really takes money out of the current pension turnover in order to cover the turnover of the future. However, it is important to bear in mind that Estonian pensioners are now close to the risk of poverty, with currently low substitution rates. In the future, if nothing is done, as I said before when I answered Aivar Sõerd's question, they will be even lower. Relative poverty is an indicator of inequality, not absolute deprivation. However, this is very likely to be worse in the future than it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U26	Thank you, waitress. 20 minutes is up. But since there's a lot of people who want to ask, I'm gonna go over time and give you one more chance to ask. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U27	Good waitress! Do you think it is ethical that private banks have been given the opportunity to earn huge profits on the pensions of the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U28	I wonder how I can answer that. It is simply not a question of ethics for me how this system is structured, it is a question of optimization, and it is poorly optimised, the whole system. Indeed, yields have been such as not to justify the fees charged by the banks there. So this way, I say, the ethical problem may be raised on the table, but the solution to this issue in the key to ethics is, in my opinion, a little bit of the wrong context to approach it. There may also be an ethical dimension that someone might want to consider and think about, but it would be a technical issue for me first and foremost. If we solve this technical issue, the ethical dimension will resolve itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U29	Thank you. A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U30	Thank you, Mr President. You said two questions for the waitress. I see the discussion is interesting. You have also said that it is very likely that we will extend the sitting by an hour so that this debate will really be constructive to the end. Perhaps we will be able to ask at least this one question in a particular case and later on from the following rapporteurs. We don't have to be afraid of working.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U31	I'd still stick to the rule we agreed on, the 20 minutes. I see that there are a number of people here who want to ask more questions, so I propose that we now call here the next waitress, Lauri Leppik, from Tallinn University, one of those who was in the process of setting up the pension system. A clever electronic system deletes all those who wanted to ask, but I took a pencil and wrote on the paper the names that were left out, and I give them the advantage of asking the next waitress, if that's okay. Thank you, Mr. Georgesto. For the next presentation, please, Lauri Leppik.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U32	Honourable Riigikogu! I will begin my presentation with the recognition that pension is a contribution to the social division of labour, and I believe that pension systems in one way or another will last as long as we continue to have a social division of labour. In his original role, just as Chancellor Bismarck of State, the German National Conservatory, created this system, pension was a replacement income for those who could no longer earn wages due to old age, in other words for those who could no longer participate in this division of labour. Later, in the 1940's, the British Liberal Lord Beveridge offered an alternative view of retirement. In his vision, the task of a pension would be to guarantee everyone a uniform, i.e. a non-wage minimum income and everything that goes beyond that minimum would be a person's responsibility. These two central pension tasks, on the one hand, guaranteeing a universal minimum income and, on the other hand, offering alternative income opportunities related to previous wages, are still relevant for us in Estonia. Although professional language use and metrics have changed over the years, the substantive issues remain the same. Now we call these goals pension adequacy, sometimes adequacy, and measure them with indicators, which Tarmo Jüristo has already drawn attention to in relation to older poverty risk and substitution rate indicators, compared to pensions and salaries. The impact of social policy choices on these two objectives varies from country to country. Disputes about the role of the state and the responsibility of the person and his family themselves, which is more important, whether the minimum income or the provision of a replacement income, whether the pension should depend on the salary, or whether the state should pay everyone a minimum pension at the same rate, these disputes have lasted for at least a century and are likely to continue. And rather, it should be considered as expected that each generation will return to these questions and discuss them. However, changing the choices made in the past is always difficult in the pension system and these changes are still possible with a very long twist, as you probably were convinced when you followed the discussion that was held in the context of the changes in public pension insurance adopted at the end of last year. It is true that Estonia's position in relation to the two central tasks of pension is not very good compared to other European countries, as it already sounded here today. The risk of poverty for the elderly living alone is high, which shows that our pension system has not been able to guarantee a sufficient minimum income, and we have a low average replacement rate, indicating that the objective of offering a substitute income is not well achieved either. Between these two objectives, Estonia has tried to find a certain compromise, but this has not been very successful in the context of limited revenue and conflicting expectations and interests. We are in a situation where the Estonian pension system does not provide either a high replacement rate or sufficient minimum income. But how can they be guaranteed? There are currently two principal options for financing pension. One is what we call current financing, intergenerational redistribution, and the other is what we call prefinancing, where each generation collects its own pension assets. Very many European countries use a mixed model that combines both current and pre-financing pension systems, and sometimes this mixed treatment also exists within a single pension system. For example, our neighbouring country is Finland, where the employment pension scheme, which in fact thousands of workers of Estonian origin rely on in their retirement age, is partly pre-financing. It must certainly be admitted that disputes over the relative advantages and disadvantages of current and pre-financing pension schemes have lasted for years; this is not a new dispute. As early as 1966, American economist Henry Aaron formulated these conditions was later called Aaron's principle or Aaron's theorem, where the pre-financing pension system has an advantage over the current-funded pension system and when the situation is reversed. The principle formulated in the article 'Social Insurance Paradox' compares the pension fund's rate of return with the change in the number of persons insured and the product of wage growth. But here are two nuances. Aaron's incomparability cannot be assessed in a short window, in a five-year perspective, but should be assessed for the entire period of work and retirement, i.e. a long period of 40 to 60 years. The question here is how well we can predict the future on the basis of history. And even then, Aaron's principle applies only to the recipient of the average salary and may not equally apply to the recipient of the lower or higher average salary, depending on the pension formula and the redistribution that lies in it. The different types of criticism of the funded pension system are not new, it has come from both the academic world and politicians, true, in the past mainly from the left wing of the political spectrum. Perhaps one of the most vocal critics has been Joseph Stiglitz, who received the Nobel Economic Prize in 2001, although not for the criticism of the pension system, but for the theory of asymmetric information. And the focus of his criticism is not on funded pensions as such, but on the system of individual pension accounts chosen by several countries in Central and Eastern Europe for funded pensions. The recent passionate Estonian pension debate has focused on the issue of the compulsory and voluntary nature of the second pension pillar. That, too, is not a new question. The voluntary nature of the second pillar was discussed for quite a long time before the start of the funded pension, in 2001 and 2002. But in fact, this discussion began earlier, in the mid-1990s, when the then Isamaa submitted drafts to the Riigikogu which proposed the extensive privatisation of the Estonian pension system, so that only the payment of the national pension would remain the role of the state, in addition to which the occupational pension funds would have been created as a form of compulsory insurance. 25 years ago the words of Ilmar Pärtelpoeg sounded from this remote control: 'The sooner we begin the transition from the distribution principle to the collection principle, the sooner we create a strong modern social protection system that guarantees the well-being of our people even when they cannot do it themselves any more. " Today, these words illustrate the enthusiasm of the mid - 1990's that the funded pension solves all the problems of the pension system and that sharing must be replaced by collection as soon as possible and to a large extent. At that time, enthusiasm has replaced some with deep pessimism, others with sober estimates. The OECD regularly publishes reports on Member States' pension systems, including funded pensions. There are indicators for the volume of funds, real productivity, the proportion of entrants. In Estonia, the main focus of this report has been our low ranking in the real production of pension funds in recent years, although this place has not always been as low as in the latest reports. However, on the basis of the same or the same OECD reports, we can also ask whether it is the case that voluntary funded pension schemes are, as a rule, more successful than compulsory. If we compare the returns of national pension funds using funded pension schemes, we do not find such a pattern that the long-term average real yield of these funds in countries with voluntary funded pensions is higher than in countries with compulsory funded pensions. We see that in several countries where there is a funded pension or where some part of the pension system is based on collection and compulsory accumulation, real productivity is quite high. However, we see a pattern that in countries with compulsory funded pensions, the assets of pension funds are much larger than in countries with voluntary funded pensions, reaching more than 200% in Denmark and close to 200% in the Netherlands. But I would also like to draw attention to another figure in the same report. Let's look at the proportion of people entering funded pension schemes. In Lithuania, until this year, until 2019, the second pension pillar was quite similar to the voluntary pension pillar in Estonia. Nearly 70% of the working age population have joined it there. In Switzerland, where the second pillar is compulsory, but some exceptions apply to accession, 75% of the working-age population of the Circa have joined. These facts do not seem to confirm that the mandatory or voluntary pension scheme is the most important and central issue. A voluntary but high accession rate, and a mandatory system that allows for exceptions, can produce quite similar results in coverage. Nor does the practice of other countries suggest, on the basis of the same OECD report, that making compulsory collection optional would in itself increase the yield of pension funds and turn the funds towards the customer, as some commentators have hoped. The central issues of the second pillar are efficiency, protection of the interests of pension collectors and information. These questions do not disappear or resolve themselves by means of some magic wands. The example of Great Britain points out that, on the contrary, questions about the protection and information of the interests of pension collectors became much more topical after making the use of collected pension assets more flexible for people aged 55 and older in 2015. The number of investment frauds increased significantly. These are not simple thefts where crooks run away with their wallets, but more complex financial scams, where they allow a high rate of return on risky investment projects that unfortunately fail. In August of this year, the UK Financial Supervisory Authority, based on a survey conducted by them, warned that up to 5 million British pension savers could be exposed to risk of pension fraud and then published detailed guidance on how to recognise potential pension fraud. In addition to such a macroview, however, an individual-level view is also important. In a situation where we are and where the replacement rate of the first pillar, based on our current financing, is one of the lowest in Europe, there is no person who wants to rationally plan his future, who wants to prepare for old age, who does not want to remain dependent on his descendants or who, independently of their personal will, does not have them, who wants to spread risks and who can save only by small amounts, although many other options than to turn to some pre-financed pension scheme, because it is not possible to buy an additional pension from the state. This service is not provided by the State and, unfortunately, could not be provided. If the level of subsistence and the proportion of people affected in society are to be considered as substantive issues, funded pension systems must be as effective as possible, regardless of whether they are compulsory or voluntary. The pension funds of the second Estonian pillar have received a lot of criticism and I agree that some of this criticism is well founded. However, we could think of a different pension pillar than cooperation between the public and private sectors. The private sector provides a public service. This is the PPP, the public private partnership that we have been talking about a lot recently. PPP is not just the construction of roads or the repair of school buildings, and basically Estonia's second pension pillar is also the PPP project. However, this is not and cannot be a simple delegation of functions, but requires a target device and a rolling effort from both parties, both the public sector and the private sector. In principle, such cooperation in the area of pensions can work well. Another example is the Finnish work-related pension scheme. At the same time, from Denmark, we can give examples of how mandatory pension funds have in turn contributed to the financing of large PPP infrastructure projects. Finally. Surely we should not only discuss pensions but rather discuss the financial well-being of older people more widely. The central issues are the level of income in old age, the proportion of the elderly affected and the sustainability of our systems. One can agree with the view expressed in the Eesti Päevaleht Olavi Israel that these pension pillars should be more than less, but the guarantees and working standard solutions must nevertheless be and are important for our livelihood. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U33	Thank you. I understand there's been a report. Since, at the end of the previous debate, I promised that I would now give the floor to Heljo Pikhof, first of all, to those who were left out of the list last time, because the time was up, then I would give the floor to Sven Sester, then Annely Akkermann and then Anti to the Polish forest. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U34	Thank you. Thank you very much for your good presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U35	One second, there'll be a procedural question. [[There's talk in the hall.]] Yeah, but you didn't push yourself in now. If you push yourself in, I'll follow the same principle. Yeah. Okay, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U36	I'll start again. Thank you for a very good presentation. I'd ask you that. If the funded pension system were to be made much more attractive, i.e. that a person himself could contribute 3% or 4% instead of today's 2%, perhaps 5% and the state still 4%, and that if a person loses part of his or her capacity to work or becomes unable to work, he or she would be able to withdraw money from the pension fund at the same time or start paying money from the pension fund monthly before retirement age, would this be one way of ensuring that as many people as possible would become members of the funded pension scheme if it suddenly became voluntary?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U37	I'd say a little bit more. [[???Siim Kallas: 'Aga mitte liiga laialt.'???]] In my opinion, in the case of these schemes, which are discussed by the coalition, a line should be drawn between two different pension policy issues. One of them concerns voluntary participation in the second pillar or, more specifically, the possibility to stop collecting; in English, the opt-out option is spoken. And the second question concerns whether and under what conditions payments of the second pillar are possible before the retirement age. I think that these are completely different issues of pension policy and should not be discussed in a 'blend' way. The voluntary nature of the second pillar does not necessarily mean that payments can be made before the retirement age. But I now come to a specific question that also touched on these moments. Yes, it is certainly important what messages are being made about this plan, what vision is being offered about the future: is it such a disaster rhetoric that everything falls apart and run, who can, or is it still a rhetoric that leads people to think about and prepare for their elderly age and then to provide different incentives from the state? I think that the concrete proposals that were made here are all worth discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U38	All right, Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U39	Thank you, Mr President. It is good to see that, compared to, say, the context of the year or the last six months, the debate in society has itself changed. I'd say a year ago it was said that everything was fine and that there was no need to change the system, but now it is said that some changes could still be made. And the question is what these changes could be. I'd rather be interested in your vision. You mentioned Denmark as an example in your speech, where the assets of the pension fund exceed 200% of GDP. In my opinion, if I'm not mistaken, I think a person pays either 7% or 9% of his salary, maybe that's even higher than he saves every month. And the fact is, the more you set off your salary every month, the bigger your pension will be. I do not think any political party will dispute this. Would you actually see that not today's system remains, but rather the percentage that is paid on a person's income would be even higher, so that the pension would also be higher? Do you see that the situation could be as it is today, or could there be any changes? What is your vision at this moment? You gave an overview of recent history, but how would you see the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U40	Analysts have this good advantage, which sometimes there may be a shortage that we can look at things on the one hand and on the other, nor do I have to Yes, it is a question of going back to Tarmo Jüristo's speech, whether we want a larger system or whether we want a smaller system. And in this picture, the answer is very simple. If we want a bigger system, it will probably not be possible to achieve this within the framework of the funding we have been operating in so far. If we want a smaller system, only a system that ensures a minimum income, then it would indeed even be possible to reduce the social tax rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U41	Now, Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U42	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. And thank you very much for your constructive presentation, Mr. Lepik. I also listened to the presentation by Martin Helme at the seminar between Eesti Pank and the International Monetary Fund. There were undisputed experts gathered in that hall and the first message from the Practitioners and the Minister of Finance to them was that you can discuss what you want here, the matter has been politically decided. And the last message was that if you want to discuss something, discuss how to implement this decision as effectively as possible. It reminded me of the basic form of quality management that the right things must be done at the right time, in the right way, the right and the first time. However, since I know from among the financialists only a few experts with weak arguments who support this reform, I would ask from the perspective of what financialists, experts and fund managers can do to make this current ideologically wrong decision damage in 2050 2060. As little as possible of senior citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U43	Yeah, that's not an easy question. I think the fund managers are still operating within the framework that the legislator gives them. The fact that they are trying to maximise their profits is also possible. I would rather refer to the reasoning that I put forward in my presentation that the second pillar is, in a sense, such public-private cooperation. This requires a target device from both sides. The question is what framework can fund managers operate in. I remember in a 2002 newspaper article I was more of a cautious supporter of the line, saying that in the situation where the second pillar was created, the task of the state should have been to curb the active sale of pension funds. It didn't happen back then. I think that now that the context is changing, we can probably see something similar: the fund managers are starting to make a fresh effort to just rhetorically convince people. On the other hand, we are likely to hear again the voice of those who have also often spoken in this reform and who say that money is on fire. I think something similar might happen at the start of this change.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U44	The previous speaker made quite a clear statement that, in the long term, immigration could generally solve the problem of pension funds and the system for the preservation of pensions. However, it is 2016 to 2017. Professor Allan Puur said in the Estonian Human Development Report that the notion that immigration would help to cope with an ageing population is erroneous. At the same time, our potential so-called labour reservoirs, such as Ukraine and other Slavic countries, have a lower birth rate than in Estonia. Is it not like a pyramid scheme to rely on immigration in such cases, and how do you feel about the fact that one of the solutions here, in a more general philosophical way, you have already mentioned 2050, is immigration in order to maintain the current pension arrangements?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U45	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U46	I am certainly not arguing with my good colleague, Allan Puur. I know what he wrote in this report, and I agree with this approach in the big picture. It seems to me that Tarmo Jüristo did not claim to be quite that way either, but rather pointed out that it was one of the principal alternatives to how these solutions of the problem are often presented. It is known that, in a situation where we are not a 'closed system', we are a small open economy in which people move and capital moves, balancing the income of the pension system with current financing can take place through labour immigration. And as Tarmo Jüristo pointed out, temporary labour has increased the collection of social tax in Estonia in recent years. On the other hand, the funded pension system involves the export of capital, i.e. the investment of pension assets in other countries, supposedly in countries with a better demographic context, which are ageing at a lower rate or later. These are the analytical options for how the first pillar system or the second pillar system can cope in the context of an ageing population. These are not necessarily 'global solutions' to the global pension problem up to the end of time, but in such a medium-term perspective they are part of the portfolio of available options.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U47	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please! And then we'll go to the check-in line.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have an interesting example for you to give of what happened to a friend of mine who, in his time, decided to collect the child's wedding insurance. He put those rubles away a lot, it was a lot of money back then, and when it was time to get the money, it was only 15 cents left. Consequently, I think that I am not wrong in the fact that the purchasing power of money decreases in principle over time. I also think that I am not wrong in the fact that the value of money placed in pension funds is highest when it is used by pension fund managers to charge management fees and other operations, with the fund's productivity being not high. Since you have said that you are an analyst, I ask you, what is the purchasing power of money, for example, between 2000 and 2019, if we take a ratio of 100 euros, and as an analyst, you will certainly be able to answer the question of how much money can have a purchasing power in 30 to 40 years' time if the basis is 100 euros again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U49	This example probably came from that period, which remained at the beginning of the 1990s, when hyperinflation was known to have occurred in Estonia. I cannot and cannot predict whether such a period could ever happen again in Estonia. I hope not. On the basis of my limited knowledge and competence, it seems to me that controlling inflation is an important task for the European Central Bank. Now this part of the question of the change in purchasing power over a period of 30 years. I admit that this, too, is not my'main area of competence', so I do not want to enter the level of incompetence here in order to anticipate the development of inflation in the next 40 years. But I note that there are a number of European countries where the problems that we and I talked about in our presentation, such as the high risk of poverty for pensioners and the low rate of substitution, are not so topical. Here, for example, the Netherlands, which largely rely on the principle of collection in its pension system, as well as Denmark. We could ask, if they can do it, why can't we?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U50	Thank you. Now, Jürgen Ligi's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U51	Thank you. Good waitress! As has been said here twice, our pension system is very minimalist. Is it justified for such a system to talk about this kind of voluntary freedom as the most important fact? If your answer is yes or so and so, please state the reasons why it should not apply to the first pillar. What are these fundamental differences between the voluntary nature of the second and the first pillars?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U52	Yes, undoubtedly this whole discussion of voluntary-obligatory nature, which could be seen as an ideological choice, will still be placed as an ideological choice in some real context. In this context, the level of Estonian pensions is relatively low compared to the level of other European countries. Of course, we could say why we compare ourselves with these other countries and that we are creating our own truth. Sadly, many people use such comparisons. Compared to the nearest countries, as in Finland, as in literature, reading about other countries. So I would say that this voluntary-obligatory discussion is still in the context where we are in Estonia today, where the overall level of pensions is rather low and our system is rather minimalist.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U53	Thank you. One more question. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your presentation, you gave a commendable overview of the practice of other countries. And just as this seminar organised by Eesti Pank sounded, practice in other countries has generally shown that volunteering does not increase productivity. The previous report concluded that if the coalition's plan were to pass, we would be faced with a deterioration of the net replacement rate, an increase in the risk of poverty. In this coalition's plan, I cannot identify anything other than that it is to create today's prosperity at the expense of the future. You have pointed out that perhaps there is still one problem that this matter solves by the fact that fund managers are starting to make more effort. Well, it could be, maybe not. But are you able to identify a few other problems that the coalition plan will solve, apart from making more effort on the part of the fund managers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U55	If I answer briefly and honestly, I can't. But if you ask me for my personal position, I say that my views are slightly different on two issues, which I also pointed out. In this discussion, the topic of voluntary participation in the second pillar and the issue of payouts before the retirement age are confused. And I will no doubt see the part of the proposed changes concerning the second pillar before retirement age when there is no so-called social risk: a person is not completely unable to work and does not have any other exceptional circumstances. I am looking very critically at this part of the plan. This means, in essence, lowering the level of compulsory social protection in a situation where this level is low today. And secondly, it actually increases the income inequality of retirement age. For this reason, I think that, throughout the ensuing discussion, these two topics should be treated separately from the voluntary nature of the second pillar and the granting of payments before the retirement age.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U56	Thanks to the waitress! Thank you, Mr. Lauri Leppik. Now this report has also been heard. We're going to the next presentation and I'm going to ask for a speech chair in Kaspar Oja, a doctoral student at the University of Tartu and an economics expert. Again up to 20 minutes of report and then 20 minutes of questions-answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U57	Hello, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. I am talking about saving for retirement, and I am doing so in the context of macroeconomics. The starting point could be that we have an ageing population. In economic theory, we know that people prefer to smooth down consumption, which is beneficial. Estonia will continue to be an open economy, hopefully this will continue to be the case in the future. We know that Estonia's economic growth in the future will slow down not only because the population is ageing, but also because people are becoming wealthier and because of this, the convergence that has pushed us so far disappears. And it is known from history that in developed countries, the return on capital has exceeded total productivity, in principle economic growth. Why are we talking about this today? Probably the most acute question is that the electoral structure is changing. And as the previous speakers have already said, this trend does not turn. If we look at this figure, we can see that there has been a quite sharp change in the proportion of young voters over the last five years, which has decreased, is going down in the next ten years, and the proportion of voters who are approaching retirement age is increasing. So pension problems are becoming more and more important. Perhaps talking about education, for example, or talking about future pensions, becomes less important and talking about the current pension becomes more important. When it comes to the ageing population and the labour force, I have put on track the so-called demographic labour market flows: on the left we see that around 20,000 people came to the labour market every year during the 2000-2010 period, and on the right there are exits from the labour market. About 20,000 people left a year during the 2000-2010 period, and in recent years it has been the same. However, in recent years around 6 000 people have entered the labour market less than they are now leaving or when they were in the old days, and this structure remains more or less in place. There are different ways to overcome it, one option already mentioned is immigration. But this is the picture of where we are in terms of labour supply. Tarmo Jyristo mentioned earlier that immigration is already having an impact. I have put together a number of factors in this diagram behind the rise in pensions advertised for the coming year. As you can see, the increase in income tax for some pensioners reduces the average increase in pensions, while the extraordinary increase in pensions increases it by 7 euros. About the same amount as the exceptional pension increase is being made by short-term workers, and this is because they pay social tax here and thus increase the pension index. In addition, there is a small impact on the fact that immigration has generally been positive, and this also pushes up the pension in Estonia. So we actually see the impact of immigration. Whether it is permanent or temporary, it will be a question of the next few years. But I'm coming to the economy now. From economic theory, we know that saving is beneficial because it makes people's well-being greater. The classic example is that we assume that we have two people, one person has an income of 1000 euros per month, the other person has 500 euros per month. If we give each of us EUR 100, the person whose income was EUR 500 per month is likely to have more prosperity than the person whose income was EUR 1000 per month. And so is life expectancy. In general, if we have any savings for those periods when we have lower incomes, we are likely to benefit more from savings in those periods than we lost in the well-being of those periods when we saved. This is the so-called Friedman's long-term income hypothesis, for which there is also mathematical proof. Now the question is how to do it in practice. The first option is the redistribution between members of society, for example through progressive income tax or the first pillar of the pension discussed in this Chamber today. Another option is saving by means of stocks. Here, there was already this period of rapid inflation in the early 1990s. In this regard, I remembered my grandfather, who bought himself some groceries at the time, for example, bought himself a very large pile of matches on the kitchen cabinet and then used them more or less to death. This is also, in principle, one way to save your pension. But the kind of products that we can buy in advance and that we can keep for the rest of our lives don't have much. There is another option to invest in the local capital market. In a closed economy, it's the only way. But because Estonia is an open economy and because we have an open capital market, we can also invest abroad. And this is an additional opportunity for an economy like us. One thing worth paying attention to in terms of saving is that saving alone is not enough to get some kind of funded pension for retirement. In fact, insurance solutions are needed, and Mart Jesse wrote an opinion article on the subject some time ago. Let us imagine that the person who enters the labour market today decides that he will start saving to have a higher pension, and he will retire at about 70 years of age. However, about half of those who retire at the age of 70 are still alive at the end of their life expectancy. And these people will remain in poverty because they have used up their pension savings. In order for pure savings, without insurance solutions, to be able to get out of retirement, significantly more savings are needed than is actually effective. In order for the funded pension to work, there is a need for some kind of insurance solutions, payout solutions enabling the pension to be paid on a long-term basis. The second pillar is very important here, and this is because the second pillar is such a large general pension saving system in society. If there is such a thing, it is likely that these solutions will also be created to allow retirement pensions to be taken out in such a way as to be effective and not to have to save too much and not to be spent. It is precisely payout solutions that are important in this regard; they should also be contributed to. The question here is whether the banks have to earn from them. These solutions can be created freely by the state, such an organisation we have, for example, KredEx, which offers certain insurance solutions. If we come to an open economy, this figure shows a classic macroeconomic textbook on savings in the open economy. If we look at this orange line, which represents the level of investment at some interest rate, by the way, this vertical line shows the interest rate, and let's look at this blue line, the saving S1, which represents saving at some kind of interest rate level, we see that the higher the interest rate, the more saved or the less invested. In a closed economy, the interest rate level is where savings and investment lines intersect. But suppose that more savings are being made in the economy, some kind of decision is coming that we need to save for retirement, then in an open economy, what happens is that the "saving" line shifts to the right. The interest rate does not change because the capital markets are open. If more savings are made in one country, there will be fewer extra foreign money, or if the savings are invested abroad, then it will simply be in place of foreign money. As a result, the level of investment remains exactly the same. What happens is that the current account surplus changes. The current account will then simply go to surplus and this is a normal result. We can say that all of this is such an economic theory and obviously applies to a long period of time. Let's assume for a moment that this doesn't apply in the short term. Suppose, during this period, when we had a second pillar system, it did not work. In that case, I'd say, "Congratulations, very good! ' because it was a period when we had a very large current account deficit, we had a very large inflow of capital. And it was probably that, at that point, if we managed to create a bit of a reverse flow, it cooled the economic boom that we had and gave us a better long-term economic growth because the boom was smaller because of it. Now, in the very long term, we could expect this economic theory to work and the fact that local investments are currently being saved in the second pillar to be unaffected in no way. There has been a lot of talk about the rate of return on our pension funds. One interesting contradiction in this debate is that historically the return on capital has actually been stuck to growth. About five years ago, therefore, there was a very large discussion of property taxes worldwide. It was argued that faster than growth, the return on capital makes the rich more and more rich. This was clearly such an ideological argument. But in fact, this nuance has been studied and it was in August of this year that an article in a magazine such as The Quarterly Journal of Economics, which looked at very long capital yield time series, very long growth time series in developed countries, came to the conclusion that indeed, historically the real rate of return on capital has been about twice as high as growth. This figure shows two periods: first, let's look at this for the whole sample, and then the second is after 1980. From this point of view, it appears that the return on capital has been relatively similar in the long term. The question is why our second pillar funds will not achieve this. Part of this capital is something that investment funds simply cannot access. This implies that they should have enough freedom to invest. You could go to the funds with a lot of money in their hands. If the system is voluntary, the money will not be that long and it will not be possible to make such investments. There is also a role here in the fact that it is likely that such investments can be made more in a mandatory system than in a voluntary system. Just a reminder. The higher the country's standard of living, the slower its economic growth will normally be. It's shown in this diagram. We can see that GDP per capita in 2000, which in Estonia was just under 50% of the European Union average in 2000, and we can also see the average economic growth in the following period, which in Estonia has been around 4% of the population. If we look at those countries with 80% of the European Union average, the average growth rate is already significantly slower. So the growth we have seen in the past will probably not be seen in the long term. A comparison could also be made here that according to approximate estimates, Estonia is about 20 years behind Finland in its economic development. We take the economic growth of Finland 20 years ago and take the moving average of 10 years, reducing more or less one economic cycle. The Estonian line, which is blue, ends last year. Let us see what the corresponding economic growth in Finland would be. We see that this growth is actually slowing down. If we go down the same path as Finland, our growth should continue to slow. This graph shows nominal growth, unlike the previous graph. So such a first-pillar system, which is simply based on tax revenue, is unlikely to give us as rapid growth as capital gains if investments are made in a sufficient number of instruments. I'd end up morally on A.H.Tammsaare. By the way, this slide should have a typo. A.H.Tammsaare wrote a miniature "Kaaren and Sons," the meaning of which is that life is a circle. On this basis, perhaps we should not put our pension burden on the next generation, but perhaps we should let the next generation take care of our grandchildren. According to Tammsaare, the son who promised to care for his mother in his old age threw the raven into the river, but the son who said that in return for her to care for him, he would take care of his own children, carried the raven across the river.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U58	Thank you. Now you have questions about the registration order. Heljo Pikhof, first question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U59	Thank you for your insight. Maybe I'd like to remind you of some recent history. I remember that when I was an advisor at Eiki Nestor's, the health insurance system, the unemployment fund system and the pension system were created. If health insurance were voluntary, I would be sure that those who are not yet elderly, or those who are not sick, would not join it in most. The same is true of the unemployment fund. I remember very well how many people were very upset before the mast that they had to pay some part of their salary, after all, they wouldn't be unemployed. But after that, these people just became unemployed. My question, however, concerns retirement payments. How to increase the pension balance of retirement age even if he is already paid out, so that the amount that was once set, for example EUR 50, will still not be EUR 50 in ten years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U60	Yes, I also think that today the biggest deficit in Estonia's second pillar system is payouts. Therefore, because we only have a system that allows zero-risk payouts, it is necessary to make their pension funds "safe" quite early, to put them in bonds, and thus actually suffer from a return before the retirement age. Estonian laws also promise to make a payout system that is an insurance with an investment risk, but the problem is that it is not offered by anyone. And no one is likely to offer this in part because this discussion has started, too, that insurance funds should not invest in such a payout solution if they know that after a few years it will no longer be necessary. Given that Estonia is small, it is very difficult to offer such insurance solutions at all. It is clear that insurance solutions are better offered if the number of people who share risks is higher. And this may be an area where, in fact, some sort of, really, national insurance solutions could also be considered to help make payouts better. This does not mean that the state should take risks, but the question is that this infrastructure, how to share these risks between people, should somehow be developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U61	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U62	Thank you. How do I ask now? The analyst has to answer that way, but you didn't find any good words about this pension reform, which is actually an elephant in this room. But try to bring out some positive features of the social system, the economic system, productivity, justice in the dimension of this government's'reform', I am vexatious about what the decision has been passed on and on which we are allowed to speak, but that does not matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U63	If you try to make a positive point, I think this debate in itself is positive, raising problems: that there are problems with productivity, the efficiency of the collection period. It's all right, actually. The separate question is whether this solution will work. Rather, this solution does not really solve these problems. It's like Tarmo Jyristo said before, if you have a bad haircut, you'll solve it with a guillotine. That's unfortunately not helping.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U64	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If I understand correctly, in 2002, when the state created this system, one important keyword was that the state was based on a certain type of conservativeness, and that was, in my opinion, very important. Given what happened in certain financial markets during the economic crisis, etc., it could be said that if the country had been a very pillow-ball, perhaps the money, which is now called a little, would have been really little. Although, according to the data of Eesti Pank, the average rate of return on funds has been connected in any year, still more than 3%, taking into account the negative interest rates that the bank may have offered to the customer. But my question is, why do we have the prevailing attitude of wanting to make progress on the market with a very low contribution, based in some ways on income, low risk and high return? How can a high rate of return be achieved at low risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U66	Yes, risk and return are mostly linked, and that is the question where such a compulsory system has certain advantages over the voluntary system. There is a significant difference in the investment horizon. If we imagine investing our savings for 40 or 50 years, they can be placed in projects where this money actually comes back in a very long time, and that is what classical pension funds have done. But let's imagine now that we have pension insurance, but we're always able to withdraw that money, and we're probably going to have to do the moments when the money really needs to be taken out. In times of economic crisis, many people probably need to withdraw it if the deposit is voluntary and money can be withdrawn. This is precisely where long-term investments are the most difficult to sell, which means that if there are these long-term investments, they will lose their value quite a lot. Another option is that responsible management companies simply do not make investments that are long-term. But that, in turn, means that they will be able to earn less profit for many years. So, on the basis of a purely theoretical debate, mandatory savings have certain advantages over voluntary savings.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U67	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U68	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, I'm gonna put aside the past, which I'm gonna go through more than that, although it's true, the best statistics come out of there. The fact is that in the last 17 years, Estonian pension funds have been among the least productive in OECD countries and have been among the highest fees. It's a fact, but let's put it aside, look to the future. Your one slide clearly showed that saving is beneficial, and you also pointed out the reasons. I would like to come back to the same question that I asked an earlier rapporteur. I, too, fully agree that the more you set aside each month, the higher the pension you will be in retirement. It's natural, it's understandable that you don't spend money on everyday expenses, you put something aside, whatever the percentage of investment is. But what do you think this real place is? Let's just say that the respondents to the proposal of the so-called Fatherland Party have not said what this right place could be. Rather, try now to contrast voluntary versus return. I think it's the wrong course. I think volunteering in nature is the right direction. If we're talking about saving now, the Fatherland is clearly in favour of saving. But I'd like your opinion as an analyst. Perhaps you are saying that 2% of your salary is not good, maybe you should save 5% or 7% of your salary. I assure you that it is very likely that the pension will be higher in the future. What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U69	There must have been a number of issues. Should I save more? If we wanted pensions to be bigger, we probably would. Now this volunteering versus compulsoryity. Yes, it is right to distinguish several issues here. One is this early withdrawal of money, the other is voluntary payment. The same reform of voluntary funded pensions has been carried out by other countries, and these reforms include strong behavioural economics points that need to make people save more. One recent example is Lithuania, where this reform was carried out very quickly. There are many problems, but as an example of a voluntary pension scheme, it is quite proud. The payout solutions that are currently missing in Estonia were also considered there. By reforming the system of voluntary funded pensions, this reform, such as that in Lithuania, could be one of the principles on which to base itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U70	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U71	Thank you. In many countries, it is a dream of neoliberals and others on the extreme right so that pension can be pushed under the control of market forces. The President of the United States, George W.Bush, comes to mind, but so do many others. Your presentation was also based on clear right-wing assumptions, the friedmanic idea that makes sense to this system. But, of course, it is forgotten that in the long term, we are all dead, and if we give pension to market forces, some will die very poor. But you're here as an expert invited by the Social Democrats, a little weird, of course. Please explain what socialist workers' money is at the mercy of compulsory fund managers, in the fact that the state forces employees to become financial capitalists in a mandatory manner and says that if you do not still invest in the financial markets, you will not be worth your pension. As an employee, you don't have to get a pension. What's socialist about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U72	I have to say, I came here today with a hat. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But I agree! I agree with this statement that such a retirement pension is indeed based on thinkers who are rather called neoliberals. Friedrich Hayek's Constitution of Liberty is a work that defines basically the pension system that is the second pillar in Estonia. And it is also true that one of its strongest advocates in the world is the Cato Institute, which is also a right-wing think tank. And those who oppose the collection are clearly left-wing forces. Perhaps there are some international organisations or thinkers. It is therefore a little funny that the idea of losing the second pillar has actually been raised by the right. He's moving the weight more into the neck of the national system. At the same time, I would like to say that it is also such an economically sensible approach. I certainly do not want to say that we must only have the second pillar. The second pillar simply has its place in this system, it helps to manage certain risks that we have and to balance them a little bit. If we are talking about forecasts for the next fifty or even a hundred years, let us be realistic, and we are not exactly forecasting this. But we know there are certain risks ahead. One is the demographic question, right, so we need the second pillar. Perhaps there are other national issues. We do not know whether our economic growth will remain as good as it has been so far. In recent years, we have not talked much about glass ceiling, although five years ago it was an absolutely important issue. Why can't it come up again? Countries with income levels similar to those in Estonia are also those that have remained at that level and will not go any further. In this case, investing abroad would be beneficial. On the other hand, the first pillar certainly also has pros, the risks that the first pillar mitigates. So in a way, it makes sense to put eggs in different baskets. There are certain problems that we take into account with the first pillar, and certain problems that we take into account with the second pillar. So rather, there is an important balance between them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U73	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As a scientist, of course, you don't practice conjecture, but I'm still gonna ask you one of those things. Please comment on these warnings, which say that making funded pension the second pillar optional could increase inflation and raise property prices. Theoretically, the same situation may arise as in the first decade of the 21st century during the financial crisis. In fact, I wonder if there is a debate that is currently taking place, and it still seems to be very theoretical, disregarding some x-factors, which could have a mandatory impact on the future of those who are still pure young people in the current pension pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U75	Here again are two separate questions. One question is what happens when money is taken out very quickly. This would mean strong demand pressure on the economy and would mostly result in high inflation or an acceleration of inflation. Real estate prices can really get there, we have read about research into what people are going to do with this money. Some plan to invest it in real estate. The amount that has accumulated for humans may be small, but many will probably use it to make a loan-related contribution. And that already means that this small amount will be amplified by a significantly larger loan. These risks are certainly present. If this money is thrown into the economy, yes, it can create some imbalances. At first, it creates demand pressure, but later, when it falls away, we probably find it unpleasant to lose demand. The second question was whether this would create any problems for people who would remain in the second pillar to raise money. This is probably a question relating to the above-mentioned long-term investments. In the event of a rapid exit from the pillar, some funds will be forced to reduce their long-term investments. They'll probably have to be sold cheaper than they've been hoping to get for them. Quick selling is mostly at a lower price than normal sales. And that means that the decisions of the people leaving will also affect those who remain in the funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U76	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U77	Honourable waitress! I would like to refer to the title of today's meeting on my question, 'Who pays for the trouble of my grandmother? '. We have heard a lot of the word 'demography' from you here too. You have spoken of a poor demographic situation and that, because of this poor demographic situation, we need a second pillar. We are also talking about immigration, about the introduction of labour in this key. But the content of the second pillar and of funded pensions is actually individualistic. And this individualism is our biggest enemy of demography. Can we not consider, as one alternative, that the state pays the so-called "grandfathers" a decent pension on children? In social terms, it would also be such a sort of perpetuation of mobiles, or would it guarantee our ladies a decent living and a pension supplement in the future? At the same time, it would give us more taxpayers and improve the demographic situation. Could it be a better alternative than all these columns combined? We actually know that both global and local pension systems tend to be in trouble...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U78	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U79	Yeah! I already asked you a question. Just to add, we see that global and local pension systems tend to be unstable in time, money of real value...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U80	It's like a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U81	...not to mention the fluctuations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U82	I guess I can answer that? There's still been a question up here for a long time about how to pay these pussies that money. Although we know that the first pillar in the future will work worse, I imagine that this'mammary pension' would be paid at the expense of that very first pillar. It probably doesn't make it any better, so let's just rename the first pillar. Now the question is whether there would be more children in this perspective. If a large number of people are not very sure about the state's pension promises, I do not think that they would agree to have more children because they will be allowed more pensions in the future. And the specific question is whether the children who would then be born would remain Estonian taxpayers. Boundaries are open. We can imagine scenarios that many more people are coming to Estonia and no one wants to leave here, but we have seen different periods. That's the question of how to find some sort of balance between these risks. Therefore, the second pillar is good to mitigate certain risks which are not mitigated by the first pillar. And, as the speakers have said above, in fact, the second pillar is still very small compared to the first pillar. It's for certain risks, but it's certainly not as important as the whole pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U83	Thanks to the waitress! Unfortunately, we ran out of time to answer questions. Next, I would like to ask for the floor of Riina Sikkut, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group. Presentation up to 15 minutes and questions-answers as well as up to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U84	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen and other listeners! Really, thank Tarmo, Lauri and Kaspar for their very interesting presentations! We heard from Tarmo what these great goals are, what this agreement is, how we provide retirement for older people. Lauri put these policy options in an international context and Kaspar also opened up the issue on the macro-economic side: how saving and investing in the economy as a whole would look. But I'm talking about a man. Because we don't make laws for ideal people, we create them for real-life real-life real-life people. In economic theory there is homo economicus: he is a person who maximizes his own usefulness, rational decision-making, he is able to calculate compound interest, perceives changes in value over time, perceives it linearly, he is profoundly reasonable. And indeed, with such people in the world, economic models and pension schemes, such real-life simplifications are very good to construct. Everything makes sense, behaviors are predictable and impact is clearly estimable. You change that way, homo economicus behaves like one. But there are very few homo economicus among us. I don't know if, for example, Kaspar, as an economist, professes to be a fully rational person. I've learned the economy, but no, I'm not rational. And since economic models are not well able to take into account the behaviour of these real people in real life, we have begun to develop behavioral economics, for example. As Tarmo pointed out in his presentation, in 2017, Nobel Prize was awarded by economist Richard Thaler, who described how people actually make decisions, those real people who are not entirely rational, who are wrong and whose decisions are influenced by the preferences of others, people who value more than tomorrow. They do not calculate the risk rationally; they tend to avoid taking risks at all; they do not take equal account of the effort they make for themselves and others; they assess the risk of things that are unlikely to happen and the risk of things that are likely to happen, they do not estimate the absolute values but the value of something. What does that mean in real life? That's the type of questions that have already sounded in the hall. For example, we fear the loss of EUR 100 more than we rejoice at the EUR 100 that has been won. We want more compensation for our health damage than we are willing to pay others. We may not buy 100 euros, but if the price tag says that the price is 200 euros, but the discount is 50%, it just seems attractive. And we prefer to get 100 euros today instead of 1,000 euros in ten years' time. Homo economicus would never decide that, because for him this EUR 1000 will be more valuable in the future, he will do this calculation, but we want our EUR 100 today and tomorrow. And that's how we decide this is how we actually decide, making our consumption decisions and saving decisions. Now, when designing the pension system, it is important to bear in mind that we are doing this for the real people. These are the people who, as Kaspar said, value their lives shorter than they actually do. We prefer today's spending to the benefits in 30 to 40 years. We're gonna start acting better and better from tomorrow, but it's gonna be tomorrow, and we often trust the gut or the advice we know. A person can act that way, and we will act that way. But the country should still take into account a longer period than tomorrow, the country cannot value tomorrow's EUR 100 higher than the certainty of the future. The country cannot be run on the assumption that, in 40 years' time, we will not have a capital market or pension beneficiaries or that, the second and the third. It would also make no sense for us to make defence costs, to contribute to education, research, innovation, if we thought that the benefits would have to come in the next or the next financial year. Just because we decide what behavioural economics suggests doesn't mean that people are stupid, that people are irresponsible, that people are somehow bad. People are people. And we, by designing the pension system, by making laws, must take this into account, whether we have two or eight pension pillars or a pillar-free life. It's not about pillars, it's about how we make decisions, who we create these systems for. And when we think about these real people, four aspects must be taken into account when planning changes in the pension system, including now that we are discussing the changes to the second pension pillar this autumn. The first is what has already been said in the presentations: people want more in the future. There is nothing to argue about, for example, whether a substitution rate of 40% or 30% would be acceptable. No, you wouldn't! We don't need to discuss this. People want more. We are already much more demanding than we were five years ago or 15 years ago. Teachers, for example, perceive how parents are more demanding about the treatment of their children, about the knowledge they acquire. Doctors and nurses see every day that seeing a white coat is not enough for a person. People want help quickly, they want research and analysis, they want good quality of life even in chronic illness. Employers see that, in the context of our historically high employment rate, working environments, reconciliation of work and family life, flexible working hours are becoming increasingly important for people. And we all want to be smarter, healthier, work in a better environment. And it's not possible that when we retire, we raise our hands and say it's okay, now we're settling for decades of life on the edge of our lives. That's not gonna happen! We don't even need to theorize about it. The pension system must take into account that dignified and active ageing is not just a novel expression in strategy papers, but is really a human expectation. In retirement, it should be possible to engage in hobbies, to go to theatre, to ensure independent coping for as long as possible. And in order to meet these people's expectations, our pension system must be made more generous. There is already pressure for an extraordinary pension rise, but we can see how difficult it is to get a 7-euro pension rise. But the changes we are planning will take us in the opposite direction, reduce pension savings and fund savings for the future pension. Volunteering can be discussed, but the fact that, for example, I am allowed to take out what has been collected in the last 16 to 17 years, with my first pillar pension being reduced in the future, is such a foolishness that no country has come up with so far because it is understood that we are real people, we have real expectations. Second, people's theoretical knowledge may not be realized in their behavior just by caring for their health or by caring for their own money. We all know what a healthy way of life is, how we should feed, how much we should move, but this knowledge is often not enough to actually change our behaviour. Financial literacy studies actually show a pretty good picture of Estonia. People know that inflation reduces the value of money, but they keep their savings in a normal savings account because they're afraid of risks. A survey of the financial behaviour and consumption habits of Estonian households showed that deposits constitute the main part of the financial assets of Estonian people. This figure is significantly higher than in the euro area as a whole. 73% of people do not want to take financial risks at all when investing; they want certainty. As Sven Sester asked, do we want to take no risk at all and achieve a very good rate of return and not pay for it when someone else makes decisions for us? I have made a joke that, from 1 January 2021, the second pillar could be paid out to people who have moved 10,000 paces a day from 1 January 2020 and have eaten five handfuls of fruit and vegetables every day. If we can be so disciplined and make the right choices in life for our health, perhaps we will also be responsible for making decisions about the use of our money. Tarmo pointed out that only about 5% of people invest in shares and bonds and, in the case of risk-seeking people who do not want to make active investment decisions when using savings, the state can be the provider of a reliable pension collection solution. So this short-sighted policy of reversing past long-term trends actually undermines trust in the state as a whole. It should be the country that, knowing people's risk aversion, creates trust, so that they are prepared to put money in a place where it does not lose value because of inflation, instead of keeping it in a bank account. And once again: the planned changes in the second pillar, which allow people to invest themselves and manage their savings, do not actually match people's real behavioural preferences, and the rate of return on their own savings is likely to be below that of the pension funds so far if this savings remain or will occur in the future. Thirdly, we have great income inequality and even greater wealth inequality. When we make changes in taxes, pensions and other systems, we should actually keep in mind the distribution of income curve. Of the nearly one million people who received incomes in the last year, 2018, be it salaries, employment contracts, dividends or pensions, 45% of the average annual monthly income was below EUR 500. Almost 80% of people earned an average wage of less than EUR 1300. Our incomes are very unequally distributed and this inequality is amplified by the size of people's assets. 10% of households have a liquid asset below EUR 10, yes, less than EUR 10! The total net assets of the housing, vehicles, financial assets are worth less than EUR 400, while the second pillar also has the poorest 10% of contributors accumulated an average of EUR 3000. If 50% of households have liquid assets below this year's minimum wage, then in the second pillar they have EUR 3000.4700. So the second pension pillar is the most important financial asset for 74% of people, because voluntary savings and the accumulation of assets do not happen for a very large number of households. This is not happening by itself, however, even for a small monthly amount, the compulsory saving of a person with a minimum wage, for example, is 2% of the salary he pays, EUR 10 and 80 cents per month, if it takes place over a long period of time, it is possible to raise savings that would never arise in itself. Fourthly, children are not a pension pillar. Children are happiness and joy that ensures social interaction at retirement age and maybe they are voluntary care providers as well as financial support providers. But the economic livelihood of an elderly person, his monthly income, must not depend on the existence of children or the financial situation of potential children. After all, we do not need to look far for an example of what will happen in this case. We have been talking for years about the burden of caring and paying for care services beyond the control of our carers. Many of us have personal experience in this regard. When an elderly person is no longer able to cope on his own, in certain activities he needs help or care every day, it is immediately said that children and grandchildren have a maintenance obligation. Although the current law also acknowledges that children and grandchildren can actually bear this burden only if it does not harm their daily livelihood. If we now imagine that, in addition to long-term care, children will have to pay their parents monthly allowance so that they can still buy bread and coffee and crossword puzzles on a regular basis. How would that change our society? On Tuesday, a conference was held on the possibility of 'Affordable Ageing'. Where does the traveler's path end? ', where experts from the Netherlands and Finland shared their experience with a system where such children and grandchildren are not obliged to pay for long-term care for older people or provide such care themselves. How interesting it was to hear how pleasant it was to hear what a change in society has been in people's sense of social security, family communication and public debate, precisely because long-term care is not largely provided and financed by children and grandchildren. And finally. In the context of a decline in the share of the working age population, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to cope with current taxes at retirement age. And, of course, it's reasonable that we find other solutions, that it's about saving people for retirement or something else. The second pillar can be improved, but we cannot irresponsiblely put the income of future pensioners at such a disadvantage for tomorrow's short-term benefit. And under no circumstances should the changes in the pension system overlook the fact that people want more in the future, but their theoretical knowledge is not reflected in their behaviour, and that we have very high income and wealth inequalities. Providing children with greater personal responsibility for the financial survival of their elderly parents is very unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U85	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. First please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U86	Thank you for a very interesting and emotional presentation. Maybe that's the question. The Government Coalition explains the need to change the second pillar with freedom of choice for people and lower-than-expected returns on funds. Tarmo Jüristo in his presentation compared the voluntaryisation of the second pillar and the payment of money to those who want to be paid out, which the government plans to do in order to increase productivity, to the guillotine used to reverse the consequences of a poor haircut. Do you think the government plan will help our pension assets to grow better, and will it be important to have freedom of choice when collecting money for retirement?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U87	Thank you. I'll start with freedom of choice. I find it entirely wrong and also very irrelevant to talk about freedom of choice in the case of fundraising for retirement. This is not a central goal at all. It is not, in fact, an important criterion on which to assess our current pillar. The possibility of a later choice is important to a person; it is emotionally important. I think it is best to understand this when I bring a parallel from other areas. Take education, for example. I know how every morning you have to motivate your children to go to kindergarten. There too, perhaps, we attach exactly the same importance to individual freedom of choice. Children say they don't want to go to school early, some don't want to take exams, some don't want to study physics or physical education, but we have compulsory schooling. Not to limit children's freedom of choice, but to allow them to make choices in adulthood. The same is true of compulsory funded pensions. By now contributing 2% of its income to the second pillar , it is somewhat different, who is limited by the 10 who have a current consumption of 80 euros, it has to be known that the reason for this restriction, this restriction on freedom of choice, is that as an elderly person, we have the opportunity to make choices at all during retirement age. If we do not have our own income, we will not be able to choose between nothing. The second issue is productivity. I do not see any way in which planned changes could influence the performance of the second pillar in a positive direction. One very important factor when it comes to where to invest and what kind of return will come from is the size of the funds. If we now reduce the volume of funds by a third or a half, we cannot expect that something will magically change and with this smaller amount of resources it will be possible to make better investment decisions than before and use this money to make a wider choice of investment decisions. It's hard for me to imagine. And no change aimed at increasing productivity has so far been discussed by the public. Neither the withdrawal of funds, the voluntaryisation of the second pillar nor the flexibility of disbursements will affect the performance of the second pillar. If that is a real concern, then this return must be addressed. This has also been done, the fees have been reduced, the investment restrictions have been removed, I fully agree with that. It sounds like money's on fire in this hall. What do you mean, money's on fire? The average return over the entire collection period is around 4%, a percentage point higher than inflation. On average, the wealth has grown in all pillars. I wouldn't have that savings, and my savings wouldn't have increased if I had to make my own savings decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U88	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U89	Thank you. Mrs. Sikkut! I'm terribly worried about your homo economicus. He's such a weirdo that there's no collective or division of labour in his mind. Would you actually allow him a little more lines to think that some things are smarter to do collectively, not everything to be done alone? You don't have to do everything yourself. For example, when everyone sits on a stock exchange, it kills society's productivity overall because not everyone can be securities specialists. Open up some of that stuff! After all, the debate has actually claimed that let the freedom to invest itself be great, that everyone gets richer and that those fucking administrators go there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U90	Thank you. Indeed, there are fundamental choices as to whether a person is responsible for coping with his or her retirement age, either he or she saves or accumulates his or her property, or we are somehow setting it up together. We know that our ability to save for retirement and to raise assets is very different. Collectively, many things are more sensible to do than on an individual basis. At the same time, although the collective solution is more effective, effective and gives me a better result, I do not know whether Jürgen has the same mind as I do, it is still a question of whether any investment decisions concerning voluntary pensions should be made. Basically, I don't mind whether we have homo economics or real people here. But we know what our people are like, we know their financial behaviour. At present, only 5% have decided to make their own investment decisions on how satisfied they are with their achieved returns, unfortunately, we do not have data, and this is a very small part of society. I find it hard to imagine that our people, 75% of whom say that they do not want to take any risk when investing, would somehow be ready to start updating their equity markets every week from 1 January 2021. What's the learning curve? What is the readiness of people? I agree with the question of how much time will still be spent alongside work, hobbies and family in the subtleties of the financial markets. I find it difficult to imagine that, from 1 January 2021, people's risk preferences and financial knowledge may be subject to some kind of change and wanted to participate in the financial markets. Currently, there is a third pillar, there are investment accounts, securities such as shares and bonds can be bought and sold. A person can walk around relatively freely with his financial assets, but for some reason only a small part of us have decided to do so. I think there are reasons. And we can't change them by law from any date or make those assumptions look like nothing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U91	Thank you. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U92	Thank you. On 30 September there was a very good and representative seminar at Eesti Pank, where both our own experts and international experts were present. There was talk about the pension system, about the choice of everything important. And today there have been three thorough, good presentations. Kaspar Oja mentioned that the payout of the pension system is the biggest problem of the current system. And, as we know, it is precisely this problem that we, together with the Social Democrats, are trying to solve here on Tuesday. But here's my question for you. Now that you have listened to all these reports and questions, what, I stress, are the losers of the mandatory second pillar of the future problem trying to solve? And as a result, how should pensions in the future be higher than under the current system?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U93	I really do not see any way in which, by reducing collection and allowing savings to be withdrawn, bigger pensions can be obtained in the future. I can't tell you what kind of real problem will be solved, apart from the fact that there's a whole series of promises in the coalition agreement that need money to cover. Nothing gets better for people, even for me as a future pensioner. But I really agree with that, if in 2003 it was possible to start raising money in this way, and there weren't those who received the payments. Now we have a number of people who have started to make retirement payments from the funds they have collected. There's been some experience, some understanding of what the plus-minus are. We see that more flexibility is needed in making disbursements, and it could also be possible for the accumulated assets to generate income even during the payout period. This would then be a fund pension that would allow life-long annuity payments to be combined with pension savings for a shorter period. It is also important to consider that people misjudge their lives. So there could be the insurance element that Kaspar was talking about: a person has the freedom to decide the extent to which he wants to receive payments during the first 10, 15, 20 years of pension, but there is also an insurance element that ensures that part of the property is still paid up to the end of a person's life. Even if a person thinks he or she will not survive ten years of retirement, but if he or she lives 35 years, the use of his or her savings can be managed in such a way that it covers his or her entire life span, even if his or her own calculation is incorrect.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U94	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U95	Thank you, madam waitress. Indeed, people may not be rational, but we are people in this Chamber, and there are people in the government. These people aren't more rational than the others. And neither can the state make any more rational decisions. So, what right do some non-rational people have to oblige other non-rational people to act in any way? Not to mention that there are no real choices in the universal sense. So here, the only justification is the will of the voters. There is no policy whose support would have found greater consensus in the Republic of Estonia than the policy of guaranteeing a higher state pension. No wish has been greater and more permanent. Don't you feel that the second pillar is such a secret oversight of this strong and consensual desire of the voters? Pension risk is shifted from a strong entity that can guarantee that risks are taken into account, i.e. from the state to the weakest person who really does not save because he has nothing to save, not because he is irrational. Isn't that a secret loss of state pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U96	Thank you. If you come to the beginning of the question, there is really no indication that there would be any more rational and rational people in the government than in the population as a whole. But in general, officials and members of the Riigikogu and the government can ask for expert advice when developing drafts, legislative changes. It is possible to explore the experiences of other countries, to gather this information and to reach a consensus that is reasonable. I think one solution is rational, you're different, but there may be 101 different concepts of rationality. We can make a compromise, and we can find some solution that, as an average, makes sense. But I think there are two things that go wrong here, just like volunteering and getting out of the second pillar. One question is whether the payment of a pension is purely a national role. What role should the private sector, pension funds, play? And the second is that, if we look at the long term, is it possible to reset population developments with tax schemes in any way, so that the future pension is not lower simply because we have half the working age. This really means a high tax burden. I am not opposed to tax increases, but in view of the proportion involved and given the impact it would have on the economy as a whole, which would mean increasing the burden on labour tax or the overall tax burden on the economy as a whole, I am not sure that the impact of such a large demographic change can be offset by simply playing with tax rates. So this gathering is in the interest of our own future better livelihood. Whether this money should be collected, invested, paid out by banks or insurance companies or by systems set up by the state, this is another discussion. I am more in favour of public solutions. I think that we should also seriously discuss taking on the risk of subsistence during the payout period. Maybe it would make sense to give up the country. The State does not have a claim for profit in this function and can pay out more to people in this sense than an insurance company that applies for profit. But as it has sounded many times here, the political risk is just so terribly high. If we put the savings collected by people and the first pillar pension funds and all of them on a single card, if everything depends only on decisions taken by a specific government for a specific financial year, it may not provide us with a stable and sustainable pension system in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U97	Thank you. In fact, we're about to run out of questions and answers, but let's give one more question a chance. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Since I know you often like to use figurative expressions in your speeches, let me do the exact same thing. It was known from history that the formal purpose of the Barbarossa plan was 'expansion of the cultural space', but in fact the purpose was to seize the natural resources. And with today's beautiful title, the crucial national question 'Who will reward your grandmother's trouble? In ', an analogy comes into play. In the course of today's debate, it has become clear that pension funds and their managers, with their high fees, still benefit most from the second pension pillar. The analysts didn't tell me how much the purchasing power of this money would decrease over a certain period, so I guess they just didn't want to sink your plan. Here's the question. I'm giving you a lifeline right now. Tell me, how much has the purchasing power of EUR 100 decreased in the years 2000/2019?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U99	Thank you. To be honest, I absolutely do not agree with the arguments put forward in the question. When we ask who pays for the trouble of a grandmother, we talk about the livelihood of older people. All the rapporteurs in their presentations spoke of fundamental choices, whether current taxes or savings. There is no one right solution here. For pension funds to have a certain system built up, this is the place of decision. In my opinion, public retirement may be a public retirement, I think it may also be a public pension payout, a completely different discussion. The question is whether we have to save our own pensions or whether it is possible to pay future pensions out of the current tax revenue. The consensus among analysts is quite high that there is no possibility of maintaining this 40% substitution rate in such a tax burden and in such population developments. It will not be possible to pay pensions in the future after 30 to 40 years if we want to have an education funded, the defence force funded. The question is, do we have to save ourselves? Guess we're gonna have to save ourselves. What is this concrete solution? Whether to make a profit, how to make a profit, just another discussion. This debate can be held freely, but it is not affected in any way by the draft planned by the government coalition. This does not change the rates of charges; it does not change the fact that private funds invest in our pension assets. It is not a criticism of the existing system or a praise of the proposed draft, because these issues are not addressed there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U100	Thank you. The time for questions and answers is over. Thank you very much to the waitress Riina Sikkut! Now let's move on with the negotiations. Representatives of committees and political groups, as well as other members of the Riigikogu, may speak. At the request of the Social Democratic Party Group, I propose that there be first speakers from the political groups and then later other members of the Riigikogu. The call from the remote is five plus three minutes, speaking in two minutes. First of all, I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, Indrek Saare.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U101	Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs Tarmo Jüristo, Lauri Leppik and Kaspar Oja very much for the very substantive discussion and analysis, as well as for the very substantive answers. Of course, I would also like to thank my party partner, Riina, who put this debate together nicely. Therefore, I am not going to repeat what has been discussed in detail today, I would simply like to recall the important choices that we face with regard to changing the pension system, making the second pension pillar voluntary. Firstly, it is very likely that we will go against the point of the Constitution. We're putting our responsibilities beyond our reach for future generations. They must take responsibility for something that we decide here today, and that means a much greater burden for them than it would make sense. This means considerably higher taxes for them and a longer working life, a higher retirement age and, most likely, a loss of Estonia's competitiveness. The reformulation of the pension system in this form creates considerable additional injustice, because, as Riina very well proved, all those people who are not in the upper income sectors, whose incomes are not sufficient to save regularly, especially those who are poorer, who receive low wages, as a rule, have no savings other than this second pension pillar. It is they who face the greatest risk of poverty when the second pillar is destroyed. And third, the pension system that we made years ago has been long negotiated, designed, thoroughly thought through. Its overnight reversal is simply because it was the electoral promise of a coalition party, without any impact analysis, devastates society's trust in the state. The state should be stable and overall agreements should be credible in the long term. I very much ask that we think before this bill, which the coalition's side promises to bring to the Riigikogu, comes into procedure here! We will think about what Tarmo Jüristo said during this procedure and by pressing the voting buttons. He said, among other things, that it was a matter of responsibility to think about the consequences of this decision. And here it is very appropriate to use a sentence, which also politicians occasionally abuse, but in the current context, it is very appropriate: think about children and grandchildren! Think about how you will explain to them in 20 to 30 years, why our pension system is unsustainable and why they have to deal with this problem from morning to evening. They have to worry about how we manage in retirement, and this comes at the expense of their future opportunities. In other words, do you really have an answer to the question that our children and grandchildren may ask in the future in view of redeploying the second pillar of the pension? That's the question: why did you do this century's bullshit? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U102	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Reform Party, please speak to Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The crash of the century is undoubtedly the elephant that is in this room: an ageing population and the destruction of this mitigation measure because of the obsession of one party. We have now listened to experts whose talk is always so and so, but they have still made a very unambiguous assessment of what this plan, which is being brought to this Riigikogu, will bring with it. First of all, it doesn't deal with the past. We really can't change the past, but we all need to know that. I can still hear from the sidelines that the rate of return has been low or that somebody left 10 or 15 copies of some kind of insurance. The rate of return on the current system has been around 3.5% per year. It's higher than inflation, there's no money burning, the system's made money. Why hasn't produced enough, it's long been made clear to analysts. The main cause has been the fall of the crisis and very severe risk limits. They are consciously made to be very strict. Now we are more aware than we have so far, and we have already relaxed the restrictions. Of course, administrative charges have also been a question here, but they have fallen: they have fallen below 1%, at the beginning they were 3%. It makes no sense to go on the subject that the rate of return is low when, in fact, it is the only tool that people have had and that has produced, not burned money. People do not have considerable savings and those that are distributed very, very unevenly. But that's the only thing most people who have at a certain age have. Go on. The small size of the funds, of course, was the problem, but we have removed these restrictions. We have lost the administrative fees and we have also regulated them down. What are the social results? The experts confirmed that we will know more about the things that await us in the future: poor pensioners. Poor, and not only relatively poor, but also deep-poor pensioners, because nothing compensates for the ageing of the population. People are not going to save better, invest better than taking away the second pillar of their pension. On the contrary, they actually need a third. The economic result? Only negative. Short-term consumption boom, certain price increases and worse off than before. It's just like peeing in your pants. If your goal is to pee in your pants, pee in your pants! But don't commit such a crime beyond generations. As far as investments are concerned, Kaspar Oja said this best, that saving is good for the economy. This will ensure that the money is available when more is needed. And it's more needed in old age. Saving is good for investment and investing in Estonia has been a part of it. Investment opportunities have gradually been found in Estonia as well, but the big idea is not to invest in Estonia, but to get a share of the capital markets, because the return on the capital markets is, as has been shown, greater than the growth of the economy as a whole. We will get something that we ourselves cannot produce, partly from the capital markets of the global economy. Now for the reward. Does this method that you use increase the rate of return on all this whining? No, it's reducing. As soon as the fund door becomes open, longer-term, less liquid and more productive investments will be reduced. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U104	An extra three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U105	So you will also reduce your pension for those who have remained in the second pillar, and that is actually contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. Certainly, the idea of the Constitution is also contradicted by the fact that we are reducing the rate of revenue substitution by some completely voluntarist step. A little bit about justice. We're talking about some guys who were supposed to make a lot of money, all in the interest of the bankers. Well, frankly, bankers are relatively indifferent to this. They make this money in other ways in any case and better, in the pension fund they can't charge very much. All in all, the money still revolves on, they find these placement options. They do not really have much interest in these funds, and there are already signals that they are giving up on this business. Unfortunately or luckily, they are not going to talk about this officially, but I can tell you that banks are not very interested, they are also able to make money in a different way. Does this change increase freedom? No, it reduces freedom, but after a while. Poor people aren't free. If he has income, as has been said repeatedly, minimal, then talk about the fact that he needs freedom to decide on the money needed to survive, to try his hand somewhere on the stock exchange, that's bullshit. This freedom is already within the limits of people's income, a few percent or 6% will not change anything. But they don't use that freedom. However, they lose their chance to cope with old age. The idea of this project is an unworthy retirement, the cost of this freedom is the loss of dignity, poverty for many. Whether there are hundreds of thousands or tens of thousands of these people depends on how we define dignity and poverty. But in any case, it's a crime of the century, a crime committed against generations. It is also criminal to have a culture of governance, which says that you can discuss here, we have fallen to a decision. And if you start asking me what they know about what they're doing, they're stupid as table feet. Their speeches have been written, their questions have been written, they do not take into account absolutely what is being discussed, they are not present at seminars, they do not listen to reports, and their speeches come exactly as they have been written before today's debate. I can see that already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U106	Next, please speak on behalf of the Centre Party Group in Tõnis Möldri. I'm sorry! Before that, we are probably running out of time and the Social Democratic Party has proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. I shall put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U107	All right, noblemen! I shall put to the vote the request of the Group of the Social Democratic Party that this sitting be extended until 2 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. The vote is closed. 24 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of extending it, against 7. The hearing will therefore be adjourned until two o'clock. The next speaker is Mr Mölder, who will speak on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for this debate, the debate, the big room. I have to admit, the presentations were interesting to listen to. In Estonia, the pension pillar system has lasted 17 years without major changes. All this time, our people, who were born after 1983, including me, have been tied up in the foot. People lack the freedom to decide. The current government has agreed that there will be a reform of the Estonian pension system and that the system will be made more flexible and selective. People will have more choices to secure a dignified old age. I do not understand those people who have accused the authors of the idea of this reform of communism, cynicism, torture of Estonian elderly people, stupidity, stupidity, destruction, etc. I just feel sorry for these people, they have not clarified the basic principles of the functioning of the country. The role of the state is to trust its people and give them freedom of choice. Once again, we will not break down, we will not tear down, we will build bridges and we will offer people opportunities to be free in their choices, we will trust the people of Estonia. Thanks to the coerciveness of money collectors in the second pension pillar, banks have enjoyed the charms of uncompetitive business for years. As there was virtually no market regulation, pension fund management costs remained high and returns remained awkwardly low. The attitude of banks is also reflected in the attack on the initiators of the reform because the state is charging taxes on the money taken out of the pillar. Yes, the state will charge taxes on people's income, but with the aim of investing it in our people through the social and health care system. The state will not take the money for itself, just as the current funds do with management fees. Bank representatives fail to mention that in 17 years only tens, if not hundreds of millions of euros, have been paid for management fees. So far, the principles of the second pillar come from a time when people were led from a high and far away. Today, it is the task of the state to support citizens' own initiative and to trust their choices, not to try to force the people to obey. A pension pillar without freedom of choice is no longer suitable for a country that values human rights and free decision-making. I stress that the second pillar exists and remains. Alternatives, options, are simply emerging. The reform of the second pillar leaves people free to choose whether to continue collecting. It should also be stressed that when you go to the first job, a person automatically joins the second pillar system. He's just gonna get a chance to get out of there. Those who oppose the so-called'release' of the second pension pillar warn that people are immediately rushing to withdraw their euros from the funds and spend them on pointless emotional shopping. It's supposed to trigger an unprecedented hyperinflation, according to some disaster forecasters. It was recalled that a study was carried out on how many people would immediately use all their assets after the reform of the second pillar, and only 17% of respondents would do so. Only 17% of people want to make use of the money they have collected, and it is not certain that they would make less use of it than today's fund managers. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U109	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U110	The second pillar is being shown as a driver of the domestic economy. It's a mistaken delusion. About 10% of pension fund assets have been invested in Estonia, while an amount of 2% of the country's GDP is transferred abroad each year, while the return on the second pillar is more than twice as low on the country's economic growth. So you don't have to sneak around trying to boost your domestic economy. The good colleague who's been sneaking around with it is no longer in the sleigh. Our savings will boost the economies of other countries. That's a fact. The second pillar has so far been ineffective and clearly focused on service providers. This voluntaryisation and broadening of the possibility of allocating funds will take a good step towards improving the situation. In the beginning, when attempts were made to ignore the requests for the renewal of the second pillar in the financial community, it was time to realise that the old way of ignoring customers could no longer be managed, and it was decided to make some cosmetic changes. The debate on the second pillar reform has already led to changes in the system, banks have started to cut management fees more vigorously and have promised significantly better returns on investment than they have done so far. With the reform of the second pillar, we are putting pressure on banks and fund managers to offer better conditions, thereby winning people and, above all, the state. The Centre Party has always stood for the elderly and their well-being, which is why all the extraordinary pension increases in recent years have only taken place under the leadership of central party social ministers. Without them, pensions would now be considerably lower. I dare say that the future pension reform will also be a step towards improving the well-being of our people and significantly better and more dignified old age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U111	Thank you. Next, the representative of the EKRE will be able to speak on behalf of the Group. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U112	Honourable speaker and the few other people left here! It was a very exciting day, and the theme was right. In my speech, I will try to summarise briefly the key points of the EKRE pension strategy. The first whale in this matter is, in our opinion, family support, and the family is very important. I'll talk about it in more detail, at first I'll just mention the main points. Secondly, a state pension based on economic growth, or the first pillar, is also important. And that, thirdly, we are not in favour of losing this important factor. On the contrary, it may stay, but it should be reorganized. Now to the point. Why am I talking about family? At the Faculty of Philosophy, we were told the kind of anecdote when social security came into existence. Social security arose when ethics arose. When did ethics come into being? Ethics arose when the elderly and the poor were no longer thrown into the abyss. Since then, for centuries, the family, family, and community have borne the main weight of caring for the elderly and the babes. And this is still the case in third countries, especially those with almost no pensions. There is a shame if your parent or other relative does not receive medical care on time or is left alone. Of course, the first pillar of the pension, or state pension, is also important to us, as has been mentioned here today. The first to introduce such a system was Otto von Bismarck. At the time, the pyramid was such that at the top there were a few 70-year-olds who were able to withstand the heavy workload. Today is a bit different: children and workers are up and then pensioners... I mean, on the contrary, the pensioners are there... I've lost it now. There are more pensioners than taxpayers. The first pillar must, in any case, remain and be strengthened, but it will not be from heaven or from the wall, but will be based on strong economic growth. And the measures proposed by the EKRE for economic recovery were also intended to help increase pensions. However, we have not been able to realise them particularly in the coalition, we hope that in the future it will go better, so the pension increase came relatively small, as the French say, vaut mieux quelque chose que rien, better than nothing. Pensions could also be increased by means of revenue from the budget, through a thorough budget review, an audit and a review of euro payments. But here is the question, what are the costs that could be excluded, what other costs could be excluded, whether it is for the protection of the artillery battery state, the salaries of the break-up rescuers and police officers, the major objects of national culture, the construction of infrastructure or the maintenance of homopropaganda and third-country nationals. What to take, what to leave? All political parties disagree here, but the EKRE wants, I repeat, to strongly support the first pillar of pensions. What's more, we're also... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U113	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U114	... we are also opposed to pension as such taxation at all and there is such double taxation. Who has worked in Finland for example and paid his or her pension, which is taken as income, which is actually his or her contribution to the development of society, is added up and then brutally 20 percent are deducted from it. And the last thing that's been burning passion here is voluntary or, let's say, a retirement pension. As Riina Sikkut has already said: yes, indeed, the pensioner also wants to live well, eat well, go on a trip to a full life. And a state pension is not enough for that. During life, a person has many opportunities: either to invest in real estate, art, to work hard, to do a good job, to work worthwhile, or to join some kind of fund of collection or to join a pillar of collection. But, as you can see, the second pillar has not started well enough, and consequently it needs to be re-examined. People don't have faith in it. And there is no faith because these funds have not increased significantly, no efficiency. The world is also very turbulence around us. Every day, something can happen. For example, we do not know what Turkey's current attack on Syria is causing. Inflation in the economy eats money, nor do we know what trade wars will bring. So it's all very uncertain, it's a very high risk. It's good to invest other people's money, of course, but put your own money in the game as if you didn't want to. The EKRE is therefore in favour of reviewing the second pillar, reorganizing. Maybe a new idea could be that why we have the second and third pillars, maybe we could have a retirement pension. But who would pay in: employees, employers or the state or all three at a time or, as in the case of Kela in Finland, employees and employers? And the last thing: why not consider combining health and pension funds? After all, health is the basis of every pensioner's life. Although, paraphrasing the French again, no one dies of disease, but everyone dies of medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U115	Thank you. Please, Priit Sibul, last of all as a representative of the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the initiators of this debate for being very exciting. And the waitresses for their fine rites! Pensions, including funded pensions, are undoubtedly one of the most important political debates in this autumn. Compulsory funded pension units are available for more than 700000 Estonians. In order to protect these people's rights, the Fatherland has initiated this funded pension reform. The content of the reform is summarised and briefly as follows: People must have the right to decide for themselves how to invest their assets and what to do with their assets. This right should be inherent in a market economy society. For our party, supporting a free market economy is one of the fundamentals of the weather. The purpose of the pension system is, of course, to provide people with incomes even in their old age when their ability to work is reduced and their income is reduced. In other words, the aim is to pay the highest possible pension. The introduction of compulsory funded pension 17 years ago has, however, led our society to a situation where both first and second pillar pensions have decreased. The system has two major inherent shortcomings. Firstly, people do not have the opportunity to manage their own pension investments. This has led to disappointing examples that the return on funded pension was much lower in the past than in any alternative of precious metals, real estate, equity investments at the same time. In essence, the return on funded pension is comparable to the rate of deposit; the person loses. Of course, the funds here have also had legal limitations under the law that they have not been able to invest very much in different funds, but over time it has changed. The second inherent deficiency is due to the first and is due to the fact that management companies do not have to compete on the market with other investment opportunities. Acting on a guaranteed market has led to a situation where the funded pension has become a universal laughing stock. In the absence of competition, service providers are not obliged to offer the best price-quality ratio, i.e. to offer equivalent or better returns than, for example, gold or rental real estate. Its negative impact on the investment climate is difficult to overestimate. The loser is human again. In addition to the above inherent shortcomings, there are other major problems, such as the inflexibility of disbursements, the suspension of the increase in pension investments after the transfer of units to the insurance company. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to note that the opposition recognises the existence of problems in the funded pension system. The draft for the reform of compulsory and voluntary funded pension, initiated by the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party Group in the course of the proceedings on Tuesday, involves a number of necessary changes. Under the draft, the rigid payout system for the second pillar would be made more flexible, the taxation of second and third pillar payouts would be restored in its original form and people's information on their pension rights and options would be improved. These are all points of pain in funded pension provision and there is a consensus that the situation needs to be changed. However, these changes would not solve the most painful problems. The changes proposed by the Reform Party and the Social Democrats draft would not give people the freedom to take control of their investment management. The opposition will not contribute to increasing competition in the investment market through its proposals. So I will say about this bill: too late and too lean. I repeat the basic truth of the market economy: in the absence of competition, the service provider is not obliged to offer the best price-quality ratio, i.e. the best rate of return. 56% of reform party voters are in favour of making the second pillar optional and 53% of supporters of social democrats. Perhaps it is reasonable for us to consider together how we can meet the expectations of our constituents. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U117	There's going to be an extra time. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U118	Perhaps it makes sense to end the day-to-day regime on a matter in which voters are aware of their preference and to take the next steps. Lauri Leppik, who spoke today, used the word 'disaster rhetoric'. This art was possessed by a number of people on the remote. Once again, as far as I know, no one is planning to lose the second pillar, the goal is a voluntary system. The Isamaa Party wishes to encourage investment, which requires the right of personal decision and free competition for funded pension in the investment market. These changes will ensure that the coalition's pension reform is implemented. Today's debate is the beginning. At this session, we can discuss the draft pension system on quite a number of other occasions. I very much hope that at the heart of this will be the understanding that man will be the ruler and chief leader of his life, both today and in the future, including in old age. You have to rely primarily on yourself. Subtle and heated debates for us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U119	Thank you. Representatives of political groups have spoken, members of the Riigikogu are now receiving the floor. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U120	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable Vice President! First of all, I want to correct one inaccuracies. The Centre Party has very often adorned itself with false feathers. I would remind you that when there was an extraordinary pension increase in 2007 or 2008 somewhere there, the minister was Maret Maripuu from the Reform Party. I was then chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, and I remember that Mr Aab, to whom it is now awarded, was then a member of the Committee. But now for the speech. Today, no one can tell us what a terrible threat the dismantling of the second pension pillar will bring to future and present generations. The economy, population and other variables are black thousand. The need to look ahead for long, decades and the fact that our society is small and open and dependent on the rest of the world increases uncertainty. The government, however, has not bothered to carry out any more in-depth analysis. After all, the coalition's trauma is pawned by the populist election promise of the Fatherland, which must be redeemed by the pendant-rapa. Those bona fide people who want to withdraw money from the second pension pillar as soon as possible, or take advantage of the opportunity to save themselves for the future, will be punished several times. As a result of income tax, they will immediately lose 20% of funded pension funds, and they will also lose their annual income tax credit of EUR 6000 and will also give to the State contributions to their future funded pension fund for at least the next 10 years. As a reminder, the gross wage of a working person to 2% has been added by the state at the expense of 4% of the person's social tax. Not to mention that the first pillar money will go there in the future as part of the employee's state social tax, though logically, because the sum collected will be paid out to today's pensioners, as is the case with the second pillar money, is not bequeathable to the spouse or children. If a country is impertinently stripping money from its citizens for old age because it needs resources to fulfil sound electoral promises, it can be called the freedom of a person to be milked. But it can also be called vandalism, because it concerns generations and entire society. By introducing a funded pension at the turn of the millennium, we were based on the fact that the state-funded pension, i.e. on-going, will soon dry up by about a third due to the lack of taxpayers. Despite, for example, a wage race or an increase in the retirement age, a person would not survive in any way. The population is ageing and today's knowledge shows that in a few decades, the ratio of workers to pensioners will fall from today's 2 to 1.3. But that ratio could be worse. Since demographic processes are slow, this trend would not be wrong with the science fictional hypothesis that all Estonian women will be happy to bear 4 to 5 children tomorrow. Children also need to be raised in the neck. Afraid that in the future, it will be the young families who will be the biggest scapegoats with the stupidities of today. They are the ones who need to raise children as well as carry an increasing burden to support the state. But somewhere, there's a tolerance limit for them. Already, about 4% of old-age pensioners receive income support. If the government maintains its pension plans, it is feared that the share of the elderly living in poverty will grow several times. The expectation that the future smaller generation will pay for the previous larger generation's pension has failed. This has been understood by almost all European countries, which have developed schemes where ongoing funding and compulsory, voluntary, employer and personal funded pension complement each other. In the Estonian pension system, the share of the collection is clearly small compared to the developed countries. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U121	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U122	Instead of breaking the second pillar, additional roads should be found to put more aside for retirement. An example is the draft occupational pension submitted to the Social Democrats Riigikogu. There are, of course, other options, even the massive introduction of migrant labour. But is this the kind of Estonia the current government union wants? The breakers of our pension system have perhaps talked the most about the current low productivity of pension funds. It has not been too high, but it is on average positive and the purchasing power of the funds has increased. However, it has not been said that in countries with a short collection time, where the system was created a few decades ago, the money upholstery is still too thin to thrive. What remains to be said is that the state put tough investment restrictions on pension funds at the top, which have been alleviated from this autumn. Of course, it has not been said that the biggest economic crisis in the last 80 years will be in the recent past, which has affected the sustainability of funded pensions in all OECD countries and undermined trust in these funds. In addition, in 2009-2011 our country suspended the second pillar contributions. This was a time when units with high growth potential could have been bought cheaply. In Hungary and Poland, which we have set an example, the system began to be demolished and fortified by populist governments themselves. In Finland and Sweden, where pension collection habits are more long-term, the labour force and demographic indicators and indices are well-defined. There are changes much more'soften' and at the same time more constructive. Our pension system has just begun to achieve a certain size and maturity that will allow us to gain momentum. As important as yield is consistent collection and wage growth, i.e. increase in contributions. But man is once such an animal that he thinks of today rather than coming. As Riina Sikkut said: Whoever takes money out of the second pillar and pays back their fast-track loans has even done so wisely. Unfortunately, we are not all investment geniuses; otherwise, the whole of Estonia would be full of millionaires. So what do we do? A short answer: the funded pension system must be made so flexible and attractive that as few as possible would be tempted to withdraw the collected money from the pension system. This is why the Social Democrats and the Reform Party have drafted a draft, where they have made concrete proposals on how to improve the system. Finally, rather than spitting on the old well by merely offering empty words, more opportunities should be found to save retirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U123	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U124	Ladies and gentlemen, The current pension system limps on three legs and puts the risks on the weakest. It's high time we changed that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U125	I'm sorry! I'll interrupt for a second. I thought you said you wanted more time right away. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U126	Thank you. What is this second pillar? The second pillar is the compulsory linking of pensions to financial markets. The state wipes out its hands on the responsibility of the elderly, reduces its share in guaranteeing pensions and makes our old age more uncertain, especially those of the current pensioners whose cupboard this money goes to the financial markets. This means that the state will actually say: if you do not become a financial capitalist, you will not receive a decent pension. The creation of the second pillar was a crime of the century. We'll make it up to you today. Such a market pension, a wet dream of neoliberals, gives the right-wing chance to tell people that you are guilty of earning little. It sounded yesterday that not all citizens should be equal. Live in poverty! I would remind good colleagues from the Reform Party that the Reform Party became a mass party when it was realised that pensions should be supported. Why have there been social democrats who really understand the importance of a country that actually protects the less secure? I don't know why you're doing this. But the voter's assessment, of course, can be seen. Few earners do not save voluntarily or fail to quite save because they are irresponsible or irrational. You know, there's nothing left for them! Let's look at the current situation. No agreement can be reached on the minimum wage. And then the state comes to those workers with a minimum wage to morale: but now put it aside! Save it, because we are not going to pay your pension, pay your own pension! You know, these people still need that money right now. They need food now, children need to be sent to school, clothes need to be bought. In my opinion, it is immoral to demand that they give away a piece of money simply in order for the fund manager to have a corporate pension. Why do you even need a country that doesn't guarantee pensions? What justifies a country that believes that we do not guarantee the well-being of old people? What do you need it for anyway? Why do we need a country like this? A fair state does not put risks on the weakest to allow a good pension for financialists. You see, private companies, private pension funds care about profits and they have to care about profits, but not about people's decent lives. People's lives can only be cared for by a country that receives a mandate from the voters. There has been talk of political risk, but what does political risk mean? Political risk means the idea that maybe someday someone who wants to lose their pensions will come to power. You know, this desire for the state to guarantee a pension so that the state guarantees a decent life for at least the old people has been one of the strongest wishes of the Estonian people and is shared by the voters of all political parties. I don't see that wish disappearing in the future. Therefore, perhaps those who want to lose pensions secretly talk about the political risk in such a way that voters do not understand it. Be careful! In short, the country is the only one who can promise that a decent old age will continue to exist. If you want to get a pension, you have to choose parties who say that pensions will remain. And, of course, the state is the only one who can actually guarantee it, who can bear these risks. There was a lot of questions about what to do. Maybe you have to make a lot of people, or you have to put social tax on the ceiling somewhere. There's no way you can do that. Indeed, public finances need to be repaired. And the first thing to do is to change the Estonian tax system so that we no longer depend on indirect taxes but on direct taxes. As long as we do not have corporate tax, there is no debate that maybe our country does not have enough money to start at all. Until companies make profits because the state has built something up, that we have roads, that we have education, that we have people, that they have to pay for it. And that allows us to untie our pension from the demographic chain. In the future, we may have fewer people, but they can produce more value. If we ask the companies, I will give the example of Western Europe, what their productivity was in the '60s and what it is today, everyone will say that, of course, productivity is greater today. It is not a question of how many people we have. We could also have one person who pushes the button, theoretically, so magically produced all in a very far-off future. Does that mean no one gets a pension? No, it doesn't! We still give people goods, services, new value. It's not about the number of people. As far as I am concerned, we can eliminate social tax at all if we can come to such an agreement and if we find a reasonable different tax system. And of course: right now, our hands are tied to the balance of the budget. There are two things that actually do not allow us to use the resources available in our country. Firstly, the budgetary balance requirement, which will prevent us from borrowing even if there are interest rates on loans at the lowest level in all of history in Europe. We cannot use this money for investment and therefore have free money for other things. Secondly, the very targeted taxes and the legislative steps that the government must take. You know, elections have consequences. There are consequences to the election! If we want to govern, as the Estonian people expect from us, and the state pension he expects, then we must give governments, both now and in the future, no one knows who will be in government next time, I hope that we will have the opportunity to put our programme into practice. Corporate tax, the possibility of borrowing, the loss of targeted taxes, all of this gives us the opportunity to actually keep our country and take care of old people with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U127	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the previous speaker, Heljo Pikhof, who spoke about the fact that the Centre Party loves to decorate itself with foreign feathers. He meant an extraordinary pension increase. Yes, indeed, the last extraordinary pension increase was years ago, but it was still in the years 2005 to 2007 and then it was not a government run by the Centre Party. This was the first government of Andrus Ansip, where, yes, indeed, the Ministry of Social Affairs' portfolio was in the hands of the Centre Party, but the portfolio of the Minister of Finance was in the hands of the EKRE predecessor People's Union. And the extraordinary pension increase at that time was 40% in two years, and now EUR 7 is ridiculous alongside it. But that's it. As far as the respondents to this coalition's pension plan are concerned, I have heard at various seminars and also here today that these respondents are just like representatives of the interests of banks and funds. You see, I am not the representative of the banks or the funds speaking here today, I am the representative of the investor. I joined the second pillar in 2002 as soon as it arose and I am still in the second pillar. Here's a previous speaker saying the system is limping on three legs. If I look at my pension fund's return, it's at an average level compared to other funds. I wouldn't say it's limping on three legs. Yeah, maybe I myself would have achieved a better return. In parallel with pension fund investments, I have also invested on my own in stocks, bonds, etc. It's very complicated. Maybe I could have achieved a better rate of return, but what if? It is reasonable to diversify the assets between different investment directions. They say it's low productivity. But productivity has started to improve, and this is because the previous composition of the Riigikogu, where I had the pleasure of working, adopted several legislative amendments that help improve productivity. And these effects are only now beginning to appear. Demolitioners of the second pillar of pension say that there are few leaving the pillar. One speaker said that there were 17% of them. However, the Minister of Finance, running through the seminar at Eesti Pank, said that a quarter or even a third would leave. It is still a very large number and it is clear that it will have an impact on the whole system. They say the money's burned. It's not burned! In any case, the pension fund's productivity has exceeded inflation throughout this period. And now it is said that productivity is below growth. But here, what matters is which periods are compared, which periods are under observation. Cutting the administrative fees and improving the rate of return is then the only hope associated with this large pension plan. But what's the second weight? We heard what's on the other side. We already have a replacement rate, compared with other countries, among the poorest. We have one of the biggest risks of pensioner poverty compared to other countries, and if this thing goes through, the net replacement rate, which is now 40%, will fall to 30% in 10 to 20 years' time. So it's on the other side of the line. I'm saying don't tell me the other half of the story. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U129	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U130	Don't tell me the other half of the story! If, at present, the analyses show that the net replacement rate is decreasing, how is it compensated? With tax increases? Social tax is already high, I do not know which tax is being raised. Go on, raise your retirement age. Will public debt make up for what is missing by paying pensions in the future? Immigration be advised by the other half of the story! The Fatherland came up with a story that gold and rental property are where you can invest. Hey, look at the rental market, how many natural persons rent out real estate! That's a fraction of the retirement fund. And who are they gonna rent to? You gonna rent apartments to each other? This isn't serious. Yeah, we're talking about freedom. But people now have the opportunity to voluntarily invest in real estate, stocks, bonds. How many private investment account holders do we now have? This is a negligible figure compared to the 700000 pension collector. And even if the number of equity, bond or real estate investors on its own doubles or triples, which is unlikely, this figure will be almost non-existent compared to the number of pension collectors. So, indeed, when we talk about the need to change the situation today, please, first of all, let us talk about the proposals that we, along with the socialists, have made in the form of a bill. These discussions, I hope, will be there, but these measures will certainly help to improve the situation when we are talking about raising productivity or reducing administrative charges. But what is on the agenda right now is what we are discussing, in fact, the Minister of Finance has already said that the decision has been passed, which we are still discussing, if this plan is to go through, it is nothing more than creating today's prosperity at the expense of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U131	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U132	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Actually, I was gonna ask you, but unfortunately, time ran out before I could have asked the waitresses a thing or two. That is why I would like to start my presentation on the thoughts I had in mind when I asked the questions. In the next ten to twenty years, the person who joined the second pillar today will receive less pension than the person who has not joined the second pension pillar. That is, if his salary is not too high, it is between the average salary and the minimum wage. I'm actually asking who's gonna take these people, and these people aren't really gonna be a little bit short, these ladies and guys are gonna have a lot of trouble carrying on in the next ten to twenty years? Why don't we talk about it? Priit Sibul mentioned some options that could be invested in. I'm the woodsman. I love rural life, I love forestry, I have a very broad circle of people involved in forestry, forest owners, small forest owners, who would be happy to actually invest in their own property and grow the forest and lay the foundations for real independence, if that were possible, and if it were profitable for them as well. These are topics that we should consider deeply. How can we still give young people entering the agricultural sector the opportunity to support this economic activity, which creates substantial wealth? A good colleague of the Reform Party said something about peeing in his pants. I think we've been peeing in our pants for 17 years, and isn't it time to stop peeing in our pants? If a person who has retired freshly and receives EUR 10 retiring 30, I'm talking about actual numbers of six retiring from the second pillar, what is the value of this pension supplement, its 10 or 30 euros in 20 or 30 years' time? It's a fixed amount. Perhaps in the suburbs of Tallinn there will be a cup of coffee for 10 euros in 20 years' time, but it will certainly not save you from poverty. And neither is the solution if we pull on leather pants or rubber pants. In fact, I believe the people of Estonia and their intelligent decisions. Compared to our people's behavior, thoughts, desire to use guillotine, it's inappropriate, to put it mildly. Studies have also shown that the people of Estonia are rational, intelligent, not rushing to break their money. And indeed, there is one fact that I still want to emphasise, although many of the speakers have already done so. But it deserves to be emphasized. Changing the second pillar of pension towards self-regulation is certainly a step in the right direction, as it forces banks to think about how to make a better offer to people, also forcing them to be effective, to look for higher returns and lower fees. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we are moving in the right direction. Of course, these proposals, which have come from the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, also deserve to be discussed. The solution must be born in the light of the whole, and if we add volunteer to this, we will, in my opinion, get one very good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U133	Thank you. Next, Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U134	Thanks for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, there has been a very serious and long debate on a crucial issue. I went to meet pensioners two weeks ago and, of course, ask me how I feel about this pension pillar. On that occasion, I took the view that the process of changing this pension pillar is justified because the value of money simply decreases all the time. If I have been bullying two speakers here today with questions about the purchasing power of 100 euros, compared to 2000 versus 2019, the Estonian Statistical Office will give an answer. Compared to today's 100 euro purchasing power, in 2019 it will have the same level of purchasing power of 185 euros. This is the position of the Estonian Statistical Office. There is, however, a different view on the calculation of the European average: this amount will be EUR 138-139, if I remember correctly. The question at the moment is that at this point in time, I believe that only the process of using money of the highest value that works from the point of view of pension fund managers is taking place. And this should certainly be changed: either to create alternative funds to create competition, or to withdraw money and place it in more profitable shares. However, I do not recommend that this money be used simply to make my purchases. That is my opinion on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U135	Thank you. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U136	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, good ladies and gentlemen. I felt that I had to speak on this issue again. I think there has been a good debate here today: there have been meaningful presentations, there have been emotions. And I liked very much myself when colleagues from the Fatherland said that there were many good points in our draft, that we would talk about it all. Very good! Similarly, we are ready to talk about other points that may still be coming and that are reasonable. Perhaps I will simply repeat that if we now go back to the time when the current pension system started, it is clear that one of the main reasons was the demographic situation in Estonia. And that reason hasn't gone anywhere. I think it actually matters to everyone who has stayed in this hall, and to everyone who was here before, that pensions will be as large as possible in the future, so that the state pension is not only so high as to guarantee the survival of a human being. I will give you an example from the 2019 study by Magnus Piirits. Magnus Boundary said roughly the following: in my age, I am almost 52 years old, the share of second-pillar pension in the total pension is about 20%. But for those who are now 30 years old, it accounts for 45% to almost half. If there is no second pillar, these people have almost half the pension. I think this is quite a serious question, and we need to find a sensible solution to this issue together here. Priit Sibul said we had a very good bill otherwise, but it was too late and too lean. I am now looking forward to this second draft, which has been discussed for a very long time and which the coalition parties will bring to this hall at some point. With regard to this bill, I have a very big request for you. Today, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, a team from the Ministry of Justice presented good legislative practice. It brings together a lot of very sensible principles. I will name three of them and expect them to be taken into account in the draft coalition. First, the intention to develop. It must be very clear to everyone what problem we are solving, how we consult different social groups. Second, impact analysis. It is crucial that we have confirmation of what is proposed by one choice or another, one amendment or another, and how it will affect pensions in the future. Because really, we can only solve future problems. We can look at the car in the rear-view mirror here and discuss why one thing or another was in the past anyway, but we're not going to turn the clock back. And thirdly, if we have done a good preparatory work and good impact analyses, then we can make knowledge-based choices. We can look our voters in the eye without shame, knowing that this bill would be a law that would claim the title of the best law of this year or next year. So, above all, I would like us all to have our senses in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-10_U137	Thank you. There's no more calls. I thank all the waitresses, thank all the questioners! As usual, the Riigikogu will not take a decision to conclude such a debate. The sitting is adjourned. But I recommend all members of the Riigikogu to stop by the lower lobby, because today 100 years passed after the adoption of the Estonian Land Act and an exhibition on this topic was opened a little while ago. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 1.49 p.m.
