ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. The Tuesday session of the second working week of the IX plenary session will begin with the referral of drafts and proposals. That's not what you want. Requesting presence check! 66 delegates will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Today's first item is the draft of the Riigikogu's decision "Proposal to the Government of the Republic to suspend the process of ratification of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation." Quite briefly, I will remind you of the procedure for dealing with this item. First, there is the author's presentation, which lasts up to 20 minutes. The presentation of the representative of the commission shall also last for up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu can submit one oral question to each of the rapporteurs, and the delegates of the political groups and committees take the floor in the negotiations. The final vote requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. I invite a speech chair to be presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Henn Põllamaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U3	Dear Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu! I am in the Riigikogu during this very composition of the Riigikogu speaking on this very subject for several times already. To my satisfaction, it seems that there are more of you in this Chamber today than there were on previous occasions. I do not know whether this is due to the fact that you want to show that you are more active in these matters and that you are more serious about defending Estonia's interests, or whether it is just laziness that you do not want to leave here right now. In all previous times, when the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has submitted a draft to take back the creative Estonian-Russian border agreement, all other parties have voted against this draft. I don't know if it's worth telling you about this history, the events we're in today's situation. I've talked about this before. Perhaps it should, because it seems as if you are not interested, as if you are not interested in the interests of Estonia, as if you are not interested in the territorial integrity of Estonia. That is why I have the feeling that perhaps I am not going to tell you even though I hope you will listen, but instead I am going to tell the people of Estonia and all those who should listen or watch or do this later. I've written a book on it, by the way. Here it is. Here is the story of the Estonian border, from the creation of the Estonian state to the present day, everything that has happened, everything that has been done, everything that anyone has said, and even everything that anyone has thought. Take this book from the library because you can't find it in stores long ago, and read it. I hope you will also think that there will be a follow-up to this book, because the border saw is not over. I hope you don't want to be in there as negative examples. But Estonia's border was one of the same lines as it is today or, in other words, the temporary control line developed when Estonia was not even occupied, but Russia unilaterally declared the territories behind Petseri County and Narva to belong to it in 1944. It was a gross violation of international law, just as Russia is now acting with its other neighbouring countries, Georgia and Ukraine: it has conquered, occupied, annexed their territories. There is no difference in the occupation of Estonian territories; the only difference is time: our territories were occupied earlier, the areas of Crimea and Georgia of Ossetia later. That's the only difference. You here, Estonian political parties, have fought very bravely and have spoken for the territorial integrity of other countries, condemned Russia's aggression, but it is only a hypocritical bubble race, because you forget it and you close your eyes to what is happening in Estonia, in front of the fact that 5.2% of our territory is equally occupied and annexed. All your talk about the Russians moving out of Crimea is hypocritical. This shows, in fact, your deep disregard for the Estonian state, for the fight and sacrifice of our ancestors, for our future. Next thing you know, you're ready to give up Northeast Estonia and don't know what. Do you think about what you're doing? How do you look your fathers and grandfathers in the eye, how you explain to your children and grandchildren that, oh, no, we don't need it, we don't need it, we don't need it from this territory of Estonia, which is because it is sacred and inviolable according to the Constitution and also according to all moral and ethical considerations? You've all taken an oath to protect it, you should be prepared to protect it to the death. Instead, the Estonian state, the government and the Riigikogu are pursuing a policy whose sole purpose is to play according to Russia's will. Who are the putinists who actually grant the Kremlin's wishes? Until 1994, Estonia stood bravely for us to get back the territories resulting from the Tartu Peace Treaty, but after that, by the way, under the leadership of the sots, everything changed. Andres Tarand came out first, followed by Lennart Meri with his wishes. In the end, brave negotiation, standing up for his own interests were replaced by total groveling, submissiveness, pulling his tail between his legs and concluding a creative border agreement, where none of Estonia's wishes or goals have been fulfilled. On all issues, Russia has been given up and given up, which has linked the negotiations to all other issues. Everything was accepted. Everything was accepted, I'm sorry! Like a prostitute, but not an independent sovereign state of dignity, which we should be. The border treaty is a direct violation of our constitution, which says that the territory of Estonia is uniform and indivisible. In 1937 Jüri Uluots explained this section in such a way that it literally means this: Estonia's territory is uniform and indivisible; not a single part of it can be given away. Paragraph 122 states that the land border between Estonia and Russia is determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty. That is what this means: the land border between Estonia and Russia is determined by the Tartu Peace Treaty, which states exactly where the border runs. The Tartu Peace Treaty is in the UN register of existing international treaties, which is also valid today. The temporary check line, which has been set by circumstances, acts as a state border, it works perfectly. This brings us to the lies that have been presented to justify this border treaty which is a serious violation of Estonia's interests. We were once told that Estonia would not become a member of the European Union or NATO unless we had to conclude this border agreement. We know it's wrong. We are both in the European Union and NATO. The fact that there was no new border treaty didn't matter. Then we were told how our relationship would improve after we made this sacrifice and gave the size of Saaremaa a piece of our fatherland to our aggressor and the occupier. After all, in 2005, Latvia made exactly the same deal and gave the occupied Abrene territories to the Russians. Can anyone say that relationships are even better now? No, it's not. I examined the objections of the various parties to the withdrawal of their signature on previous occasions. These arguments have been put forward in the past. There were such reasons that once we have taken this direction, we must not take a different course and rethink; the continuity of the country is important. Come on, I'm sorry! If the captain sees that the ship is on the rocks, then it is the captain's duty to turn the wheel and tell the men that we must do everything we can not go down. What are you talking about, the state can't resign from an agreement that is harmful to itself? Of course you can. Then it has been argued that now is not the right time. So when is the right time? Right now, when Russia has shown that it spits on international agreements and international law, when Russia has shown us that it is an unhindered hostile state and its aim is to restore the empire and has repeatedly announced that during our independence, the Tartu Peace Treaty is just a paper worth going to the toilet. When would it be a better time? Just now is the time to finally stand up and say that we stand up for our fatherland, we stand up for the territorial integrity of our country, and we resign from this agreement. When this proposal was discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the representative of the Fatherland also found that the only reason we now come up with it is the approaching elections. Not at all. The Estonian Conservative People's Party is a party that stands for the interests of the Estonian state and Estonian nation. We have come up with this before. And if you should reject this bill today, we will come out with it again and again, because we want Estonia to be a really dignified country, not some Kremlin's foot. But it is right that right now, before the elections, it is a very good time for all of you to show your true face. I have not read about any party programme, neither the election programme nor the main programme, so that your aim is to surrender these areas to Russia. Therefore, I hope that you, who are sitting here today, and you, who are still here to vote, dare to vote as ambassadors, will really stand up for your constituents and the Estonian people. And we will do it, just as Russia announced in 2005 that they had withdrawn from this border agreement, because the Estonian side put a reference to the peace of Tartu in the preamble. What does it say? Russia claims that Tartu peace costs nothing, and this agreement is only a historic document, but if we put this reference in the preamble, which does not have legal content and which does not oblige Russia to do anything, then they even felt that it would give us the right to submit to them later territorial claims. So they actually recognize the peace of Tartu, they know that it is valid and that it will not get away with it. But if we conclude this border agreement, our legal scientists have repeatedly confirmed it ♪ by doing so we will also cancel the Tartu Peace Treaty for our own part. Because the border issue was one of the most important points of the peace treaty, in addition to Russia's promise in the peace agreement to recognise Estonia's immunity forever and to waive all claims against us. If we cancel the Tartu Peace Treaty with this agreement, will you understand what you can do? Our Information Office and the CEOs have repeatedly drawn attention to those who are called useful idiots, to those who are called agents of influence. We all know what these terms mean, what such people do, whose interests they represent. I will bring another aspect here and take a step forward. I'll remind you of people like Simm, Dressen, the Forest, the carpenter, etc. Their common denominator is that they were not just useful idiots or agents, but were traitors. If we look at the fact that the new border treaty is directly contrary to our constitution and the Penal Code says that acts directed against Estonia's territorial integrity are treason, then I suggest that you think about who you have so far supported this border agreement, what this step means if, with your approval, 5.2% of our territory is given to Russia, without anyone demanding or wishing to recover compensation, or if you had asked Russia for the assets of the University of Tartu that have been taken there, or if you had even called for our President's official money back. Oh, no! In the same way, no one is asking for a red cross for the resources that remain in Russia. Behind the Narva River, oil shale deposits contain about 400 million tons of oil shale, from which diesel fuel would cover our needs for 70 years. Can you imagine what it's worth? We don't need it. We don't care about glass sand in Petseriland, we don't need it. We don't care about pottery clay in Petseri County, we don't need it. We also do not need the property of tens of thousands of people left in Petseri County. We spit on about 10,000 Estonian citizens, whom we leave in Petseri County. We don't need them. We don't need anything. What country is it, which government is it, which members of the Riigikogu are they, who are willing to spit on their own country and nation, on the constitution, on our interests? In this respect, it is really good that elections are coming. We have raised this issue once again, and the people who, by the way, according to the 2005 survey, when this border treaty was signed for the first time, 82.5% were against the surrender of the Estonian territories, have a clear picture of whom it is worth giving a vote on, by whom it is not, by whom it stands for Estonia, who is not, and which political parties carry in their hearts the ade of Estonianhood, the ade of our independence, the ade of sovereignty. Everything else you're saying here, all the reasons you can put out after my performance, it's empty air, it's like a buzzing fly in your ears. It doesn't have any substance, it's just a pathetic self-righteousness to show that there's some sense in your groveling. But it's not. It is our duty to stand up for Estonia. That's why I'm calling you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U4	Dear waitress, have you finished? According to paragraph 67, you could have asked for additional time, but a decision has already been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U5	I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U6	Questions. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U7	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! I have this question: if we gave up this border agreement, if Estonia took its signature back from it, then what would happen if we turned the meter back to zero? What is our plan or what should be Estonia's plan for relations with Russia, especially in the dispute over territory?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U8	Very simple. The Tartu Peace Treaty border still applies, according to international law, it is our territory. In agreement with Russia and in accordance with our border agreement, a temporary reference line has been established which acts as a state border. In this respect, I do not believe that there will be any change in the coming days or in the coming years. Russia has taken these areas from us by force, of course we will not go back to take them by force. But we waited 50 years for our independence, and we can wait again and again, maybe someday we can get these areas back. There are no moral, economic, political or whatever reasons why we should give these areas away free of charge to Russia, which is an aggressor who does not care about international law and who has openly shown hostility to us. In this respect, there will be no change in relations; they will not get better or worse. The Latvian example shows this excellently. Good relations depend only on Russia, we can walk on our heads. If we joined the CIS, that might be the only thing that would improve relationships. But nothing else. So, in fact, for some time, the occupation and the annexation would certainly continue in our territories, but we can still show that we are truly an independent and dignified country that stands up for its own interests and does not become a ridiculous country before the whole world who, in times of peace, without the aggressor threatening in any way militaryly or in what way, gives away his own territories. So in 2005, Russia made it possible to withdraw its signature. In 2019, Estonia could withdraw its signature. If there are indeed those who would like to abandon it, then it is also possible to start new rounds of negotiations, based precisely on Russia paying off all the damage caused by the occupation and all the assets remaining in the occupied areas of private individuals and companies and paying the state of Estonia for the mineral assets and everything else. We can discuss that, but not just by giving everything away for free and saying we don't need anything. That's insane. Besides, we can also put this issue to a referendum. After all, all the points of the Constitution that I read to you earlier clearly say that this border treaty cannot be concluded, it is unconstitutional, and the Constitution itself says that Estonia does not conclude foreign agreements that are contrary to the Constitution. In order to change the border, a referendum, a referendum, is needed to change the constitution. These are the possibilities to change this border, but I see absolutely no reason or need for it. All the more so since even the Supreme Council declared that we wanted to return to the areas of the Tartu Peace Treaty, as declared by the Estonian Committee, the Riigikogu. This has been our continuing direction, in between, you can just read the three categories that I read before, the prank that we have to straighten out. But we weren't alone either through the entire occupation. These same requests have also been made by all the other occupied countries. I will read to you a few times when the whole world stood behind us and demanded the restoration of our independence and territorial integrity. In 1975, the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe confirmed in Helsinki that the post-war borders of European countries should not be changed violently. How was the Estonian border changed? The United States, England, France and other Western countries declared that they did not recognise the occupation of the Baltic states committed by the Soviet Union and their violently modified borders. In 1983, the European Parliament adopted a decision condemning the occupation of the Baltic States by the Soviet Union. In 1983, U.S. President Reagan declared that the Soviet Union is violating international law by continuing illegal occupation of the Baltic States, as proclaimed in the UN Charter and subsequent UN General Assembly resolutions. In 2005, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on World War II which condemned the communist occupation in Eastern European countries. In 2005, the US Congress House of Representatives adopted a resolution calling on Russia to recognise the occupation of the Baltic States, apologise for it and condemn illegal annexation. In 2006, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution condemning the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes against communism and calling for their consequences to be eliminated. What is the occupation and annexation of our territories other than the crime of communism? But the Estonian state wants to legalize it, wants to give it a legal basis. It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U9	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U10	Dear Vice-Chairman, Good Henn! I will continue from your last sentence in particular: why then have we come to the point that the Estonian state wants to legalise the situation that the Soviet Union, which Russia has created. However, it has often been said in this Chamber that, in fact, relations between us and Russia depend only on Russia and its will. So here, obviously, there is no reason for anyone to think that a national border agreement would help to improve these matters. If there's will, they'll heal if there's no will... What, then, may be behind it that we have reached the point where the signatures are really under there? What could this thing be? Do you have any ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U11	I think it is not even a question of a million dollars, but a question of hundreds of billions of dollars or euros. I don't have an answer for that. We are really giving up the hundreds of billions that we are giving to Russia with this agreement. Why has it been done? I don't know. One of the reasons may be that Estonia did not have an illustration after Estonia regained independence: former authorities, quails and collaborators remained in power. Maybe that's the reason, because they were all connected by umbilical cord to the Kremlin, KGB, GRU and God knows what, and that umbilical cord continued after Russia's so-called independence from the Soviet Union with the FSB and other umbilical cords. That's one of the reasons. President Arnold Rüütel has said that more than 30% of the members of the first Riigikogu were KGB agents, co-workers, informants. I don't doubt that number. This may give an explanation why, after Estonia really bravely fought for independence, a few years later such strange stories began to occur that negotiations with Russia turned into anything but negotiations; they turned into submissive capitulation. The situation is certainly different today than it was in the first Riigikogus, but I can see that there is no will to stand up for the Estonian state. Those who do not have this will should think very deeply whether they belong at the helm of the Estonian state or elsewhere. So, unfortunately, I do not have the answer to give you, good Raivo, why they want to harm the interests of the Estonian state in such a consistent, determined manner and to conclude this border agreement. This is not appropriate for an independent and sovereign state, because it is not required of us by anyone, as I said before. Nor does the European Union demand this, nor does our NATO allies, nor does our people demand it, nor does anyone but some strange renegade society, nor does the Kremlin and Russia, for whom this agreement is directly in their interests. So if today should happen that this bill is again rejected, I would like to see these rejections be able to wash themselves away from this shame, from this direct support for Russia, and how they will be able to reject claims and accusations that it is a putinist step, which is undoubtedly what it is, and how they will then be able to accuse the other people who are standing for Estonia of taking account of the interests of Putinism or the Kremlin.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U12	Rainer Vakra.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Unlike you, my grandfather has indeed stood by the gun in his hand for Estonia's freedom, twice, Konstantin Päts has been shaking his hand and he is deeply concerned to hear what you have said. He asked me to ask you why you want these Russian citizens here in Estonia. He also asked to clarify that only 2% of Estonians are present in the Petseri district, for example, and he is seriously opposed to this idea. Do not speak on behalf of all those who have really put their lives at risk in order for Estonia to be free. What would you say to a man born in 1925 who really thinks it's a wrong decision? What do I tell my grandfather, good Henn? Briefly and without insulting me, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U14	Good Rainer! Unlike you, my two grandfathers have fought in the War of Independence with a gun in their hands. Unlike you, my great-grandfather Estonia was the first military health officer during the war on freedom. Unlike you, my aunt Andres Larka was the first war minister in the Republic of Estonia. Unlike you, my father, the gun in his hand, fought for the Republic of Estonia, he was both a Finnish boy and came back with the others in 1944 and fought here. So don't tell me those stories, please! And if I represent the people here, I have a perfectly clear mandate to do so. As I mentioned before, according to the polls that have been carried out over the years, 70-80% of people and more than that have been quite clearly opposed to the surrender of Estonian territories and the new border treaty. That's the voice of the people you want to cross again with a red roller. As for Estonians living in Petseri County, according to Russia, 25 000 people live in Petseri County. This figure has changed a little in recent years, but young people are leaving so that the number of inhabitants continues to decline. According to Russia, there are 10,000 and 15,000 Estonian citizens. And that's it. Plus the Midsummer City with about 10,000 people. So, in fact, what has been said in the past, that we are going to have 100,000 to 200,000 Russians, is a completely empty story, an absolute lie and a demagoguery. Let's see how many migrant workers came to Estonia last year, 2018, 20,000 and more. Plus everything else. Those who came here to learn, there are hundreds of them. They come here with a study visa and then exchange the basis for their stay, asking for a permanent residence permit. Plus the whole world that is open to us: the European Union, the US, Canada, Japan, etc. So, in fact, immigration has multiplied every year. Next year maybe 30,000 people will come, the Home Office has predicted that 33000. How much more people we can get back to our territory will be next to it. Besides, you can be sure that they do not all want to come to Estonia. [[A voice from the hall.]] But do the math! I told you the numbers. Didn't you study arithmetic at school? That's too bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U15	Please, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U16	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm lucky you don't get into debate with me and demagogy about who's more Estonian. I even have two questions. As a member of the Riigikogu, you are also familiar with the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu and you are well aware that those drafts that do not pass the third reading in one of the Riigikogu's formations fall out of the procedure anyway. It also awaits the same draft law on the border treaty. On this basis, two questions. You have said several times that Estonia's territory has been occupied. Please tell us what trick the Republic of Estonia will be free with. I'm asking for a simple answer. Secondly, you've talked about useful idiots several times. Looking at this bill, I wonder who the useful idiot is flirting with Kremlin propaganda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U17	Thank you. If, for example, in 1980, we had been asked what kind of trick would Estonia be free, would anyone in this hall have been able to say that? No one could have done it in 1985. Neither can I tell you how these occupied territories will be free. But it is quite clear that we have no reason whatsoever and even the right to simply give them away. There's no reason for that. As I said, we waited 50 years to regain our independence, and we can wait now. It won't take a piece off of us, absolutely. Let's wait, let's see. God knows what happens in the world. No one expected the Soviet Union to fall apart, but it happened. Perhaps one day it will also happen that Russia will become a democratic country that really wants good neighbourly relations and good relations with its neighbours. Even the most impossible things have happened in the world. Let's wait, let's see. You don't need any other trick. Just wait and see, hope and pray. What was the second question? I don't remember. Oh, the question of standing up for the Kremlin's interests. After all, it is clear what is in the Kremlin's interest to get a piece of land. Or is it in our best interest that we surrender our territory? There's no two ways to think. Of course, the Kremlin's interests are protected by those who want to violate our Constitution, our territorial integrity, our integrity, and who want to end the Tartu Peace Treaty, which is the birth certificate of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U18	Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I heard from your report that in the mid-1990s the people who negotiated the border agreement on behalf of Estonia did not stand enough for the national interests of Estonia. You indicated that this might have something to do with their communist past, that they were in some way Kremlin henchmen. I see that your party chairman Mart Helme has worked in the Marxism-Leninism Department of the Estonian Book, worked in the Pioneer magazine of the pioneer organization, and in the mid-1990s he was an Estonian ambassador in Russia and, of course, also participated in the discussion on this issue. With your speech, did you evaluate Mart Helme's activities as Estonian ambassador at the time, that he did not stand up for Estonian national interests enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U20	Thank you. Typical social tagging and demagoguery with no content whatsoever. Yes, in Russian times, indeed, all kinds of institutions and departments had strange names. It doesn't mean anything. You're still an editor when you do book editing and stuff. You should know perfectly what the duties and duties of the ambassador of the Republic of Estonia are, how the diplomat behaves and according to what instructions. Are our diplomats conducting independent foreign policy in some countries in America, Russia, anywhere? If you say so, you are extremely naive and still have not understood the functioning of the Estonian state or politics or diplomacy at all, even though you have also been a minister. "Sit down, two," you might say. Of course, the diplomat carries out the duties and tasks assigned to him, he follows the guidelines given. That's right. But the question is who gives these tasks, who has made these decisions. Here's the water leash that goes between useful idiots, agents, traitors, and just fools.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U21	Thank you very much for the waitress. According to our rules, one question can be asked to each of the rapporteurs, not, for example, by asking two questions to the first rapporteur and by asking zero to the second. So, Olga Ivanova and Martin Helme, if you're interested in presenting them, they're going to Mart Nut. So, ladies and gentlemen, when the waitress showed a book she wrote during her presentation, I noticed the reaction of the hall. It attracted attention. Very often, small exaggerations may bring the truth closer. In general, we have avoided this kind of activity on this platform, because let us imagine that some waitress will bring along some of the spirit products that are quite clearly related to his presentation, such as trench carpets, metal works, graphic sheets or paintings.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U22	Why not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U23	In this sense, I think this example is adequate, for the spirit product 'book' also belongs to this category. Perhaps a friendly recommendation to colleagues: it may always be a reference that I have written such a book and such, but let us avoid the demonstration of the book, because we are tolerant and friendly here, but society and the media, who closely monitor our activities, can categorise it as advertising. Thank you very much. I now invite Mart Nut, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this draft on 17 January and members of the Riigikogu and members of the committee Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Andres Herkel, Anne Sulling, Barbi Pilvre, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Nutt, Oudekki Loone, as alternate member Urve Tiidus, Vladimir Velman, Birgit Keerd-Leppik as advisor and Ivar Mölder as advisor. In the minutes, Laura Särg and Marko Mihkelson, the chairman of the meeting. At the meeting of the Commission, Henn Põljaas gave a comprehensive overview on behalf of the initiators of the draft. Not as thorough as it is in this room today, but thorough enough. The members of the Commission unanimously acknowledged, apart from the initiator himself, that the issue is not really topical at the moment. Why? The ratification of the border agreement is currently in a frozen state, the Russian Federation has not been interested in it, and therefore the Estonian Government has already taken the view that we will not move forward with the process of ratifying the border agreement until it is dealt with by the Russian Federation. When that time comes, if that time comes, I can't tell you right now. So the Members of the Commission were generally of the opinion that the issue was not topical, which means that it is not exactly appropriate to address this issue at the moment either. I am not going to refer to the more precise positions of the Members of the Commission, to this issue they revolved around, and the protocol is available to all of us. However, I would like to highlight a few aspects that are important in this case. Indeed, we are not currently discussing the ratification of the border treaty, we are discussing the proposal to the Government of the Republic. And there was no vote on how the border agreement was viewed, the question could not be put, whether or not to support the submission of a proposal to the Government of the Republic. Consequently, the result of the vote was that this proposal was supported by Mr Põljaas alone and not supported by other members of the Commission. I take this opportunity to stress, as rapporteur for the Commission, what is needed in order to ratify the border agreement. This requires three readings and requires a two-thirds majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, i.e. at least 68 votes. Otherwise, ratification of the border agreement will not be possible. This is where we are. We are not discussing the ratification of the border treaty today, but the proposal to the Government of the Republic, which is a completely different matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U25	There are questions for the waitress. Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U26	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! Did the Commission also mention that, in essence, this proposal is such that Estonia should start negotiating the border with the Russian Federation again? If we were to take such a step now, would we have the hope that in some way we would have a better deal than what we had agreed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U27	Thank you. I cannot say this, of course, but I can say that proposing to the government requires at least a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, which means 51 votes. Secondly, if this proposal is found to be supported by the Riigikogu, it is not binding on the government and does not, in fact, oblige the government to withdraw its signature. If the government decides to withdraw the signature, I think the whole process is zero, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U28	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, However, 458 people are currently watching this broadcast online, and when they listened to the previous debate, they may have the idea that if this decision is supported today, then tomorrow we will have Petserimaa and Jaanilinn and its back, Parussinka, back in Estonia and, if not, we will lose. As a representative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, how can you comment on this? People need to know what we're doing here. It's just a pre-election ad for one party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U30	Thank you. Unfortunately, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and as a co-rapporteur for the draft, I can only say 'no', which will change nothing in the border situation. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U31	Honourable waitress, thank you very much. There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. I repeat that authorised representatives of the political groups and committees will take the floor. Please, on behalf of the EKRE Group, Mr Helme. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U32	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Since Marti isn't here today, I'm gonna take a pronouncement for him. Jevgeni Ossinovski has been exposed as the owner of a false account on Facebook, where he has been trolling under Eugenius' name, but today we learned that he is also trolling in the Evening Paper. Talking about some sort of Marxism-Leninism school is quite typical talk and common slander. According to Jevgeni Ossinovsky, a person assigned from the university to work at a collective farm called Lenin, for example, was a communist henchman. But let's get to the point. Why do we think that the border agreement in the form that it has signed and signed between Estonia and Russia, but not yet ratified, is wrong? First of all, the most important legal aspect is that any new border that we have with Russia and which does not coincide entirely with the Tartu Peace border is unconstitutional. § 122 of the Constitution makes it quite clear that the eastern border of Estonia is determined by the Tartu Peace border. If the border that we are signing an agreement with Russia is running from somewhere else, we need to change the constitution in advance. It's so simple. We can always do that, there is a procedure for amending the constitution, for that, in any case, we must ask the people for a mandate. However, if we do not change the Constitution, such a border agreement cannot be concluded in this Chamber, in which case the Riigikogu will deal with the violation of the Constitution and the violation of its oath of office. That's one. Second. The border agreement, the process of ratification of which is ongoing here, is detrimental to Estonia economically, because very many mineral resources and natural riches are beyond the border, and the private property of the people remains behind the border. But he's also politically detrimental to us. The waitress, Henn Põlluaas, also spoke about this. In essence, in such a case, the Republic of Estonia declares its legitimacy null and void because it voluntarily and on its own initiative withdraws from the Tartu Peace Treaty and thereby takes away the opportunity to speak about Estonia as a restored state, takes away the opportunity to talk about continuity, for example, in the case of citizenship, language policy, etc., with all the consequences resulting from it. This is extremely damaging to Estonia politically. It is also against the will of the people. Henn Põlluaas also pointed out that the Estonian population did not approve of this. Now, from this story, it's like it's pre-election advertising. Well, forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know anything that would take place in politics or in the Riigikogu two or three months before the elections and that would not be pre-election advertising. If someone does something in politics two months before the elections, which he cannot turn into pre-election advertising, he is simply unfit for politics. There are also such parties in Estonia. Today, there is a point on the agenda, something exactly the same applies to the rearing of fur animals. We do not have much on the agenda that would not be a clear statement from one party or another, which puts other parties in a position where they have to choose sides and explain their choice to voters. Yes, I agree, just as Mart Nutt said, this is not a direct conclusion to the ratification process. That's not really our point. That the ratification process will be interrupted by the end of the membership, we all know that we are pleased about, but our aim, the purpose of this draft decision, is to withdraw the signature of the border agreement, that is, to abandon the border agreement, to cease to apply for ratification of this border agreement, to withdraw the signature of the treaty which is harmful to Estonia and to Estonia's anti-constitutional border agreement. So what happens next? What's this road supposed to be? The way forward is to put all our demands on the table. The way forward is that in relations with Russia, in negotiations with Russia, the 'taximeter' must be turned to zero and return, in principle, to the first half of the nineties. We will put all our demands on the table, starting from the fact that we want to get our President's official money back, we want to get back the property of the University of Tartu, we want to demand the damage caused by the occupation, and by concluding that Russia recognises its moral guilt and responsibility in the liquidation, occupation, annexation and mass repression of Estonia during the occupation. We'll put all these things on the table and then we'll negotiate. If, then, we really come to an agreement, and if, indeed, this agreement involves shifting the border line, we will go through the correct procedure for constitutional change, we will ask the people for a mandate to do so, and then we will conclude this border agreement. The Estonian border treaty with Russia is not given to Moses from Mount Sinai; the Estonian constitution is not unchangeable, but this amendment must be done correctly. It's not like we're messing up something here somehow. So that's our goal. We want other parties to understand this too, and of course we want voters to understand it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U33	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. No amendments have been tabled to draft 767. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, we will discuss this draft at one reading and this will be followed by a final vote, which we will now prepare within a few minutes. Honourable Riigikogu, since a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required to take the draft as a decision, we will do a verification of the presence. There are 70 MPs present. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia 'Proposaling the Government of the Republic to suspend the process of ratification of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation' draft 767. Please take a stand and vote. 14 delegates voted in favour of the draft, against 51. The draft 767 did not find the support of the Riigikogu and falls out of the procedure. I'm sorry! Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U34	Jüri Adams showed green, but there's no one there. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Jüri istubki seal. Ta istus minu kõrval, rääkis juttu. Ole rahulik, kõik on hästi.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U35	He must have a wide reach, that he pressed the right button, even though he was somewhat wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U36	The second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Defence League Act initiated by the member of the Riigikogu, Ants Laaneots. Please waitress Ants Laaneots, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U37	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, In a world of increasing security threats, it is important that the legislation governing the activities of national defence institutions and organisations is timely and appropriate and allows for an adequate response to potential threats. The Estonian Defence Forces have two components: Defence Forces and Defence League. While the powers and rights of the Defence Forces are legally more or less guaranteed in national defence laws, the Defence League Act is partly out of the way. Some examples. The powers and rights of the Defence League in the performance of national defence tasks are clearly undefined, the Defence Union has no right to defend its territory and its equipment itself, to use force against a malicious intruder, etc. The law must be amended to allow some of the organisation's powers and activities to be qualitatively aligned with the capabilities of the Defence Forces. The Defence League, as the territorial voluntary safety carpet of the Estonian state, must be flexible in its activities, allow its members to be used in the best possible way to carry out a broad approach to national defence and offer social guarantees to its members. This requires, first of all, better regulation of the involvement of the Defence League in the activities of the Defence Forces. According to the current national defence laws, the Defence Forces can only involve the Defence League in the organisation of educational gatherings and additional training gatherings. This is only a small part of the range of Defence Forces activities. The draft law will also allow the Defence Forces to involve the Defence League in preparing for the military defence of the State, the military defence of the State and participation in collective self-defence and participation in international military cooperation. The Defence League must also have the right to form and secure Defence Forces units outside study gatherings, for example during mobilization to support allies or to participate in joint exercises with Defence Forces units. Secondly, the Defence Union must be given the right to create a security area and, if necessary, to impose direct coercion on it. In a situation where the state has significantly reduced the staff of the internal security institutions in cities and counties, I am thinking here of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board, it is important that the Defence League itself is able to defend its area of responsibility and its objects and, if necessary, to impose pressure on uninvited guests. The territory of the Defence Forces, as well as land, sea and aircraft, is a security area defined in the Order of the Defence Forces Act, but although the Defence League often performs part of the same tasks as the Defence Forces in peacetime conditions with its resources, it does not have a security area de jure. The addition to the Act enables the Defence League to carry out military training of its active members on the same basis as the Defence Forces. In the event, for example, of a domestic riot or riot, as shown in April 2007, the main force of the police has been applied to the state's important objects and to the protection of order, or they carry out other duties under the law of law and order. The police also lack the resources to ensure the security or protection of defenceal objects of the Defence League. The draft therefore proposes to grant the Defence League, like the Defence Forces, the right to create a security area for essential defence objects in its possession and to give the relevant trained members of the Defence League the right to exercise direct coercion against the attacker, if necessary. Pursuant to § 84 of the Bill, campuses, headquarters buildings, rear and training centres, weapons and other warehouses, machinery parks and shooting galleries owned and held by the Defence League's security area. Foreigners may come with the permission of an official of the Defence League. The temporary area of security is mainly the study fields of the territory which the Head of the Defence League or its authorised head of the structural unit has provisionally defined as a security area for the time when exercises or shooting exercises are taking place there. Thirdly, the active members of the Defence League must be assured that if they are involved in the performance of national defence tasks under the Government of the Republic, they will also receive certain benefits. Several legislation and planning documents, such as the Emergency and Law Enforcement Act, provide that the Defence League may be involved in the performance of its tasks for a maximum period of three months. In practice, this period has lasted an average of 30 calendar days. Under the current Defence League Act, the active member has the right to ask his employer for unpaid leave of only 10 calendar days per year for the performance of his duties, and the Defence League can only compensate for five calendar days for the average wage in the country. This is obviously unfair to Estonian citizens who voluntarily agree to contribute their time, strength and other resources to national defence in a situation where the state itself is unable to carry out all its tasks. Defence Leagues also have loans, leases and families. It is therefore only right to include in the Defence Union Act the provision that subordinate entities or members of the organisation may be involved for a period of up to 30 calendar days during a period of peace and that the active members may, throughout that period, require their employer to take unpaid additional leave and the Defence League may pay compensation in full. This will give the people of Estonia greater motivation to contribute to the tasks of the Defence League, without seriously damaging the economic situation of the families. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U38	The hall thanks for the report! There are no questions. I would like to ask Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Committee, to present the procedural decisions of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As mentioned in the initiator's presentation, the draft specifies the association of the Defence League with the Defence Forces in the gatherings of training and additional training and in preparation for the collective defence of the state in the event of military crises and its implementation and participation in international military cooperation. The terms and conditions of the cooperation shall be laid down by the Government of the Republic in its decree. Paragraph 52 of the Act amending the Defence League Act sets out the definition of "immediate compulsion', which is directly linked to the new chapter "Security Area of the Defence Union'. The latter, in turn, also provides for a temporary area of security. There is nothing new with regard to the security area of the Defence Union, as the Order of the Defence Forces Act provides for security areas and the wording set out in the draft coincides with the wording of the Order of the Defence Forces Act. Moreover, in practice the Defence Leagues have been exposed to the security areas of the Defence Forces, as they also participate in the exercises of the Defence Forces, guard the campuses and buildings, and use the training fields of the Defence Forces. As we know, the Defence Forces are serving in the Defence League, and they're rotting there. Professional guards are also in the service of the Defence League, so there should be no doubt that the security regulations of the Defence League will not be known or managed by the defence allies. In addition, the draft extends the right of the active member of the Defence League to receive up to 30 days' unpaid additional leave from the employer in the event of participation in military training, involvement of the Defence Forces or law enforcement activities, for which the Defence League may pay compensation. According to the current law, additional leave is limited to five days. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 14 January 2019, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the Management Board of the Riigikogu would be invited to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu on 22 January and the Riigikogu would be invited to conclude the first reading of the draft. A speaker was appointed to serve as a waitress for the National Defence Committee. Furthermore, the Committee on National Defence decided by consensus that the deadline for the submission of draft amendments would be 5 February at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U40	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much for the waitress. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft, but before that, the political groups will be able to negotiate. Is that what you want? No, it's not. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 786 amendments at 5 February at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U41	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act, which was initiated by the Committee on Rural Affairs. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U42	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has initiated a draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act. It has been developed in connection with the need to lay down a mandate rule for the Government of the Republic to confirm the existence of a situation in which weather conditions may cause significant damage to the economic activities of farmers. It gives both society and farmers, as well as other persons and organisations involved in the value chain of agricultural products, a message at national level that this is an exceptional situation. The Committee on Rural Development held four meetings in summer and autumn 2018 on drought damage. Representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trades (EPKKK), Estonian Farmers' Confederation, Estonian Gardening Association, Rural Development Foundation, Estonian Plant Production Institute, Jõgeva County Farmers' Association, Tartumaa Farmers' Association and Jaagumäe OÜ also participated in the extraordinary departure session held in Jõgeva Eesti Plant Production Institute on 30 July. In addition to those mentioned above, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment, the Environmental Board and the Agricultural Registers and Information Board participated in the meeting on 14 August. During the meetings, the situation in agriculture and possible measures to mitigate long-term drought losses were discussed. At the meeting of the Commission on 11 September, the Chairman of the Board of the EPK gave an overview of the studies carried out in order to determine the extent and nature of the damage caused by the drought. At the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs on 19 September, the focus was on drought damage in the animal, pig and poultry sectors. The purpose of the Act is to lay down a power of attorney for the Government of the Republic. According to the draft, in the event of adverse weather conditions which differ significantly from normal weather conditions and cause significant economic damage to farmers, the Government of the Republic may determine the occurrence of adverse weather conditions. The assessment of weather conditions shall be based on long-term observation data collected for normal years. The arrangements mentioned in the draft act are informative and do not affect the contractual relations between farmers. In recent years weather conditions have increased, which, based on long-term observations, differ significantly from normal weather conditions. For example, the start of the vegetation period in 2017 was colder than usual and therefore the harvest was delayed later, the harvesting period was rainy and many farmers did not harvest or the costs of the post-harvest were significantly higher than the normal year. In 2018, as we remember, spring and summer were very dry and droughts, which, according to the forecast, reduced crop yields by nearly 30%. At the meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs on 14 January, the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act was discussed and the Commission decided to initiate this draft by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U43	Are you proposing, for example, the deadline for tabling amendments?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U44	Right. That's a good question, but... [[Browse papers.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U45	Do I get it right that it's January 28th at 10:00?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U46	Yeah, that's January 28th, that's right, you're right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U47	Thank you very much. I'm opening a round of questions. There are no questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. It is now possible to negotiate and negotiate with representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 788. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 10 a.m. on 28 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U48	Today's fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection and Nature Conservation initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Hannes Hanso, Toomas Jürgenstein, Heljo Pikhof, Marianne Mikko, Barbi Pilvre, Heidy Purga, Hardi Volmer, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Inara Luigas, Oudekki Loone, Eiki Nestori, Madis Milling, Helmen Küti, Liina Kersna, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Yoko Alender, Jaanus Karilaidi and Heimar Leng. Please waitress to Barbi Pilvre, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu! Animal guards! Today, the Riigikogu has the historic opportunity to contribute to the termination of the brutal, psychologically difficult fur industry, which has lived away from its time in Estonia. 18 members of the Riigikogu from among Social Democrats, Reform Partyists and Central Partyists are behind this ethically-born bill, which ends up raising fur animals in Estonia with a five-year transitional period. Thousands of people in Estonia have signed animal protection petitions requiring the closure of fur farms. Many people, animalists, and animal friends, are actually very bad about the suffering of animals. I would stress that bear rearing is also psychologically difficult for farm workers. Even sociologists have studied and proved this in Estonia. This bill is therefore not intended to protect the hundreds of thousands of foxes and mints who have already been put to death, but to protect those people who would like Estonia to be a modern state where the fur industry, as a relic that has been left behind in time, would be banned. We no longer live in a cave where wrapping ourselves in animal skins was necessary for survival. We no longer live in the Middle Ages when wild animal skins had a function of money. Fortunately, we no longer live in a Soviet cultural space, when the Communist Party's leading figures were in nutria hats and karakulskis, and the ladies still had a mink-skin coat, hat or even two at home. I remember, too, that my childhood cat Basilio loved to sleep in my mother's mink hats, probably sensing some kind of kinship. We no longer live in Estonia in the nineties when men wore sports dress and drove a wet asphalt-colored Lada 09, and women put a coat on silk wash when they wanted to look sexy. This ridiculous time, fortunately, is over. The textile industry has evolved in such a way that it is possible to produce light and warm materials, including artificial fur, which is no longer distinguished from animal skin. It is worth looking around even in Estonian malls to see what the choice of artificial fur is. Two years ago, we were before the Riigikogu with a similar bill. Then the ban on the fur industry failed. What's changed since then? The already completely marginal industry, the fur industry in Estonia, continues to shrink because people prefer light modern materials to fur. Latest news on the ban on fur farms in the neighbouring countries: Norway just 2018, the Czech Republic, with a two-year transitional period of 2017 and Belgium will end in 2024, before Macedonia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina. The subject is on the agenda in Poland, Ireland, Lithuania. Partial bans apply in the Netherlands, which in the recent past was the leading fur industry, 2012 they banned mink farming, and Chinchilla farms have been banned there since the nineties. Denmark banned fox farms in 2009. In Sweden, for example, the regulation for the maintenance of foxes is such that the rearing of foxes is economically loss-making. In particular, animals are required to have large cages, conditions of movement, socialisation, etc. Many lands will end up in the fur industry in the coming years, such as Germany in 2022. The regulation of animal husbandry and environmental requirements are also tightening, making fur farming pointless. A number of countries have based their views on nature conservation and on the need to prevent the spread of alien species, such as Spain in 2015. Japan also banned its last fur farm in 2016. In the United States, there are different regulations from one state to another. For example, in the state of New York, the electrocution of animals is still banned in Estonia. In California, animal breeding has become economically pointless due to environmental conditions, while even the sale of fur has been prohibited in the trendy city of San Francisco since March 2018. As regards Finland, which has often been compared to Estonia in the discussions that have been held here, because it is a country with traditions in the Nordic and fur industry, there is much less fur industry than there, for example, 20 years ago, under the pressure of a strong animal protection movement called Animalia and the shrinking market. The last thing I remember was a surprising observation in the Forum mall in the centre of Helsinki, when the famous brand shop specialising in fur, which I remembered as a symbol of luxurious life and capitalism when I looked at Finnish television when I was growing up, was the emptying sale in Ajatar, which specialized in coats, even Russian tourists can no longer be rescued. A total ban or substantial industrial change is in favour of 69% of people in Finland, only 17% of people are in favour of continuing to farm fur in Finland in its current form, and 39% are in favour of continuing if the living conditions of animals are significantly improved. This leads, however, to a decrease in the economic worth of this industry. In Finland, parliamentary elections are in April and it is known that the draft banning the fur industry is again under discussion there. The farm of AS Balti Karuskõte Karjaküla, owned by Finns, near Keila, where we visited the environmental committee a few months ago, is the largest livestock farming in Estonia. Its number of employees has fallen from 70 to about 40 in a few years, and the company does not have the best times because the market has dried up. The fur industry continues to shrink in Finland, as I have already said, also in the motherland of the company. The labour force is snatched because, as we know, this work is very difficult mentally and physically. In Estonia, according to various data, there is a chinchilla farm with a few dozen animals, which is built in empty stables and has been regarded as one of the signs of rural resuscitation, but this is not the main source of income for people; these farms are really miniature. The issue of environmental impacts has emerged during the procedure of the draft. Those in favour of continuing the fur industry have argued that fur is a renewable natural resource, the production of which is nature-friendly, that fur farms consume waste from other industries, such as meat and fish industry, and that the remaining pieces of meat from skins can be used for biofuel production, which is a theoretical possibility in Estonia to date. These pieces of meat can be chipped and ground for animal feed. The Committee on the Environment also presented a circular economy scheme that depicted such an idyllic that fur animals grew and were renewed and that everything was in balance in the environment. The ethical side did not come up at all as a topic. However, the environmental impact of fur farming is that the concentration of animals in a small territory causes anomalies in the behaviour of other species, e.g. in Estonia, in Keila, there are gulls and small animals gathering, which also disturbs people. Parking of leather in Estonia has been completed because strict environmental requirements have not been met, and parking creates a heavy burden on the environment. Karjaküla Parking Workshop Eurotann ceased its activities due to the tightening of environmental requirements. The skins are now going to Finland in frozen form, where environmental requirements can be met. There's been a history of formaldehyde. Indeed, in the European Union, this substance used to preserve bodies is banned in the fur industry, but there are still very many leathers produced in China where formaldehyde is used. So this information can be interesting. In the European Union, chemicals with these sales names are used: Novaltan, Supralan, Atesan. I've seen these materials. These chemicals contain heavy metals, chromium, aluminum and a number of carcinogenic substances and require very strict waste management. At the same time, it has been said that if waste management can be done at the appropriate level, there will be no environmental impact. If this is not the case, these substances will also disinfect the aquatic environment where they may enter, etc. So this environmental argument for the fur industry isn't bad. In addition, it is very cynical to talk about live animals as a new natural resource, as if they were plants that produce new shoots each spring, or mushrooms that emerge from the threads over and over again when the harvest is harvested. Also, the World Bank considers the fur industry to be one of the most environmentally friendly agricultural sectors. It's very energy-intensive. We cannot talk about the fur industry as a green and environmentally friendly industry. Of course, the context is that the whole textile industry is anti-environmental, the whole fashion industry is anti-environmental. So let's just say that there are arguments in favour and against. You can also continue to talk about this subject in a circle of questions. I will take a mid-term review here and will be ready to answer the questions. 18 members of the Riigikogu are still convinced that this industry that remains in the past should find its end in Estonia as well. We should not be the last wagon of this train that has already left in all European countries. We want to be a progressive, modern country. I propose banning fur farms in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U50	Thank you very much for the waitress. Peeter Ernits opens the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U51	Good manager! Good waitress, it's a pleasure to see you pedal on the old theme again. You said, "I quote, it's ridiculous and medieval, and this ridiculous time is over." My question is, will you make an assessment of your party's interior minister, Katri Raig, who was proudly wearing a fur coat in front of Toompea Castle at this memorable meeting? And how do you feel about not being one of your strongest and most qualified livestock farmers, Jaanus Marandit?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U52	This bill does not prohibit the wear of fur or the sale of fur. Although I was saying here that in trend towns such as San Francisco, where all lifestyle trends reach Europe sooner or later, fur is already banned and people simply stop wearing coats. The position of animal guards on coats is currently very ecological to carry the existing coats to the end. If we go to a recycling center or a flea market, we'll see that there are actually coats out of lockers for sale, they'll be carried to the end until they finally fall apart. The position of the animal guards that I represent here is that if a person has a coat and if he feels good about it, he can wear it, he can carry it to the end. So, as part of this draft, I will not make any accusations to the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U53	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U54	Thank you. Thank you for this very good presentation, which showed very nicely the problems of bear breeding, but I would just like to clarify. Does this bill only deal with farms designed to raise animals only for fur? Does this draft not deal, for example, with the use of sheep and pig skins resulting from other processes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U55	Thank you for that question. This draft concerns only livestock farming for fur purposes or mainly for fur purposes. This does not even concern rabbits, which are also grown in Estonia for the purpose of obtaining meat. The current position of animalists is that when meat products are used to produce footwear and clothing, it is ecological, but fur is a luxury industry. This is no longer an industry that produces something that people absolutely need for life. We do need food inevitably, though. This draft does not concern the provision of veganisation or the prohibition of the use of hides and skins if they are a residue from another industry, a residue from the meat industry: cows' skins, pig skins, goats' skins, rabbit skins.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U56	Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U57	Good waitress! Fur comes mainly from farms, but they also come from hunting. Do hunters have any preferences or thoughts about the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U58	Thank you, Thomas, for this question. Hunters have also been in favour of this bill here in the Riigikogu, as it would give the right price again to those furs that are obtained by hunting. Unfortunately, the number of foxes and raccoons must be regulated in Estonia, but hunters are not very motivated because they pay nothing on the market. When fur farms are shut down, the value of the skins obtained by hunting increases. Unfortunately, we need to hunt because when hunting raccoons and foxes, we protect birds nesting on land or on the ground, for example, who need to be protected in Estonia. So in that sense, hunters have been in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U59	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U60	Thank you. In my opinion, luxury and wildlife are in a way both at the top of values. Luxury is very often a symbol of worthlessness, and nature certainly is one of the greatest values I can imagine, if not the greatest. Nevertheless, I can no longer vote in favour of this bill. There are some contradictions in this, as we have already been quite extreme with our ban policy. But I was ready to vote for it, but the animal guards took it away. Does an animal defender have to be an evil person? Does he have to attack, does he have to humiliate? He's gonna do it, by the way, to me tonight. Is it inevitable?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U61	My contact with animalists has been such that I can say that in Estonia animalists are extremely malbed and nice people. When I move among animalists, I feel like they're friendly and warm people, they have a good aura. In my opinion, they are even modest in Estonia. We have not had any animal-release activities on farms, for example, in Finland. We haven't had a coat spray on the street with any spray paint like the world's ever had. We have animal guards that don't lock themselves in big cages anywhere in the Town Hall Square, or perform as fur animals there. The methods used by Estonian animalists have been extremely soft. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, yeah, I'm a little familiar with the activities of Finnish animalists, which may have caused a lot of damage to nature. If you let a farm full of fish or foxes into the wild, they will die and destroy many other species for their food. That's not the solution. I think, Jurgen, think again! I think that animalists have made their demands in a very delicate and very soft manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U62	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Barbie! I almost wanted to vote in favour of this bill, too, but I was pissed off by the horrible wave of spam that was organized, I don't know if it was you or the animal guards. It was not dignified, and that is why I am voting against this draft. But I have a question here. How are the socialists? Is there such a touching consensus among you? Yesterday our mutual friend Kalle Muuli hung up a picture of Katri Raigi, the leading minister of social democracy and the interior, in a very beautiful coat. His Facebook page asked if it was an artificial skin or maybe cat skin or God knows what he is. I don't know. I'm not even looking for that answer, I'm just looking for an answer to whether the Social Democrats are really sincere with this bill for animal protection that you're on the remote, or is it your solo?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U64	Thank you. I think you just came into the hall. Katri Raik was here a while ago. This bill has nothing to do with wearing existing coats. Our animalists also believe that it is more ecological to wear the existing coats. We are living in such a cultural change that we still have the furs from the past, people carry them to the end, they can be bought from recycling centres and Commission shops. There is no obligation on the part of the Socialists to vote in any way on this draft. Katri Raik is not a member of Parliament either. So I haven't even talked to him about it, because wearing coats doesn't even concern the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U65	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U66	Thank you. Estonia is climatically extremely suitable for the production of fur animals. It is quite clear that if it is banned here, it will not disappear, it will simply move to Russia, China and elsewhere. So, in fact, this draft is precisely in the interests of the Russian and Russian economies. You were talking about polls here saying more than 60% of people are against them. Indeed, if the word 'defeat' is included in the question, then of course all people are opposed. According to a market survey, 69% of people support the continuation of fur farming if all standards are met. But how do you look into the eyes of those hundreds of people who lose their jobs, not only are they bear farmers, but also workers in the transport sector and wherever, tailors, fashion designers, and all their families if you want to take their livelihood away from them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U67	Thank you for your question. Estonia is climatically, yes, at the same latitude as Russia, but, for example, chinchillas are southern animals and they are roomy here, they cannot be allowed to go outside at all in Estonia. This climatic argument is still very narrow. Karjaküla farm now employs about 40 people, there are no hundreds of people. For example, let's look around Tallinn at how much we have lost our fur sales, and there are not many fur workshops anymore. In this sense, it is one way or another a declining activity. The draft also provides for a transitional period of five years, which itself moves in the same wind as the market. It was about China. Even in China there are so-called fur-free fashion artists, fur free, it is in English, who show the trend. Consider, for example, the development of China, what they do in their technology. It is only a matter of time before this industry is shrinking there too. We here in the Estonian Parliament are dealing with regulations for Estonia. Unfortunately, we cannot control what is happening in Russia. At the same time, I think that Russia, having always mimicked the west in the fashion world, is going to take the same step. Such large brands, Chanel among those popular in Russia, no longer use fur, many famous fashion artists do not use fur. So I believe that, when it comes to Russia, the trend is moving towards the replacement of fur with modern materials.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U68	Oudekki Loone, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U69	Thank you again for these thorough answers. Perhaps you will specify a little bit of the amazing sense that came out of this hall through the mouth of reform parties, that no law can be passed because there are many people who support this law and also express their senses. How do you comment on what is a reasonable way to intervene in a democratic process even in inter-election times? Personally, I would have been much happier if I had gotten more of those letters. What is your sense of how citizens should show their minds about a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U70	Thank you. Indeed, the animal welfare movement has more than 15 years of history in Estonia to ban fur farms. These people have influenced the public for years. They organise very professional campaigns, street campaigns, resignations, marches, they have good relations with the media. Their communication with their elected representatives is undoubtedly their right as citizens. In my opinion, the problem may be that very many other interest groups are not so good at communicating. This method is a completely democratic way of communicating with representatives of the people. It's a shame if ethical choices depend on remote circumstances such as the e-mail feed in the mailbox. It seems to me that this is a profoundly ethical question about which a person is either indifferent or sensitive. If the vote against banning fur farms is caused by the fact that too much fur industry has come to ban us, I think it is... It can't be like a windshield. The ambassador could have a stronger conviction on ethical issues when it comes to animal and nature friends.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U71	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U72	Thank you. First of all, I have a suggestion to those colleagues who are complaining that there are too many letters in their mailbox. I am the initiator of the draft, and the initiators of the draft have not received any spam, nor have there been any too much correspondence with us. You have to join the initiators of the bill and this spam will disappear. I think this is a very good and necessary draft. I very much agree with what you said earlier that it is largely a question of ethics whether raising animals in cages with the aim of finally skinning them to satisfy someone's vanity is something we should develop in Estonia or not. Of course, it must be taken into account that we now have companies involved in this, and that they must be given a transitional period. People have tried to ridicule our initiative somehow and said, among other things, that now you want all people to wear clothes made of oil. I'm asking you to answer that! It is such a generalisation, in any case it is not the only alternative, whether it is made of oil or fur. How do you comment on that statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U73	Thank you for being part of the bill. I also know that once when you were Minister of the Environment, there was a working group on mink farms at your facility. Looking at the history of banning bear farms, it is clear that this issue has not now suddenly arisen. There is no doubt that the textile industry and the fashion industry are burdensome for the environment. Oil today produces a lot of products, including the arts we wear. The industry is anti-environmental. There is a need for waste management which would cause as little damage as possible to the environment. However, as I mentioned earlier, the fur industry is not simply the use of a new natural resource, but it is a very large environmental footprint, as the World Bank measurements have shown, from energy production to heavy metals. The environmental impact is also here in the sense that it is a very high concentration of animals. There have been comparative analyses, and I've met some of them. The results of the measurements show environmental signs of different sizes. The environmental impact of the fur industry has also been seen to be many times greater than the environmental footprint of textile products made from oil. The data is different. I think the question is that all industry and technology are still moving towards a minimum environmental footprint. It's been said here, I don't know, the release of artificial fibres into the water and its impact on the natural environment. Here, too, such, let us say, the development that attempts are being made to avoid the separation of these fibres during washing. This is a very interesting and large chapter, but within the framework of this draft it is certainly worth remembering that fur farming is an industry with a high environmental footprint.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U74	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U75	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have one question: why are you spreading false information to representatives of the people in this Chamber, as the Estonian Hunters' Society would be in favour of you? I have more detailed information: the Estonian Hunters' Society supports and supports fur farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U76	Thank you. I have not argued that, as the Estonian Hunters' Society would in any way support this bill, but the hunters with whom I have spoken in this Chamber have had the argument that the fox hunt and the raccoon hunt must be given some value again, because the abundance of these species must be regulated in Estonian nature. Obviously, there should be bigger negotiations with the hunters' company. This bill does not have the approval of the Hunters' Association, so to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U77	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Of course, the subject is emotional and as many as there are people, so many different opinions. We in this Chamber make decisions, however, not so much in terms of emotion, but in terms of analysis. Now, if we ban fur farms, how much could it cost the country? After all, we assume that the owners of fur farms are going to be subject to some requirements and so on. Has there been any such analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U79	Thank you. That is an important question. In the Committee on the Environment, when this draft was discussed, it was also an issue. There we had representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment. If this bill were to be processed further, ministries would need to have carried out one of the types of small analyses that would cost all this reorganisation. But since it is basically one big farm, the Baltic Bearskin farm, where the number of workers is around 40 and the number of animals is constantly decreasing, this one farm, I think, can be reorganized relatively reasonably during this five-year period. But I certainly see that the state should be here helping these entrepreneurs get out of this business as painlessly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U80	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U81	Thank you. I get the impression from these answers and some questions that we are discussing the border agreement further. The waitress calls it all up, shows that she's the only Estonian or the only animal lover, and doesn't really want any support for the bill. It's not just a question of animal love. It is also a question of whether Parliament is thinking with its own head whether it is looking at the consequences of this draft more widely than only the consequences that affect animals and whether it can decide independently. So do you really want support, or do you continue in the same tone and say that you can actually do worse than I have been treated in social media, that everything is actually very well that there are more evil methods? Or do you really want to get votes on this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U82	I think I would, of course, like to support this draft. I honestly don't even know if I've offended anyone with my answers. I'm sure I've been trying to answer the questions. As it turned out in relation to the previous question, a constructive approach is needed; the Ministry of Rural Affairs should make calculations of what is meant by banning fur farming in Estonia. Since this is a micro-industry, the disappearance of this industry is probably not linked to any huge change in the Estonian agricultural sector. I'm trying to answer as rationally as possible. I have dealt with this question long enough, and I have tried to control emotions. In other countries, this process has been carried out in the same way over long years. There are a lot of pros and cons here. However, the end result is that there are important restrictions in many countries, and I do not see the reason why Estonia should be the last wagon on this train.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U83	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U84	Thank you. Good waitress! The history of the world is full of cases of attempts to make major changes that affect people, whether they are of a different skin color or whether they are women. It's fur animals now. Every time there's a big change plan, you get emotions. I don't think that's bad. When I've worked in this house for years, I've just considered it important that, besides the rational side, there are emotions that are very important. Everything that's inspired must, in my opinion, create emotion. I've never been influenced by e-mail calls or by anyone's badger, I've always tried to weigh and take into account the plus and minus arguments, and based on that, I've made my decision. The fact is also that today's topic is one of those with which we are trying to achieve a certain change of direction in the world. Do you agree that this topic is on the table because of the greater change in the world, not just to ban one small fur farm in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U85	Thank you. Definitely. We look at consumption in today's world: we make a lot of choices for ethical reasons. We will see how our food has been produced, where it has been grown, who has raised it, where our clothes have been made, who has made them, under what conditions they have been born. Today, we are also increasingly talking about responsible entrepreneurship. Very many companies have drawn up not only economic indicators but also a dimension of social responsibility in their activities. This trend has also come to Estonia. We are seeing at least those representatives of the world's businesses that monitor the requirements of socially responsible entrepreneurship. So we're actually jogging after one trend, we're trying to go along with the change that's already taking place in many countries. No doubt, changes are painful everywhere, changes force us to rethink our ways of thinking, to come out of a comfort zone. So I fully understand the opposition that certain stakeholders in particular have. It is undoubtedly acceptable to protect our interests. In the Committee on the Environment, we have met bear farmers and industrialists. They have their own interests. I see, above all, that there are stakeholders' positions here that need to be taken into account and that we need to see what the most painful solutions are. But when we look at the general atmosphere, the general lifestyle choices, the choices that work in the world of consumption and production, we move towards an increasingly ecological and ethical lifestyle that takes up land in Estonia as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U86	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, To comment on this: I wouldn't advise you to go anywhere just because most of you are going there. History has shown that very often masses move in the wrong direction. Now a question that is very fundamental to me. I thought your answers were that you wouldn't agitize everyone to become a vegetarian, we'd eat meat. Point two, you're not against hunting. Point three, your proposal is largely based on the fact that there are very few farms in Estonia. Let's say there's a hundred times as much, 400 or 500. Would you take the same step and take the same initiative in the same form if not 40, but 4,000 people worked in them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U88	Thank you. That was a good question. Indeed, this draft does not provide for veganism, does not prohibit hunting, does not prohibit wearing coats. However, leading fur producing countries such as the Netherlands have adopted restrictions on fur farming. Looking at the processes that have taken place in this industry in other countries, we can see that in countries where thousands of people work in the fur industry, these restrictions have also been adopted through harsher environmental requirements and animal housing conditions. So I don't know. This would be a different situation if the fur industry were, say, the main agricultural branch of Estonia, if we were an island state and only farmed fur animals. Perhaps then it would be a completely different situation, but in this situation, where it is a micro-agricultural sector, which in any case shows a tendency to shrink, this process is painless.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U89	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U90	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In this context, I am always concerned with pet culture in Estonia as a whole. Inevitably, I think in this context when we talk about fur animals, our pets, who find their way to shelters and are executed on a massive scale. We compare the same categories: the pet does not have to be kept for food or for skinning his skin, but is actually considered for emotion. People often take a pet for their emotions. Then I always get there if Estonian society is still ready to ban if it does not dare to look at itself in the mirror. But here's my question for you. You mentioned several times that studies and analyses should be carried out so that, if this draft were to remain in the process, it should be examined and analysed. One aspect probably concerns the time when this amendment would be introduced. It's five years, last time it was ten years. What are these studies that should be done further?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U91	Thank you. In the first half of the question, I say that pet farming and pet keeping are a separate issue and I think that this is problematic in Estonia. It is known that breeding farms operating under very cruel conditions do not meet any requirements for good animal treatment. However, this draft does not concern this problem, which should certainly also be addressed, as well as the trade in pet animals and its ethical aspects. In the Committee on the Environment, there was talk with representatives of ministries that precise calculations should be made as to what this five-year transitional period means for specific operators. The leading company is Balti Fur and then there are small producers who have family farms with perhaps even less than 100 animals. It is likely that everyone needs to be advised of a specific solution, since these farms are indeed very small. We're talking about a large and dozen small farms that may be dying naturally in five years, and that's not out of the question. But here, I'm sure you should see exactly what that means for the people who are working there right now. Let's just say that since this economic side is in recession anyway, maybe the easiest thing to do is let them go the path of market conditions that we are seeing right now. But the ethical aspect and the international image of Estonia might require that we still make the decision to ban farms before they go this way of natural disappearance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U92	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I myself am among the drafters, so I say that there is no irony in my next question, but I just have to ask. You said yourself that in other parts of the world, animal protection is much more radical or radicalizing. Are we not going to open Pandora's box with this bill and one day we will be in a position to discuss the closure of farms for other farm animals?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U94	Thank you. The animal welfare movement in the world will certainly be strengthened, because animal housing conditions and human behaviour towards animals are such an issue that, perhaps in the last few decades, has also become one of the areas of ethics, which is the question of how man treats animals. Man has always used animals, it has been necessary to survive. Food production and animal farms are also one of the major areas of animal protection, all intensive farming as a whole. Certainly, in the coming years, other farm animals will also be discussed. These requirements actually come from the European Union as well, that is well known. In this sense, it is not Pandora's box, it is a certain development of life, it is increasingly thinking about environmental issues. When we are talking about intensive farming here, this is a huge burden on the environment. Vegans' big argument is that meat production is an extremely heavy burden on the environment. How to cope with this burden is one aspect of the question. Of course, the position of animalists is that intensive farming needs to be interfered with anyway. But Pandora's box isn't in that sense that it doesn't come as secret, it comes through the treaties that we have voluntarily joined. The space of value that we have entered, from the European Union, is indeed coming up with restrictions on long-distance transport of animals and on various issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U95	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U96	Thank you! Good waitress! You repeatedly referred to fur production as a micro-farm, which is, of course, correct. On the other hand, it is a branch that does not receive subsidies from the state, the European Union or anywhere. That is why it has certainly remained a little micro in comparison to the cultivation of other farm animals or also agricultural products, but it also provides export production, most furs go for export. Obviously this is a painful question, but if I ask a question, should we not discuss today, instead of this draft, how to support the fur sector, because our climate is ideal for such production, and, as you said, there are different interest groups, some are entrepreneurs, others are drafters, then what does your lobby think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U97	Thank you. As for the climate, for example, chinchilla cultivation is not suitable for Estonia at all. They're so indoor animals, if you let them out, they're gonna die. So this climate argument may only apply to a fox or somebody who grows a better coat in the cold. Obviously, support for this industry in the European Union has not been considered justified on ethical grounds. It is known that Finland, which has wished to continue to grow raccoon dogs for example, must apply for special conditions from the European Union. We have chosen this value area by joining the European Union. Support for different agricultural sectors varies. I do not see the pressure of people today to recommend subsidies in order to ensure that the growth of fur animals in Estonia starts to flourish. There doesn't seem to be that kind of pressure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U98	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U99	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You spoke repeatedly of a decreasing trend and a decreasing trend. I didn't exactly understand what this declining trend was, whether it was the rearing of fur animals or the fighting of fur farms. However, it is a very different effect here that bear breeders should contribute to popularising themselves, and a call for fighters who are soft animals to start to liquidate businesses' assets. You're not worried that you think these animal friends are too soft, do you think they're not being radical? Young people don't get this the wrong way, do they? Will you also take political responsibility if we have fur fighters attack business property?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U100	Thank you. So far, my contacts with our animal guards have been such that I think they are extremely rational. Their arguments are completely rational. I think it has been extremely emotional for the bear farmers I have come across, and it has been relatively impossible to talk to them. I tried to talk to a chinchilla farmer a little while after he said something about me on the radio. I wanted to talk to him to find out what he was thinking, but he was extremely angry and went away with the doors popping. I think that right now our animalguards, being quite tempered, quite experienced and quite educated people, are certainly not calling on anyone to radicalize. I do not think this trend can be seen in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U101	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U102	Thank you! Apparently, the waitress already knows that my firm principle is: if one thing or one link is banned in one chain, namely production and consumption, and buying-sale-brokering is allowed, I think it is hypocritical. My opinion is that we should not do this, even if it is because our businesses have choices. Perhaps some companies have no choice but to have this chinchilla farm on their small property. But is it fair that in business we restrict choices, but for those who do not want to wear fur, who do not like it or who come from some other ethical aspect, there is a choice? They don't have to wear it, they don't have to buy it, they can promote it so that fur is less and less worn. At the same time, we are taking the opportunity of businesses to engage in some activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U103	Thank you. Indeed, this bill has nothing to do with the sale and wearing of fur, it is in this sense the consumer's choice, everyone's choice. When we talk about entrepreneurship, here in many areas of life we have limitations. If we had a free market, maybe we could grow weed or whatever. We have very many areas of life regulated and must not do certain things. I think that there must be as few restrictions as possible in business, but ethical restrictions are certainly among those that should apply. There are also health-related restrictions and environmental restrictions. In my opinion, entrepreneurship is full of restrictions. Unfortunately, we're not free to do anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U104	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U105	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You ended up with what it was, there's a lot of restrictions. As politicians, we are doing these restrictions in order to ensure that animals have decent animal conditions. It would actually be very violent to demand decent conditions for animals. Businesses bring tax revenues, and banners want to shut everything down immediately. We have made these restrictions. Is there some kind of surveillance? Do you have any analysis that will allow you to say that with any new restrictions, the situation has gotten much worse? On what basis do you consider that the current supervision has not been effective or effective? What and who is responsible for the failure of supervision, and should we improve supervision rather than say that enough is enough? It's like telling a kid three times, but on the fifth time, you're sending him to an orphanage because you just can't grow up anymore. Has our supervision been effective and responsible if it is not effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U106	First of all, the first part of the question. This draft certainly does not only deal with animal welfare issues, but perhaps even above all with the welfare issues of those affected by animal suffering. These people are not few, as we can see, when we look at petitions that people have signed. Was this question about restrictions on our fur farm? Estonian fur farms are certainly working hard to meet all environmental requirements. The Karjaküla bear farm where we went is constantly being inspected at European level, and health checks are constantly being carried out there. I believe that Estonian entrepreneurs must make a great deal of effort to meet all the standards that are prescribed for this industry. As I tried to stress in my speech, in very many countries environmental norms or animal husbandry conditions have become such that this industry is simply going to disappear. Ideally, fur animals could live there like they did in an animal park. They would live there until the end of their animal life, and they'd just be caught at a good time when there's a need for fur. The skins of animals reared under such conditions would undoubtedly be so expensive that it would not be economically effective. I know that cages have been built bigger and so on in bear farms, but no animal expert, Alexei Turovski or Tiit Maran, thinks that by building cages a little bigger, it would be possible to provide animals with any kind of species-specific life in the cages. In itself, it is a short and painful life; they live less than a year: in spring, in November or December, the skin will be skinned. This life is short, it's glowing, and that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U107	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm listening, and I'm not even surprised. This degree of radicalisation of the social democrats is, frankly, already very awful. But I'll remind you and ask you again. On the first question, I asked why your esteemed colleague, Jaanus Marrand, the only authority among those who know livestock farming, did not sign the draft. Answer that question, please! Eiki Nestor is a good person, and so is Jevgeni Ossinovski, but unfortunately they are not authority in animal matters. Why didn't Jaanus Marrandi put his hand down there?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U108	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U109	Mr Marandi must probably answer this question himself, but I believe that behind every politician there are different interest groups in this Parliament. We often base our decisions on those who belong to our interest groups. The Socialists do not have a political group's decision on this issue, it is left as if free, you can choose a party on this issue. I believe that Jaanus Marrandi may be clarifying the answer himself. He's not in the hall, and right now I don't know how to answer that question. But this isn't just about animal husbandry. I believe, once a good colleague from the press, that I tried to make it clear that this industry has more than animal husbandry content. Here are a number of dimensions that can't be measured with real, say, kilos, grams, and animals. Here's the dimension that a person needs for life and doesn't have.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U110	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U111	You scared us of the catastrophic consequences of tanning our skin and claimed that the chemicals used were highly toxic and contaminating nature. In fact, no dangerous chemical substances are used in the processing of fur in the European Union. It is regulated by the REACH Regulation, which has been adopted to protect human health and the environment from the potential risks associated with chemicals and, at the same time, to increase the competitiveness of the chemical industry. Could you give us concrete examples of the recent pollution of the skin in our region?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U112	That's a very precise question, good Henn! Indeed, chemicals used in the fur industry are well regulated in the European Union. In my speech, I also indicated that formaldehyde, for example, is forbidden. But it does contain this substance, let's say, this fur product, which is often used in our clothes, because it is produced cheaply somewhere outside the European Union. I have no examples of environmental pollution. The list of substances that are used for different brands (Novaltan, Supralan, Atesan) I have provided: chromium, aluminium, various carcinogens. If all environmental requirements are met, their environmental impact is likely to be minimal, if all these restrictions are complied with carefully. For example, Eurotann, a parking garage in Estonia, was closed to the effect that these requirements could not be met. Skins are now going to Finland, where this whole area is definitely under the radar of environmentalists, as this is a potentially environmentally polluting area.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U113	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U114	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It's the kind of bill that doesn't run the water bay between the parties. I hurriedly looked, I think the initiators are from the political groups of the Riigikogu. These borders run somewhere perpendicular, inside the political parties. But I have listened to today's questions and this debate here. In fact, I have not heard any very serious objection as to why this draft should not be supported, sent to second reading and subsequently adopted as a law. Yes, it has been said that there must be a transitional period. But this transition period is still in the bill. If this is a condition, then it is possible that there is still a need to discuss exactly how long it should be. In the process of dealing with the bill, have you really heard some very compelling counter argument as to why this bill should not go further or should not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U115	Thank you. Indeed, I have not heard any objection against this bill. The issue of labour force and overtime is certainly five years long, and this is such a difficult area that people do not last very long in this area. In economic terms, this is a declining area. Ethically, the question has already been explained ten times. In many neighbouring countries, the example of other countries has similar movements and regulations. Yeah, I really haven't heard any basically disproving arguments about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U116	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In order not to make the question of a fellow official sound false, I will ask you a new question. This draft has been initiated by members of the Riigikogu belonging to very different political parties. Certainly not only social democrats are among them; there are people from both the Centre Party and the Reform Party. Is this the case, or is it the Social Democrat bill that we could be proud of?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U118	Thank you. This draft has indeed been initiated by people from different political parties, belonging to the Social Democratic Party, the Reform Party and also to the Centre Party. Speaking to Members, I have also heard from the individual members of another party that it is possible that they are in favour of this draft in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U119	Thank you, dear waitress Barbi Pilvre. No further questions for you. One request has been received by the Governing Board. The Social Democratic Party Group asks for the session of the Riigikogu to be extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Let's get ready for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the request of the SDE Group to extend the session of the Riigikogu until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of extending the sitting, no one is against, with 4 abstentions. The hearing is adjourned. Next, please speak to Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U120	Dear Vice-President Kalle Laane! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I am pleased to see that very many of the same and similar questions were asked in this Chamber, which was discussed by the Committee on the Environment, but nevertheless I will take a brief look at what has taken place in the Committee on the Environment at the readings of the draft law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and the Nature Conservation Act 755. There have been two sittings in the Committee on the Environment: the first was an exit session and the second was held in the premises of the Committee on the Environment in the Riigikogu. As Barbi Pilvre repeatedly emphasised on behalf of the initiators (the initiators are 18 of the various political parties represented in this Chamber), the draft provides for the cessation of animal housing solely or mainly for fur production purposes, as well as their breeding and reproduction solely or mainly for fur production purposes. The application of that prohibition to keepers shall be provided for as from 1 June 2024. First of all, briefly what took place on 11 December 2018, when the Committee on the Environment had an exit session. This took place in Estonia's largest fur farm, AS Balti Karuskät. The members of the Commission had dozens and dozens of questions; I will give an oral overview of what has not been going through this panel today and what has not been discussed. A good colleague, Meelis Mälberg, immediately asked whether visitors were always allowed in the farm or whether there had been a secret project. Marge Tiidus, CEO of AS Balti Karuskõt, who received us, said that tours will be held in spring, when there are open-door days, where everyone is welcome, and at other times they want to know who will come and when. Since animals are irritated by loud noise and lightning imaging, and these materials are used in the media, the farm will always check who to shoot, who to not. A good colleague, Andres Metsoja, was interested in the market situation for fur. Mr Tiidus pointed out that, very briefly, in two words, this was very bad. The market is occupied by China, which does not have any requirements and conditions for the rearing of fur animals and this leads to lower prices. Europe has placed very high demands on the rearing of fur animals, while in Europe farms are constantly shutting down. Member of the Committee on the Environment Mälberg asked if Baltic Bearskin met all the requirements. Marge Tiidus confirmed that the company's activities comply with all established requirements. As an example, he pointed out that the farm was surrounded by a double garden, that the animal cages had been enlarged and that large investments had been made. The aim of the establishment is to get high quality skin and therefore try to create the best possible conditions for animals. In addition, Member of the Commission Rainer Vakra asked what is the environmental damage in Estonia when we talk about tanning. Marge Tiidus replied that no leather is parked in Estonia today, all hides are sold at auction and the new owner has them parked. Estonian leathers are mostly sold at a Finnish auction. In addition, I was interested in the question of whether furs are made specifically from Estonian furs or what is their result. Marge Tiidus claimed that the fur coats of any animal grown in the Baltic Bearskin are not made; they go purely for the production of beauty products, either tups, collars or scarves. Ultimately, there was such an educational question, where there is a border in Europe, where it is still reasonable to grow fur animals from the land. Marge Tiidus replied that climateically, there is a limit to the farming of fur animals in Poland and, from Poland's perspective, they are grown in the northernmost countries and in the coolest climate. However, the Commission's Barbi Pilvre added that Finnish fur farmers have taken their businesses to China because they also have cheap labour. For its part, Marge Tiidus added that companies are being moved to China also because conditions in Europe are becoming increasingly stringent. The next Commission meeting was on 15 January 2019, to which all parties were invited. I will read briefly for the sake of the record who was present. As usual, the Committee on the Environment seeks to involve the various parties and those who have spoken earlier on this issue. In addition to the representative of the initiators of the draft in the Riigikogu Barbi Pilvre, the NGO's animal wards organisation Loodus, representatives of the Invisible Animals, Estonian Bear Farmers Association, the Estonian Karusnahate Association and Balti Karuskud AS, the environmental manager of the Estonian Agricultural Chamber and, of course, the representatives of the two ministries affected, both the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment. The Commission meeting started in the same way as in this large Chamber. Barbi Pilvre presented the draft, the members of the Commission had similar questions, as well as here. For his part, Kadri Taperson of the NGO Loodus added that they have agreed to and supported the draft, as well as international organisations supporting it, an international petition on the same subject has been launched. There are different reasons for initiating the draft: ethics, environmental protection and impact on people. The representative of invisible animals, Kristina Mering, said that the main aim is to improve animal welfare, but animal welfare is not guaranteed in fur farms. He also said that the rearing of other animals for the purpose of obtaining meat and other products is not comparable to the rearing of fur animals; these are two separate subjects and must be kept separate at all times. Of course, Leander Pragi was also present, who represented the Estonian Bear Farmers' Breeding Association and stressed that the fur trend would rise and fall over time, it could never be predicted. The disappearance of the European mink is not the fault of bear farmers, as today's conditions do not include environmental pollution against wild animals. He also stressed that, when it comes to banning, what happens to workers and jobs is a regional problem. You shouldn't lose any jobs. The rural development plan states how much one job costs and the loss of jobs should be paid by the state. He also stressed that the cages were not kept as wild animals, but as specially bred cage animals. Kalle Palling, vice-president of the Committee on the Environment, put forward the idea and idea that if the state provides for the cessation of the rearing of fur animals, the most sensible way would be to buy out the farms from the owners and then close them down. As a second option, it proposed to develop measures to restructure production, i.e. if the production of fur were to stop, it would be possible to continue with some other production. There were also some short opinions. For example, Tarmo Kattago, a member of the Estonian Bear Association, stressed that a large number of banners, i.e. those countries that have banned the keeping of fur animals, have never raised fur animals because it requires an appropriate climate and the southern countries do not count here, except in Greece, where there is high production. In addition, he pointed out that some countries were not correct on the list in the explanatory memorandum, some countries had partially banned the housing of fur animals, i.e. by species, not entirely. The initiators of the draft act acknowledged that some of the inaccuracies in the explanatory memorandum would be appropriate to correct between the first and second readings. A good colleague, Meelis Mälberg, came up with an idea and asked the representatives of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment what would happen if Estonia were to follow the principle that those species that we do not naturally have should be banned. Taimo Aasma, of the Ministry of the Environment, replied that the cultivation of nutria and raccoon is banned in Europe and that preparation for the listing of new prohibited species is currently under discussion, for example. Data is currently being aggregated and discussions will soon be reached. If a mink is added to the list of prohibited animals, it may be grown only with special permission. In addition, I had the honour to ask whether there were any other species planned to be banned at European Union level. Merike Linnamägi, of the Ministry of the Environment, replied that about 20 new species would be put to the vote. If anyone wants to know what these 20 new species are, but they are not all fur animals, then it is safe to let officials or members of the Committee on the Environment know and we can e-mail this list. Of course, Vice-President Kalle Palling stressed that, as the debate on bans is constantly being raised, the sector is very uncertain about its future. Since the European Union is probably never going to ban cultivation, it should restructure the industry and find solutions to keep jobs in rural areas. It was also the Commission's view that in any event a reasonable tripartite compromise should be found (state, economic operators and animalists). The Government of the Republic did not take a position on the draft, it maintained its earlier position. I recall that a year and a half ago the Riigikogu also discussed this issue in this large hall. Taimo Aasma, on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment, concluded that they are only looking at environmental aspects and that there is no need for a ban at the moment on farms where requirements are met. In addition, he said that the situation in farms has improved throughout this discussion, investments have been made which also meet environmental requirements. In short, the last three opinions of the Members of the Commission. Terje Trei said, as he also said in his question today in the big Chamber, that he did not think that it should be prohibited to do what is allowed elsewhere, and also that the results of the study depend on how to ask. Kalle Palling said he did not support the rearing of fur animals, but if no solution is offered, he will not be in favour of closing farms either, a long plan is needed. The position of the chairman of the committee, Rainer Vakra, was also clear: in any case, it can be seen that despite today's vote in this large Chamber, this topic is on the agenda and matters to many people in Estonia. It is an ethical issue. As a result, this is also said by one of the questioners here, it would be the task of the Ministry of Rural Affairs to carry out specific calculations, taking into account both the turnover and the profits costing the restructuring of these companies, whether first through state buy-out or in some other form. Perhaps it should not simply be said that we have no and no reason to analyse these numbers. This was, in the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, a clear task. We will see that these issues will continue to be raised in the future. A concrete plan is needed that if the members of the Riigikogu support this proposal, what will it cost. This agreement was also made in the Committee on the Environment that, if the large hall of the Riigikogu is to support this draft, it is certainly necessary to find this specific mechanism between the first and second readings how the damage suffered by companies will be compensated. The Commission's position was that it certainly must not go overboard. The drafters were recognised that the draft also provided for a transitional period of five years. Specific decisions were made on this subject: Mr Rainer Vakra (consensually), Member of the Commission, was appointed as rapporteur, and a consensus was also proposed to send the draft to the large hall today. If a year and a half ago the draft was a so-called 1 committee member, this time there were 2 members in favour, but the Commission proposed to reject the draft at first reading, in favour of Mr Korb, Mr Mälberg, Mr Palo, Ms Trei and the vice-president of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Palling and Mr Vakra, were against it. Now it's time for questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U121	Mr Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, there is at least one question for you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U122	Thank you for your good work in the Commission and also for a thorough presentation of the Commission's views. I have a question. How do you, as an environmental person, view this bill and this limitation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U123	Thank you. I also expressed my position in the vote, and I take the same view as I was one and a half years ago. I must say that these discussions have confirmed my position, not the other way around. First of all, I think it was a very important sign that all fur produced in Estonia is made exclusively to satisfy vanity. Not all kinds of examples of furs and other things are really bad. Point two is that, in my opinion, the ethics and value space of the 21st century is not appropriate if animals are kept and slaughtered just to skin their skin. I have good friends who will always tell me at this point, even at a difficult time, whether it be the Director of Tallinn Zoo Maran or the well-known zoologist Aleksei Turovski. They always give a simple example: if anyone wants to know, under what artificial conditions a wild animal could live in such a way that it might feel more or less well, then you have to go to Tallinn Zoo and see how big the rooms and the conditions they have there, and then you should compare it with the little sixes of a bear farm. Then you'll know what we're talking about. My good vicar from Nõmme Ove Sander always says that what we do to animals we do to ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U124	Good Commissioner, there are no further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U125	Thank you, dear Kalle Laane. Have a nice day, too!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U126	I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Does Peeter Ernitsa have the mandate of the Estonian Conservative People's Party? As I understand it, it is. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. It's embarrassing to be here. I am here for the same reason for the second time, I was there the last time this bill came out, and it was able to die its natural death, and I am now, too, when extremely radical animalists, particularly in the shadow of social democrats, are attacking again. I say, whose pain is more painful, whose life is more precious? Everyone's pain is the same, everyone's life is expensive. But Bill 755 states that the silver fox and some kind of life are more expensive and worth more than the life of the domestic, sheep, cattle, chicken, etc. and their pain is also more painful, some pain is more painful than the pain of the domestic. The drafters are talking about the poor living conditions of some and a silver fox. I recall that I have also worked in a zoo in my life and I am very familiar with the ideology and animal welfare of international zoos. Unfortunately, time doesn't allow us to talk about it. The drafters say how poor the living conditions of some and silver fox are, although standards have improved considerably since 1 January 2017, the size of the cages has increased. But let's see: 5,000 people's homes are extremely flammable, and according to the Rescue Board program, we can make 500 homes a year. More than 60,000 children live on, I'm talking about human children, not any or silver fox children, under inadequate conditions. They get hot food once a day when they get it at school. In student homes, it is common to note that a lot is eaten on Monday morning and Friday night, i.e. when you come from home or go home, where there are not many, tens of thousands of children who have basic living conditions. Let me remind you that a mink and a silver fox can eat properly every day, even though they do not eat hot food, because it is not the custom of predators to eat warm food. Consequently, the drafters are currently selectively fighting for some farm animals, minks, silver foxes and others, rather than dealing with tens of thousands of people living in inadequate conditions. It's an election campaign. I see it every day, you see it. You know very well that the drafters know that what they came up with is actually double standards, that's the fake they came up with. Above all, you should think about people, not some farm animals, some silver fox, and some others. It's very fake! I spoke to Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm a moment ago. I called him and asked him, Tarmo, how did the Ministry of Agriculture look at it? By the way, the list of those who oppose this bill is very long. Can I have a few more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U128	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U129	Barbi Pilvre spoke about how the Estonian Hunters' Society is in favour. No, it's not. Wrong! I asked the Minister for Rural Affairs how he and his ministry looked at it. He told me they'd be against it, of course. He also told me that the Finnish government would rather develop the breeding of fur animals. But we want to water this industry. As ambassadors, we actually have to rely on common sense, considering pros and cons, but not on emotion or the interests of radical animalists, who have actually come up populistly with this bill. The Estonian Conservative People's Party cannot agree to this. I know that I, and all of us who vote against it, will be nailed back to the stake of shame: animal torments and enemies of some kind! I've been dealing with animals my whole life, and I'm still working on animals. But this bill, I'm telling you, is extremely Phariseeic and fake. When you look at it, nearly 70% of the population, including in Tartu and Jõgeva, are polled at my back and behind us. This percentage is really the lowest in Tallinn, but the majority in Tallinn are also opposed to this draft. I'm not gonna talk about the spam attack that I was part of. This was an aggressive, modest attack and the most unprecedented attack in my Riigikogu's career. So they're extreme radicals, whether they're related to sexiology or whether they're animal rights, it doesn't matter. In short, this bill should be sent to the trash. I'm gonna say it with all my knowledge. It has absolutely nothing to do with me liking the pain of animals like someone's pain is more painful and I'm some kind of brute. Ask also Jaanus Marrandi, who is the only person in this hall who really knows the area of farming. His signature on this bill doesn't exist. So thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U130	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, the Riigikogu is debating the ban on fur farms in Estonia, which shows that the public interest in banning fur farms is strong and growing. Since the beginning of time, animals have lived alongside humans, providing us with a wide range of resources and helping science to develop. Today we have reached a point where fur is no longer necessary for the production of clothing and more favourable, efficient and environmentally friendly alternatives are widely available. Bearskin has become a luxury item worn by few to warm up, and fur production is oriented towards the production of details: hats, jacket collars, key chains. As a result of this development, an increasing number of people believe that keeping animals in small cages for the sole purpose of producing fur is no longer a legitimate activity in our society. A total ban on fur farms has already been decided in 13 European countries. A study carried out by Kantar Emor in November showed that 69% of Estonians do not support the rearing of animals on fur farms for the sole purpose of obtaining fur. Moreover, the way forward in the public opinion of the Estonian population is illustrated very well by the fact that in the age group 15 to 35, 84% of respondents were not in favour of raising animals (according to the same study) solely for fur purposes. The same study also shows that the attitude towards fur farms is not dependent on a political outlook. Among the supporters of political parties currently forming part of the Riigikogu, 60% of the voters of the Central Party in Estonia are not in favour of bear farms, 61% of the voters of the Reform Party, 68% of the voters of the EKRE and 65% of the voters of the Social Democratic Party. Unfortunately, it was not possible to make a reliable assessment of the voters of the Fatherland and the Free Party in this study. About 200,000 fur animals are kept in cages in Estonia, most of them on the farm of AS Balti Bearskin. The Baltic Bearskin Farm, located in Karjaküla next to Keila, is one of the largest fur farms in the Baltics, which accounts for about 90% of all fur production in Estonia. Foxes and mints are grown in Karjaküla. Balti Karuskõt AS is owned by Finnish owners, as we have already heard here. According to PRIA, 17 Chinchilla farms operate in Estonia. As all leathers are exported to Finland or Denmark, there is no leather parking in Estonia, the closure of farms would not affect people working in other fur jobs. The fur industry is not doing very well in Estonia. The 2017 Annual Report shows that AS Balti Karuskõt suffered losses of almost 1.5 million euros, resulting in a significant reduction in the number of employees there too: 73 people worked there in 2015, only 46 in the summer of last year. Unfortunately, there is no adequate estimate of the full-time workforce involved in Chinchilla cultivation, but according to a survey by the University of Life Sciences, it was a total of 20 employees in 2014. Thus, banning fur farming would not lead to significant economic damage. It is a declining and unethical industry that should not be part of Estonia's modern business environment. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U132	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U133	I have seen with my own eyes the conditions in which animals must grow. After all, it is clear that animals chained to narrow cages are suffering and that these animals are only grown to get their hats, keychains, or collars. The closure of fur farms will mean an end to the suffering and suffering of animals, not immediately, but in a few years' time. One of the yardsticks of society is the attitude toward animals. So let us make a decision that is supported by almost 70% of the Estonian population. There is no doubt that this percentage will increase rapidly from year to year. The time of bear farms must be over. But now for Peter Ernits' explanation. You've been busy in this hall for four years, but you haven't noticed how much the bill that has become the law has been done for children and families with children, how much has been done for parents raising a child alone. As a result, the number of children growing in deep poverty has decreased three times over the last five years, which is very important and important. There is also the topic of informal care and other issues on the agenda. To tell you that we have forgotten about people, I think the Estonian people know that there isn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U134	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U135	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, above all, from our group. We discussed this and decided that although the majority of the group did not support this bill, we would leave the vote free. Three people who have signed the bill have the opportunity to vote as they see fit. Now a few things about the procedure we witnessed here. He found out some pretty interesting things. I'm sure I'll ask the Home Secretary if his coat really was bought from a second-hand recycling center, like one version of this. Speaking of this bill, I can tell you, I love animals. I love animals and my office hangs in this place where the President's portrait usually hangs, a big beautiful dog picture. That dog was smarter than some people I've known in my life, and he was smarter than at least one president. So this picture is hanging in the right place. Last year, I allocated a very large sum of my roofing money to repair most of the cat room. Now that I'm gonna stop by and see half a hundred cats who don't have to sit in the cold basement in moisture, I feel better. But I do not support this bill. And there are quite a few reasons. The first reason is that when a colleague asked me if there had been any such drafts before, I thought at first for a long time, recalled and then came to the conclusion that yes, there has been, only they have been from another area. For example, no one wants to deal with textbooks or teachers; no one wants to raise these teachers or write or issue textbooks. Let's just turn it off and that's it. And those poor minks. On the one hand, something can be done to improve their lives, on the other hand, it is possible to offer to kill them as a matter of urgency, and that is it. No human, no problem; no mink, no problem! You realize it doesn't change anything. Everyone who signed the bill will understand that the market is the market. If there is no mink farming in Estonia, this does not mean that it will disappear in Finland and Russia. It simply moves from Estonia to Estonia and that is it, the process continues there. There may be, yes, a very emotional moment: how, after all, we defend, we stand on defense, and see how the people support, 70%, you see how this percentage grows from 60 to 70! What's there to talk about? But did all those who have been questioned understand what we're talking about? What would be the result if the survey were conducted among people who have created even five jobs in their lives, not in Tallinn, not in Tartu, but in rural areas? It's called a micro-business, but try to replace it! Find a way to do it in a way that doesn't grab money from the state budget, keep it thick. So I think it's more of an emotional problem. This is a double standard problem, including what Mr Ernits was talking about, but also directly affecting animals across the country. We are dealing with national programmes, so that the state is responsible for ensuring that all domestic animals are fed during their lifetime, for normal living conditions, etc. We're on it! One more thing. I hear no one's making us vegetarian. Thank you. We don't mind hunting either. But when I asked Barb, what if these farms weren't four-five, but 400-500, he stayed in his mind. But what difference does it make? We cannot decide for each individual that he or she is in a collective society, that the whole collective is guilty, that everyone is convicted and punished. We want justice, we want justice in particular. Why do some farms have to suffer because these farms are only four or five across the country? You say yourself that if there were a hundred times as many, which is quite possible, then the attitude would be quite different. It's a logic error, it's also an ethical error. You can't do that! You can't treat farms the way your left foot wants them to be! You can't treat Russian schools the way your left foot wants! First of all, ask the experts. You have to refuse this principle, it's about the school or the mink farm. I would have gladly told you a few more things, but time is running out. The Centre Party Group does not support it, in most cases we do not support this bill. If you are disturbed by the animal situation, take measures to correct it. Just because you stop farming doesn't mean that animals, the same minks, don't die in our neighborhoods after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U136	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is certain that a different approach to this draft does not really run along the borders of political parties. Technologically, somebody can put together voices in one direction or another, but I believe that a normal person still has a dual view of this bill, sees more or less pros and cons here. This is also reflected in the attitude of our party: there are those who are firmly in favour of this draft, who are ready to vote on it, who are both emotional and rational, and there are those who are passionate about this draft, and that is understandable. There's no reason to point fingers at each other. The worst thing that's ever happened in this hall today is this extreme fight. There's been a presentation of himself as the only animal friend or calling the bill hypocritical and fake, and what it was all about, one man talked for eight minutes only about this. You can't do that. Personally, I have always fought against the wording that No. 1 is a human being, that man is the most important. I really despise that view. Man is not the king of nature; this attitude could remain in Soviet time, that nature can be taken away and that living creatures can do anything without regretting anything. This has really been my position, not only with regard to animals, but also with regard to plants. Personally, I think plants also have a soul, and they also need to be killed as little as possible. And vain luxury is something that I think is really in the top of worthlessness. There's nothing to do, that's right. I've had a life of incomprehension with fur, and at the same time, wildlife has been at the top of values. I have had an emotional attitude, and I admit that in that sense I was voting in favour of this bill. But I don't represent a party or a group in this. In our group, like others, there is a difference of opinion, which I think is normal for such a draft. It's about the border. We've never been a vegetarian for life. How many are there now? We are no one pure of sin, and we are not really here to initiate a bill that would rule out bad behavior with wildlife at all. We always consume more than nature suffers. It's fair to admit. Whether the border is exactly on the point of bear breeding, which we should ban, remains debatable. We recognise that it remains debatable how far we can actually go with the ban policy. We have taken rather steep decisions in the Riigikogu with the majority of the votes, which I think has been wrong from the beginning. In that sense, I would like to oppose this prohibition. There are many in our group who want to oppose prohibition (I speak here as on behalf of the group). It is also quite real that tens of thousands of people depend on livestock farming and animals are slaughtered, bred for slaughter, to eat them. So is eating something superhuman, eating another? No, it's not. So emotional eruptions in one direction or another are, I think, completely unnecessary here. Let us put this matter to a vote and see what the result will be. Oudekki, who has signed the bill, stigmatized my party. No, there are very passionate supporters of the bill in my party. I was voting for it myself. There's no point point in pointing out that you're the one... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U138	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U139	...because you have doubts. Indeed, it is also private property, entrepreneurship, people's jobs, and an honest confession that we have, after all, enjoyed the welfare of killing animals for a lifetime. You gotta look at it, too, okay? My personal wish, as I said, was to vote in favour of this bill. Now I am abstaining on the grounds that I have been personally insulted and have been presented on social media as an enemy of animals because I have explained that this is simply not the case with Parliament. It doesn't change my attitude towards animals, but it radically changed my attitude towards animalists. They did not understand the argument that the Riigikogu must feel as a decision-maker, not as a person under pressure, but as a decision-maker. Very vulgar, I think, are the arguments that were read out here and read out, that 68% or some other percentage of people are in favour. That depends, first of all, on asking a question. Secondly, I think that one of the main artes of politics is to be able to decide for itself even if public opinion is unanimous. We can vote against public opinion, which is perhaps the highest quality of a politician, which I appreciate when it is argued. Argued vote against public opinion is a very democratic choice. I respect those who have managed to do so in life, and I myself have repeatedly resisted public opinion and I am not ashamed of it. So, first of all, I would like to see such campaigns, insults and insults end in principle. Several laughed here when the Kremlin was called, but here is actually the aspect of how far we let modern society, media society go with this kind of protest, blackmail, public opinion, or lobby pressure. In fact, we know that the major protest movements have been manipulated. I am sure that the Estonian animal guards have not been manipulated, but I can tell you for sure that protest movements in Europe have been heavily manipulated. There are these yellow vests, and they've been caught getting people or direct money to undermine the system. So I didn't laugh at that moment. Not that this draft relates to the Kremlin's manipulations, but it is still linked to democratic values, the fact that we have the right to express our views on whether 'for', 'against', 'impartial' or not to vote. And I'm taking this opportunity. To protect democracy. There's nothing to laugh about, Evgeny, nothing. I'd rather despise it if you're so united here with a seemingly united view, but you're also defending farmers who do these things every day. So let the vote go. That is what I think all political groups should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-22_U140	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 755 at first reading. Let's go to the preparations for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting against the proposal for a commission from the members of the Riigikogu Hannes Hanso, Toomas Jürgenstein, Heljo Pikhof, Marianne Mikko, Barbi Pilvre, Heidy Purga, Hardi Volmer, Keit Pentus-Rosimitus, Inara Luigas, Oudekki Loone, Eiki Nestori, Madis Milling, Helmen Küti, Liina Kersna, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Yoko Alender, Jaanus Karilaidi and Heimar Leng's draft law amending the Law on animal protection and nature conservation at first reading 775. Please take a stand and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, 28 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 25 against and 1 abstention. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. The draft 755 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 1:21 p.m.
