ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! I am again pleased to welcome you to the first sitting of the working week to begin. We will begin the Monday session of the 9th working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I ask those who wish to hand over drafts and inquiries. I don't think that's what you want. In that case, let's move on to presence control. 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 18 are missing. I am voting on the approval of the 9th working week agenda of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U2	We will go to today's first item on the agenda, which is the Government of the Republic's overview of the stability subsidies granted by the European Stability Mechanism and the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the European Stability Mechanism. The rapporteur is Mr Helme, Minister of Finance. Before that, I'll introduce you to today's procedure. [[There's noise in the hall.]] Thank you for letting me talk! First, the presentation by the Minister of Finance is up to 20 minutes, then each member of the Riigikogu can ask the rapporteur one oral question and there is one minute to ask the question. Then we will open the negotiations and get the floor from the political groups, 5 + 3 minutes. If the Minister has a wish, he can still make a small speech. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take any decision. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance of the Speaker's Office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U3	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I bring to you the sixth report of the Government of the Republic on the activities of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM). This time, I would like to highlight two of the most important issues in this report. First of all, the active phase of all ESM support programmes is over. This means that for the first time since the creation of the ESM, we are in a situation where the ESM no longer makes new loan payments. Among other things, Greece is able to finance itself again. As a second keyword, I would like to mention the planned reform of the ESM, which, after the debate in recent years, is coming to a close. The essence of this reform is that the mandate of the ESM will be extended. While the ESM has so far only supported Member States in difficulties, in future the ESM will also be an anchor for the euro area in the reorganisation of systemically important financial institutions. In addition, the ESM will have a greater role and say in drawing up assistance programmes supported by the ESM instruments. In total, three countries have been supported by ESM support programmes: Greece, Spain and Cyprus. At the end of the active phase of the programme, monitoring will continue to ensure that countries are able to repay the funds borrowed from the ESM. So far, we do not have any signals that any of these countries might fail to pay. The ESM currently has EUR 410 billion, or 82% of its lending capacity, available funds that could be used for resolution if needed. Estonia's participation in the ESM has remained unchanged since the establishment of the ESM. The paid-up capital shall be EUR 148,8 million and, if necessary, EUR 1,15 billion. The resources required for the assistance programmes have been borrowed from the market by the ESM on the basis of a guarantee for the paid-up capital of the Member States. This means that Member States' money is not used to grant ESM grants. Due to the high capitalisation, the ESM has a good rating that allows for a favourable loan. This has saved the beneficiary countries a good amount for Greece, for example, an estimated 7% of GDP, which has been used to bring the economy out of a deep crisis. ESM made a profit of EUR 244.7 million last year, which was allocated to the ESM Reserve Fund by decision of the Board of Governors. This fund is a buffer for potential losses and a "first line of protection' against capital requirements. The reserve fund currently amounts to EUR 2.3 billion. At this point, I would like to say a little more about Greece, which has completed the ESM aid programme, as the last country. For the first time since 2010, Greece is again receiving loans from the capital markets at affordable prices. Of the initially agreed EUR 86 billion aid programme, 61.9 billion were disbursed from the ESM. The remaining amount was not used and cancelled. The first two aid programmes in Greece were financed by EFSF, the predecessor of the ESM. In total, EFSF and ESM loans to Greece amount to EUR 203.77 billion. Greece shall start to repay the EFSF loans in 2023 and the debt repayment period shall be 2070. Before completing the Greek aid programme, the finance ministers decided in the Eurogroup to give Greece further debt relief. This consists of a waiver of the additional interest requirement, a deferral of the start of repayment and an extension of the payment deadline. Relief will be possible for Greece gradually, provided that the country remains on the agreed path and does not reverse the reforms. According to the European Commission's recent forecast, the Greek economy will grow by 2.3% in the coming year, but there is still a great deal of work ahead of us to recover from the economic crisis. I repeat here what my predecessors have said when presenting the ESM reports. The ESM has been able to make a significant contribution to the stabilisation of the euro area. The ESM was set up as a rapid response unit during the crisis, but in the meantime the longer-term resolution framework has also been able to develop. By this I mean the Banking Union, which includes the introduction of a single supervisory regime and a single resolution regime for European systemically important financial institutions, to which a single deposit insurance may be added in the future. Discussions on this issue are ongoing in Europe. All together, we should ensure greater stability in the European banking system and avoid future situations where countries themselves are called into question by their own solvency by saving their large systemic banks. This resolution framework now also sees the role of the ESM. The Heads of State agreed more detailed principles for the reform of the ESM last December, in spring 2018 and when discussing the same issue again. These principles were clarified at the Finance Ministers meeting in June 2019. According to these decisions, the ESM will become the last institution to provide insurance to the Banking Union resolution fund so that the SRM can function properly. To put it simply, it will start to fund large banks with a public interest to maintain their functions, so that they can at the same time be repaired without destabilising the financial system. The last instance means that the ESM funds will only come into play once the bank's owner, creditors and the resolution fund collected from bank contributions are exhausted. This fund was put in place several years ago. Similar public sector guarantees as a last resort exist in several countries, increasing the credibility of the resolution framework. A loan taken from the ESM will be repaid by the banking sector itself in accordance with this plan. Such amendments require a change in the ESM Treaty and in this context, other ESM support instruments and functions will also be reviewed. As I said, these changes have reached the final stage in their disputes, and the contractual changes that have been introduced as a result of these disputes will probably also be before the Riigikogu within the next year's number. That's all for me. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U4	Thank you, good minister. There are questions for you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I recall this debate in 2012 when these ESM agreements were discussed here in the Riigikogu. At the time, you did not hold yourself back, you mentioned the ESM and EFSF to pay off debts in other countries, and you were still very critical. You said here that the National Union would never allow such agreements to be imposed on its people, as you wrote the EFSF and the ESM. How do you look back on it now? We'll take Greece. You said Greece was on the bond market. By the way, today, Eesti Pank was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and showed that the Greek budget is in a better position than Estonia's budget was structurally valued. How do you now assess whether we have paid off Greece's debts and whether Greece has benefited from this ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U6	Thank you. We'll find out in 2070. Yes, I have never been in favour of Estonia joining the EFSF or the ESM. If it had been within my power, we wouldn't have joined. I don't think it was morally right. But the state is consistent and these contractual commitments are made, so are they. But that everything has gone well, we can say when the Greek programme has ended in 2070.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U7	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U8	Thank you. I'd actually like to thank you. This praise to the ESM confirmed how the loans work well, how Greece has been reformed, made viable and how you are in agreement with your predecessors. It's just touching. True, from the members of the EKRE I always get some kind of social media and such grinning smiles to go there, but empty because, above all, my heart is filled with gratitude and admiration for your speech. But tell me what concern you have with your groupmates. At ELD, they voted down your proposals in substance, the only one. You took some positions into the government, the government approved them, you came to the EIAK and you praised them, but the group does not support you. What was the contents there? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U9	Thank you. I'd love to. Of course, words of praise and gratitude are still for the people who joined the ESM in their time. It's nice to give praise to the mirror. But in this case, I would point out that I wasn't there at the time. This was indeed the position of the government that was discussed there, but it also concerns the text in the introductory speech that was agreed at the level of the Heads of Government in 2018 and which was in June 2019 at the ECOFIN meeting, the European Union finance ministers. I remember I didn't approve of the changes to the ESM Treaty there. I don't think I'm going to go into the long details or the arguments I have right now. There is no secret that our party does not support the amendment of the ESM Treaty and will vote on it in ELAK and in this large hall, as it is, but it is already a vote of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U10	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This criticism and scepticism in the creation of the ESM was once recalled, whether it was right and fair, whether it was carrying out its role, etc. It is known that crises are being learned. And the ESM was created because of the financial crisis. What do you think is the lesson we have learned from this financial crisis and the creation of the ESM for the future of the euro zone?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U12	Thank you. Yeah, they learn from crises, only the question is whether the right things are right. We have very different ways of responding to the crisis, for example in 2009 or 2008. I would divide them broadly into three: one was how the United States reacted, the other was how the euro area reacted, and the third was how Iceland reacted, for example. Personally, it seems that Iceland reacted most adequately and best. Capitalism can only function if there is both profit and loss and bankruptcy in the final phase of the loss. Europe has decided that bankruptcy is not possible. In order to cover this decision, obligations were imposed on taxpayers that were not their own, i.e. private debt was made public. This deepened the crisis, which reached its peak in 2014 at large. It was then fought or the European Central Bank was called on as the last line. There have been a number of decisions from there that we cannot yet assess the final consequences for the economic environment, for example, by talking more specifically about negative interest rates or a huge quantitative relaxation. The fact is that today, in Europe, the burden of debt is greater than that of some of the exceptional states, more than ten years ago. The fact is that the central bank's fiscal manoeuvring space is completely exhausted. If the next crisis breaks out and if it is a very serious banking crisis, we will see if the things that have been undertaken over the last ten years will actually help. Everyone's probably hoping to help, but the lesson is still gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U13	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U14	Good minister! I will continue on the subject raised by Mr Sõerdi and Mr Near. Is this situation a little schizophrenic, you're on the remote, you're talking about the positive sides of the ESM, and then you're saying that the faction will vote against anyway? I heard you say last week in Question Time that you only have one truth that you share. How about this now? When you come down here as Minister of Finance, are you going to proclaim the truth that you think isn't the truth?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U15	Thank you. Well, there's only one truth. The truth is the truth. I don't see schizophrenia. I would remind you once again that in June 2019 I did not support the amendment of the ESM Agreement as the representative of Estonia. That's what you're referring to. Now I don't know what kind of praise speech. For six years this program has been working, summaries are being made every year, I brought it to you in summary and numbers. This is an institution in which Estonia's participation is extremely small, say, in terms of management and capital share, and where we step out in a very simplified way is possible only if we decide at one point that we will also step out of the European Union. This, however, is not on the agenda today. So with this ESM, we live on these are the decisions that have been made in the past, the consequences of which we live. But this is separated from the question of whether we support the extension of the possibility of using the money collected by the ESM, which is essentially the purpose of this amendment to the contract. These are the following decisions and we have our own opinion on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U16	Thank you. Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U17	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I am also pleased to note that participation in the executive power is developing. I was not in this Chamber in 2012, but when I was in the Chamber of the European Parliament, I heard the debates in Estonia and somehow you remember your sharp attitudes. One of the essence of the European Union is solidarity, support for each other. In this context, you will certainly face very colourful negotiations on the new EMF, negotiations on the new financial period. You should certainly prepare the answers for the negotiations when these things come to the Council where the Prime Minister will probably take you with him to gain greater solidarity with Estonia. If there are any complaints in this context that, listen, you have asked for less solidarity in Europe by not supporting the ESM, what are your answers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U18	Thank you. It's great that everyone likes the way I've evolved. I like it, too, and I'm glad it's noticed. With solidarity, things are still very sour in Europe. Very sour. The questioner knows even that we are the last to receive agricultural payments in terms of the amount of the aid. There are very, very many places where we are treated much worse than the 'old' or 'large' Member States. So, yes, we are in favour of solidarity with two hands, only we can see these solidarity points to our detriment today. As far as solidarity with the ESM is concerned, it is even more hopeless than any other solidarity. This is the kind of solidarity where taxpayers' money, or public money, is taken and this helps the private sector, or bankers. I think that talking about solidarity here is misleading people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U19	Thank you. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U20	Thank you. Good Martin! All my colleagues here say you've evolved. I don't know. You said there was one truth. When we joined the ESM, your truth was that you shouldn't join it, it's evil, let's not go there. If there is one truth, and I realize that this truth is the same position you had when we joined the ESM, do you think it would be right for you to get out of that ESM right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U21	Thank you. I think I just said that, yeah. Unfortunately, you can't step out of there, or I'd walk right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U22	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U23	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Many are probably confusing here, but the European Union and the ESM are in no way identical. Only those countries that are euro-zone countries belong to the ESM, as I recall, were 22 of them, and this policy has nothing to do with European Union policy. But my question is, is there any possibility that, at some point, since the ESM is now completely capitalised, somebody's loans will be written off. Is there a possibility of deletion in the articles of association and could it ever arise on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U24	Thank you. I must admit that I cannot, at this point in time, say whether there is a possibility of deletion in this way. I imagine the contract basically is, but I don't have the guts right now. But I do not see politically any possibility that the loan will be extinguished. That's one of the reasons I drew attention to 2070. Actually, it's a substitute for erasing it. If we push loan repayments here over a period that has never been used before in the history of the world, because there have never been such long periods, then in fact, instead of repayment or write-off of loans, there is a different kind of distortion to reduce the burden of the loan, the 'time tooth' will be allowed to chew it. This may also apply to interest payments in the same way. This, too, is essentially one way of reducing the debt burden in this way, without any government that has been on the creditors' side should go public saying that we will not be able to get that money back. It is true, however, that the ESM is not equal to the European Union, but it must then be made clear that it basically overlaps with the euro area.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U25	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U26	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I like principled people. It's really nice. But the principles are just such that they must be applied universally. It is not about applying principles in a situation where you like it or benefit from it and not in other situations. Imagine if you were, for example, in the position of the German Minister of Finance. In a situation where billions of German taxpayers' money have been sent to Estonia even before joining the European Union and just for thank you, if that is the case, and where savings and loans are at stake for Germany, we say that we will not come to the aid. Do you think that's principled? How is it possible, for example, at the next meeting in Helsinki, in the context of the MFF negotiations, to say with a really honest face to the Germans, that, however, hog your hundred, pay our farmers higher support, but we actually want to leave the ESM?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U27	Yes, of course, I hope, at least, that I am a principled person myself, but on this point I think I am sitting in ECOFIN next to the German Minister of Finance, and we are always talking to him, that I look him in the very straight eye, because the Germans have not only shared their money for thanks. On top of that, the Germans earn a great deal of money from the European budget alone and are also very good at using it. The benefits the Germans derive from the euro project and from the whole of the European Union are much greater. The German taxpayer pays much more money to French, French farmers, as well as Dutch farmers than to Estonian or Polish farmers, for example. Look, I don't know what kind of thanks they're doing it for. But if we now look at how the euro has worked or also, let us say how the entire European economy works, it still works very much in favour of the German economy. Perhaps the number that no one wants to look at is all talking about debt figures for the European Stability Pact, but there is another great indicator for which infringement procedures should be prescribed, a surplus of foreign trade. The surplus of foreign trade has been on record within the European Union for 20 years. This means that the Germans have earned very well at the expense of the rest of the European economy. It is a highly talented built system, and it is not just for thanks. It is a system for supporting the German economy and people's prosperity, which is being kept in place by giving money to those who could be complaining through the European Union budget and saying not to complain. In this sense, I think that we should have no reason to feel bad or guilty about anyone. So far, we have actually fought too little for our own interests and our own money.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U28	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U29	Thank you for the very interesting questions and answers that very rarely sound in Estonia! You mentioned, and I think, very rightly, that the ESM is actually a mechanism that takes citizens' money and, by doing so, mainly pays off the bad decisions of the German and French bankers. Unfortunately, we can't get out of the ESM right now. However, do we have any opportunity to reform the ESM and, more broadly, the monetary policy of the euro area in such a way that we give back to the countries their sovereignty, to some extent, to organise our economies in their own interests, rather than in the interests of the large German and French banks?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U30	Thank you. Yes, unfortunately, this reform has already been planned for several years, and, as I said in my introductory speech, this reform has come to an end. My assessment, unfortunately, is that this reform is moving in exactly the other direction from what you have just asked for. We could always want to change this whole scheme somehow. In addition to the amendments to the ESM Statute, there are a number of different parallel activities that are being discussed in Europe and where, let's say, the options have been all worked out in the discussions, but there are no agreements. For example, a single deposit guarantee system has been discussed, which, in theory, should help us make deposit guarantee safer and cheaper, but it certainly has its price at stake. And there are a lot of other things like that about supervision. However, on the amendments proposed by the ESM Statute, which have already been broadly accepted politically, and should begin to reach national parliaments next year, I do not dare to say that they are going through as smoothly in all parliaments as they have been in ECOFIN or the Council. These changes are unfortunately moving in a different direction, and their main aim is to provide additional support for the reorganisation and capitalisation of banks in crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U31	Thank you. Unfortunately, there is one question for every member of the Riigikogu. Riina Sikkut has already used it. Looks like there's no more questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. The speakers may be representatives of the political groups. There is no wish to speak, so there are no negotiations. Is there another line the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. Then we will have the first item over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U32	Let's go to the second item. This is the first reading of the draft law 106 on the amendment of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. As a waitress, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, Martin Helme, to speak here again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U33	I went, changed the file, and now we're going for a ride. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Today's first reading is the draft Income Tax Act, which transposes the European Union Directive. The aim of this directive is to avoid double non-taxation caused by "hybrid mismatches." Such mismatches may arise, for example, from a different qualification of payments or entities. This means the possibility for companies operating in several countries to not pay taxes, reaping the benefits of differences in tax systems. According to the draft, the changes will no longer allow tax exemption for income already deducted or exempt from income tax in another country. However, in certain cases taxes are levied on taxes, expenses or losses which can also be deducted in another country and which are exempt from income tax in another country. In addition, the draft introduces a number of tax incentives for natural persons, which are included here outside the directive on our own initiative. Beneficiaries of maternity, adoption or redundancy benefits paid at the end of the year may, for tax purposes, transfer part of the benefit to the following year. Thus, their tax-free income will not be reduced and they will not have to pay any more income tax. The additional tax-free income for the child will also be increased by EUR 100 per month from the third child, i.e. EUR 1200 per year. If the child receives a survivor's pension or national pension in the event of a survivor's survivor's pension, the changes do not result in a reduction in the additional tax-free income for the child. The draft exempts home support for children's families with a wealth of children from the state budget or support for improving the energy efficiency of small homes. According to the current law, KredEx will have to retain income tax for these benefits paid to natural persons and will also affect the amount of tax-free income for people. Income received from abroad by a resident natural person, including retirement, shall be subject to deductions from taxable income equivalent to that obtained in Estonia. Deductions can also be made in full if most of the income is received from a foreign country, in particular, we are talking about pensions earned here in Finland. The draft extends the deadline for the submission of a tax return by a natural person, a non-resident, a collective investment fund management company and a public limited liability company until 30 April, compared to the current 31 March, and the deadline for payment and refund of income tax to 1 October, which is also an extension compared to the current 31 March. The threshold for the payment of advance payments by self-employed workers is significantly raised from the current EUR 64 to EUR 300. All these changes are good for people and very good. They will also lead to a small reduction in the revenue from the state budget, but I nevertheless call for support.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U34	Thank you. Everyone has the opportunity to put two oral questions to the rapporteurs on this draft. The first question is on Urmas Espenberg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U35	Honourable speaker! Good minister! Did I get it right that the old rule was that the pension earned in Finland had to be declared in Estonia and then added and deducted from the income tax? Does this law bring about any changes now? I didn't exactly notice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U36	Yes, exactly so it is that income earned abroad, including pension income, will be calculated on the exact same basis as income received in Estonia and pension income.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U37	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U38	Thank you. With regard to this third child's additional income tax exemption, I ask what these impact assessments are. How many families can use it, what is the budgetary impact? There the demand for income actually gets very high, so that it can be implemented at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U39	Thank you. Now I'm gonna see if I have all these numbers in this memo because I can't answer by heart. But I'm afraid I can't find them right now. Whoa, whoa, whoa. [[Browse papers.]] I have to apologize, I can't find these numbers right now, but we can send them after.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U40	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, as rapporteur for the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U41	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu on 14 November, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 106 was discussed. The Minister of Finance presented the purpose and content of the draft. Explains that this draft Income Tax Act transposes a directive of the European Union aimed at avoiding double non-taxation. This means the possibility of non-payment of taxes by companies operating in several countries, reaping the benefits of differences in tax systems. In addition to the directive, many proposals were also made in the state budget. Many of the proposals that were made to the state budget have been brought to the bill that we have asked the Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to prepare. The proposal exempts individuals from income tax in order to improve the living conditions of a family rich in children and in order to improve the energy efficiency of a small house. The additional tax-free income for the child does not decrease if the child receives a survivor's pension or a national pension in the event of the loss of the recipient. The additional tax-free income for the child will increase by EUR 100 from the third child onwards. The possibility of converting tax liability from maternity and adoption benefits paid in the fourth quarter of the calendar year or under the Employment Contracts Act, the Public Service Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act is established, i.e. the transfer to the following calendar year. The deadline for the submission of a tax return of a natural person, a non-resident, a management company of a collective investment fund and a public limited liability company fund shall be extended until 30 April and the deadline for the refund of income tax shall be 1 October. In addition, the threshold for the payment of advance payments by self-employed workers is raised from EUR 64 to EUR 300. Therefore, advance payments are not required if the amount of a quarterly payment does not exceed EUR 300. In addition, income received from abroad by a resident natural person, including retirement, shall be guaranteed equivalent to income received in Estonia, deductions from taxable income shall be granted in accordance with paragraph 12.34 of the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic 2019. In order to ensure equal treatment, equivalent deductions from taxable income shall also be granted to residents of the EEA Contracting State who receive income in Estonia. So thank you, very good bill! And many of the very good proposals that have come from the opposition are also in this draft. We hope to adopt this law before the state budget. Many laws will apply from 1 January. Those who currently have a problem with birth benefits or benefits should not have to pay for this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U42	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions. Let's open the negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of draft 106. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 28 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-18_U43	Now everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. However, since there is no free microphone's wish to speak, I thank you. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 15.43 p.m.
