ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 7th working week Thursday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of submitting inquiries and drafts. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! On behalf of the Social Democrats, I am handing over a bill that will exceptionally increase pensions from 1 April 2020 to improve the lives of older people. Although the average old-age pension has risen by 100 euros over the last four years, the retirement income of very many people is insufficient. According to Eurostat, Estonia has played a leading role in the European Union since 2014 in the proportion of older people living at risk of poverty. In 2017, 41.2% of the 65-year-olds and parents lived at risk of poverty. Annual indexation does not save pensioners from poverty; this can only be achieved through extraordinary increases in pensions. In the Riigikogu elections in 2019, almost all elected parties asked voters for a mandate for an extraordinary pension increase. The Social Democrats asked for support for pension increases in line with wage and price increases and plans to raise the average pension to 700 euros per month. According to the long-established model of social democrats, first, the basic pension must be increased by EUR 100, thus indexing to an average old-age pension of EUR 700 over four years. This would also help the beneficiaries of a small pension and those who have not found a job or a new job in the golden middle age and have gone to an early retirement pension, i.e. a reduced retirement pension. With the draft, we plan to increase the national pension by 60 euros. It is estimated that the additional pension increase will require EUR 200 million from the state budget. Let us not deceive our voters, respected parliamentarians, and exceptionally raise pensions from 1 April next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U3	Thank you. There are no more requests for referrals of drafts and enquiries. I've adopted a bill. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes this in accordance with the Labour and Rules of Procedure Act. Now the messages. Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up a Forest Support Group, convened by Heiki Hepner. Checking for presence. 79 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present; no 22.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. We have four items on the agenda. The first is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Estonian Language Development Problem Committee' (3 OE) submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group. I ask Paul Puustusmaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U5	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm happy to be in front of you with a report. First of all, the procedure in the lead committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, between first and second readings. The Conservative People's Party Group, the Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu on 30 April, setting up a committee on the development of Estonian language learning. The first reading of the draft act took place on 27 May, then it was proposed to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 9 a.m. on 28 May. No amendments were tabled at that time. The second reading of the draft law was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 28 May. The Commission itself decided to make one amendment, which is in principle editorial. This follows from the common legislative practice and the proposal is to formulate the second sentence of the first paragraph of the draft in the same way as the basis for the composition of the committee in the case of special committees, i.e. the Commission is a member of each political group. If you look at the original text, it contained the expression 'based on the principle of parity'. It is indeed more sensible, polite and beautiful when parities have been replaced and now the wording is as follows: 'the Commission belongs to one member of each political group'. The Commission also reviewed the linguistic changes made by the language editor and approved the second reading text. In principle, no substantive or substantive change has been made in the setting up of this committee; there are simply some purely linguistic clarifications. On 7 May, the Commission proposed that, when the first reading was closed on 27 May, the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading, including 30 May. At its meeting on 28 May, the Commission decided to propose the end of the second reading of the draft and to put the draft to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U6	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. I'm sorry! There are questions. Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have this question: is it also on the agenda in the Commission that, since this is a committee of problems, which is the subject of many other committees, particularly the Committee on Social Affairs, how will these two committees work together in the future so that we can still get here in a very good and as strong a document as possible after a while?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U8	I can say that this issue was not discussed in the second reading debate in the Commission; we had purely technical things there. But, if I remember correctly, the time Mikhail Stalnukhin answered the questions, this issue was also addressed and it was found that this work and cooperation would work in any case. So I can only say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U9	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U10	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! After all, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we had quite a lot of discussion about whether or not the existing problem committees have been effective, and there were also different opinions. How's your assessment? In a situation where the country is short of money and it is said that cuts must be made from all sides, is it appropriate to set up a committee which, at least according to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is questionable in terms of efficiency, with the additional costs involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U11	Thank you for your question. The issue of purpose was also discussed in the Commission. In general, it was found to be practical and has no negative impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U12	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U13	Thank you. I'd like to know how you discussed it. The news is that the research money will not grow and the salaries will not rise next year, but the Riigikogu will make another post. I do know the reason why the coalition agreement does not have any ambition to introduce education in Estonian. And this right here is the reverse. We are doing a Commission, we are forming a Commission that seems to be dealing with a similar thing. Now tell me when the coalition is going to move to Estonian-language education. The issue of language development is certainly not the responsibility of politicians. When will education in Estonian come?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U14	Thank you, good questioner! However, I must admit that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U15	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! My question is very straightforward. Is this a motion of distrust to the Ministry of Education and Research and the Committee on Culture, which cannot do its job? And you mentioned it's like it doesn't cost anything. What are the real costs of setting up this committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U17	Well, I believe that it is certainly not quite appropriate to put this question of censure to me now. However, unfortunately, I cannot respond to the Commission's costs at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U18	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U19	Thank you. I am now going to ask the Commission's rapporteur, because I myself belong to this Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Of course, we discussed the question of Tõnis Möldr. I don't know where you were at that moment, but as a waitress, you might have noticed. We discussed this in such a way that the Committee on Social Affairs can always invite the Committee on Problems to negotiate or report, no matter what we call it, but we do not put it in the proposals for setting up the Commission. Today it has become clear that the Committee on Social Affairs has withdrawn its proposal. I don't know where you were at that time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U20	Thank you for the clarification. This question is now also clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U21	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U22	Thank you. Good waitress! Let me remind you that we in the Commission also discussed very thoroughly that if one committee were to deal with the Estonian language, the name of this committee could also be in the correct and non-cancel Estonian language. In fact, the topic also arose that this committee should not only be involved in the teaching of Estonian, but precisely in the teaching of Estonian, which is known to be two different things. In order for education in Estonian to become dominant throughout Estonia, it is precisely in Estonian that it is necessary to study the Estonian language and not to teach the Estonian language as either a mother or a foreign language. You and the majority of the Commission or members of the coalition believed that it had to be Estonian-language learning, not Estonian-language learning or the issue of Estonian-language education. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U23	Thank you for your question. First of all, this title. Yes, in that sense, the correct remark is that the Commission's name has now been changed to a more precise and customary one: the Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning. Before, in the original version, it was a little more cumbersome: Parliament's Problem Committee to deal with the development of Estonian language learning. And indeed, it is also right that the Commission discussed quite thoroughly, even perhaps a bit heatedly, the issue that this committee is going to deal with, whether it is language learning or learning in Estonian. I understood that it was still the idea that we were talking about teaching the Estonian language in the first place and not learning the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U24	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U25	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I am interested to know whether there was also a discussion in the committee about this, after all, the Riigikogu has also formed a number of problem committees during the previous term, which important problems in society have been solved by problem committees and what proposals to make. It would be interesting to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U26	There was no such in-depth discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U27	Thank you. Honourable waitress! However, I will come back to what Mr Ligi started with. In the last few days, a lot has been said about the lack of money. I'm just saying, if there's no money, there really isn't. Then there is no money to make more positions for partyers. Perhaps you do not know as a new member, but the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee can travel to the courtyard of the Riigikogu, the vice-president has a wage supplement of about EUR 500 and the chairman of the committee has a wage supplement of about EUR 1000. Now, think of the face you're looking at those saviors and police officers whose raise this year is canceled because of your government. Perhaps the President will now be able to take a break and specify the cost of setting up these committees, because the rapporteur for the draft did not know how to respond. I think that was one of the last questions that was exactly about that. So please take a break and tell us what the cost of launching the committee to be discussed on this item is. In fact, we have the next item on the agenda from exactly the same area that you are simply creating posts for your own people. After all, these committees do not have any substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U28	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U29	Thank you, my good colleague. I promise I'll think about it, but taking a break doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U30	Heljo Pikhof, please! Heljo Pikhof is not in the hall. Let's go. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U31	Thank you! Good Paul! We did indeed discuss different topics in the Commission. Among other things, I raised the subject that, in fact, if there was any justification for setting up this committee, it could be called 'The Problem Committee on the Transition to Estonian Language Learning'. This proposal was not supported by the Commission. Why don't you give me your personal opinion? Do you support the fact that we are still talking about the transition to education in Estonian and the need to address this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U32	Thank you, good questioner! I support the current proposal 'The Problem Committee on the Development of Language Learning in Estonia'.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U33	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U34	Thank you. Good waitress! Here were the observations made by my good colleagues Hanno and Tavi. It is as if they have proposed to change the name of the Commission, but most have not supported it. I was also present at the committee meeting, and I was then familiar with the protocol, but I have not seen a single vote there on the subject. What do you think their claim that most did not support it is based on? It seemed to me that this decision was a consensual one.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U35	I hope I'm not mistaken, but if I remember correctly, this question was discussed and there were different ideas. But such a claim that it was not a consensual decision and that it was not in the final text as such, I cannot confirm.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U36	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'd go to philology. Language is always a very important part, for when language is not accurate, it can be very misunderstood. And now I'm reading from here to actually at the beginning of the story was that 'to deal with the development of Estonian language learning'. I understand that this committee is dealing with development and learning development issues. Will this committee deal with telling universities and other schools in advance how and with what methodology should they teach the Estonian language?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U38	Thank you for your question. In fact, the Commission's tasks are also set out in this draft. I understand that there is a sufficiently exhaustive list of points 2.1 to 2.6 that should provide an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U39	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, To put it mildly, I am surprised that you do not know what the cost of this draft decision is for the state budget. The fact that you don't know this amount is not such a big problem in itself, because you must be on the remote for the first time, but the fact that you're not ready to make this clear is still quite surprising to me. Is it normal for you that the decision and the draft law that arrives in this hall do not have to include the real cost of what it means for the state budget? If you are in this position, there is no need to surprise the position that the government has now reached with its budget and budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U41	Thank you, good questioner! To be clear, of course, I'm here for the third time, not the first time. But you can or will not give your vote to support it. If you find that it is not enough, it is bad or it is inappropriate, you can express it by pressing your button.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U42	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U43	Thank you very much. I will continue with the subject initiated by Maris Lauri. However, could you repeat to us before the vote what problem we have with the development of Estonian language learning? What kind of problem do you solve, exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U44	When we had our first reading, there was Mikhail Stalnukhin, here on the remote, who explained all the problems and answered the questions thoroughly. I understood that once in complete clarity, it was understandable, understandable, and there should be no further questions about it. Perhaps it would not be quite right for me to start discussing Stalnukhin's views right now. However, I would stress once again that the Commission's tasks, as set out in points 2.1 to 2.6, are quite exhaustive and clear from my point of view. It shows what problems need to be addressed and how these things have to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U45	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U46	Thank you. I will use this moment to clarify the question of Andrei Korobenik. Indeed, we did not have a vote, but the Commission's name was under discussion for a very long time, as was my proposal for the transition to education in Estonian and to deal with this problem. Really, we did not get to the vote. But I ask, good Member of the Commission, that, given all these questions, perhaps it would be appropriate to take 10 minutes of recess and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to meet quickly, even though I do not see the chairman of the committee now in the Chamber and to clarify the costs and other issues, it would be possible to come back to this issue. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U47	Thank you, good questioner! Personally, I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U48	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U49	Thank you. Personally, I think it is very important that we know what the costs of setting up this committee and the next committee to be discussed on the agenda are, because in recent days we read about the media every day about how the members of the government have been given great cuts and so many people all over Estonia are suffering for this, but you are creating more positions here. Well, that's just one part of it. The second part is that we have a bunch of permanent committees in the Riigikogu, and the agendas of the committees are quite flexible, mostly set by the chairman of the committee. So if the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Aadu Must, introduces to you, Aadu Must is the chairman of the Committee on Culture, would really like to deal with Estonian language issues, then he can put this issue on the agenda of the Committee on Culture repeatedly and repeatedly. You can also meet in the summer if the members of the Riigikogu do not usually meet at committee meetings, etc. There is no need to create a new Commission simply to create a significant wage increase for four people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U50	Thank you. I deeply respect your position. Indeed, you will be able to express your position by voting and either confirm or not to confirm the formation of the Commission. I understand you are against this committee. You have the opportunity to vote accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U51	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U52	Thank you. I have two things. First of all, dear waitress, I get the feeling that you do not even know what the purpose of this committee is or why it is being formed, which is why you do not want to say it in any way. Here, by not answering your colleagues' questions like this, you are actually showing disrespect. The second aspect is that, if the name of the Commission does not matter, we could also name this committee the Committee on Cow Growing, because you say in the explanatory memorandum everything that it should do.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U53	Thank you. I guess that wasn't a question, but I'll give you the answers. First of all, speaking of the name of this committee, as I said earlier, it was discussed and it was found that the current version, which sounds like 'the problem committee on the development of Estonian language learning', is better linguistically. As far as the Commission's tasks are concerned, yes, indeed, it is possible that it should have read out the specific tasks that have been set out in the decision to set up here, but I thought it would be more reasonable not to read them out in so far as you have been familiar with it. You can also get to know it now, find it in the back of the shelf or via the EMS. But if you really think it's necessary, I can read these assignments. For this matter to be resolved, and so that we can't talk about disrespect, I'll read them. The task of the Commission is to examine the current state of play of national policies, development plans and programmes related to the Estonian language and to make proposals to ensure high-quality learning of the Estonian language through the preparation of up-to-date teaching tools, curricula and methodologies; meeting and involving interest groups related to the Estonian language; analysing the planning and use of financial resources and making proposals; proposing legislative changes if necessary; assessing the impact of current and previous activities and their sustainability; studying language policies and experiences in other countries and, on this basis, making proposals to complement these policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U54	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U55	Thank you. From what you've read now, I give you advice. If there are stupid questions again about what problem we are solving, etc., just answer: we have a two-person problem here, two people want to get a minister's salary, so far we can't. Secondly, we have the problem here that somebody is always talking about education in Estonian, and it can be solved by setting up a committee that talks about learning the Estonian language instead. Did anyone in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs raise the issue that we have been taught Estonian before, and the conclusion has been this: Estonian language learning alone does not solve the social problem of society; education in Estonian is needed? Did the Commission have an exchange of views on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U56	Thank you for your question. Yeah, those ideas were exchanged. This debate was friendly and the views adopted are reflected in this document.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U57	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U58	Good manager! Good waitress! What should I do when Jürgen Ligi, Head of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, called our first meeting of the Commission today at 10:15 a.m., but now the colleagues of the Reform Party keep asking? Can I go to this first sitting of the Commission or should I wait here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U59	Thank you. I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U60	This question was obviously not discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! A few moments ago, you have read to us the objectives that this Commission has. It is quite clear from there that you intend to take over the work of universities and research and education institutions. That is why it is also understandable why research money does not, in principle, reach 1% of GDP. But it seems to me that you have not been enlightened about the way these problem committees have worked here in the Riigikogu. And one sad fact is that many of them have not reached a result. The last example was about population issues and it was a similar Commission proposed by the coalition, but the end result, which society would also benefit very much, is not really there. Did you discuss how such committees have worked in the past and what the result has been? Perhaps a question of thought.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U62	Thank you for your question. Yes, it is right that the issues concerning the previous committees and why their work was more or less forward-looking or effective were also discussed. I'm sure it was discussed. But this view, as if the Commission were trying to take over teaching at universities, is quite arbitrary, I cannot conclude from that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U63	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U64	Thank you. From your answer to Urmas Kruus I realized that this was partly the answer to my first question as well. In fact, it is not quite certain whether such problem committees can, however, raise and solve the problems that exist before society and for which we have standing committees here. But in the Riigikogu hall, I asked Mikhail Stalnukhin whether this problem committee was needed to show how many problems there are in Estonia, and of course there are, so we will not be able to switch to general education in Estonian in the near future. What are you gonna answer that question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U65	I'm sorry, I didn't quite understand the question. This last clarification was then whether it would be necessary for the Commission to... How was the end? [[S. Stone is talking about the hall.]] Yes, thank you, good questioner! I mean, it is certainly not the aim of this committee to show society that we have so many problems and that is why we cannot switch to education in Estonian. On the contrary. The aim of this Commission is rather to help ensure that this transition takes place as quickly and sensibly as possible. And in relation to the previous question, it can also be said that when earlier steps of this kind were discussed, it was admitted that political games have not produced results that are sufficiently effective. But we hope that this time the Commission's work will be more positive, stronger and effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U66	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U67	Thank you very much. These tasks, which you have read to us here from this draft, are very directly the responsibility of the Committee on Culture. I wonder why the permanent committee, the Committee on Culture, could not deal with these issues. What added value could this committee of problems bring to resolving this alleged problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U68	Thank you for your question. I can reaffirm that this issue was not discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs from the perspective of whether its work would overlap with the tasks of another committee or why we are discussing it at all, better to give it to another Commission or so on. Such issues were not discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U69	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U70	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! We can read from the text of this draft, which is technically what they want to do, and we have also realised that new posts will be created. My question, however, is a little more substantial, but perhaps you are still trying to open it. When we raised the question in 2017 that Estonian-language learning could begin from kindergarten, I remembered that there were political forces who told us that hands away from children and so on. Here in the Riigikogu there have also been linguists who have said that it is possible to move in 3 to 5 years. You also referred to political games. However, only one party with whom you are currently in the coalition has played. What is the common role of the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party in deciding on the transition to education in Estonian? Maybe you're trying to describe it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U71	Thank you for your question. First of all, I am happy to say here my very personal position. I like the transition to Estonian from kindergarten, which you have even mentioned, personally very much. But not only was EKRE's position on the development of the Estonian language under discussion at the upcoming problem committee. So I don't see that connection right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U72	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U73	Thank you. Good waitress! You have here offered a reference to political games and you have commented on the views of the various political parties. You are, however, represented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Was that really what the Commission was talking about, and I just haven't noticed it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U74	I understood the question as to whether the Commission was talking about political games. That was the question, wasn't it? There was no such discussion in the Commission as to whether these were political games.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U75	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U76	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! If I understood you correctly, you said in response to one question that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss possible overlaps with the work of other committees. That answer forces me to ask why you didn't discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U77	I owe you an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U78	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U79	Thank you. Good waitress! This draft decision states that one member of each political group belongs to the Commission. What happens if a political group does not appoint a member there? Can this Riigikogu commission work or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U80	I believe that such a situation is unlikely to arise, that the political group is unable to appoint any member. So I believe that this is not purely technical.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U81	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now we can go ahead with the procedure. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U82	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the Reform Party Group. I had this feeling that something had changed in the first few weeks. Right now, I was sure nothing had changed. Given that of all those who asked questions, only the honourable colleague Signe Kivi was in the hall on Monday, the others, after all, were not here, I repeat a few things over. I apologize to those who have heard all this a few days ago. There's a situation. Is there anyone in this room who says it's not a problem? There's probably no such thing, otherwise we wouldn't have these debates. What are these problems? One problem: linguists, language practitioners have said 30 years ago that learning needs to start in kindergarten. As a teacher of Estonian at the Narva Language Centre for ten years, I have spoken it almost all my life. The current situation is, as I said on Monday, that Narva, for example, is the only kindergarten where Estonian is properly taught, the Sun. There's a huge line. Why? Why are there no textbooks, methods and prepared teachers in other kindergartens? And I think, by the way, that not only in Narva is it a problem, it's not just in Ida-Viru County. A little higher level of the school. This spring I was once at the barbershop, sorry for such delicate details! And I listened to the master speak to the daughter who was waiting for him. My daughter reminded her that, Mommy, didn't you forget to pay for the Estonian language? I was interested, of course. It turned out that the girl is studying in a school where Estonian is taught, but she attends practical courses in Estonian at the same teacher and at the same school at the same time at the same time at the same school, for which additional money is needed. Isn't that a problem? When I talked about it, when I came to Tallinn, I was told that it was common practice. Now tell me that's not a problem. Next problem: 1389 hours of Estonian language, internships, refresher courses plus summer language camps etc. Are you satisfied with the Estonian language spoken by Russian graduates? I mean, there's a problem. Why? I could tell you a lot more things for a long time. For example, because some appreciate the money that has been wasted in 30 years to solve the language problem, in tens of millions, some speak of hundreds of millions of euros. Where is it and what has it given? I mean, if you don't see the problem in all of this and want to move forward in such a way that there is no instruction in Estonian in kindergarten, and in school it would be one that requires learning for extra money at night, that money is wasted on language courses that don't give anyone anything for God's sake if you don't see the problem! If you see a problem and you start, I would say, with full conviction that this is a matter for the Committee on Culture, then I apologise! Is this a line from this membership of the Committee on Culture, or has it been a line from the Committee on Culture in the past 26 years? It's always been that way. And I, for example, think that if in the last quarter of the century no one has initiated or dealt seriously with this issue, then they will not continue to do so. If you do not see the problem, then, of course, vote 'no'. Vote back, be good, and show that there is no need to seek all these solutions. Then I'll take you to the Book of the People or to Apollo, go to the shelf, I'll take a dictionary off the shelf, open it, and I'll show you some print and grammar errors. I have a sample where I found over 200 mistakes. Tutorials! Why have we had this situation for 30 years? Ladies and gentlemen, I understand this debate is more political. I understand, of course, that you need to find something bad in this. But as an Estonian philologist, I already have all these problems. [[Shows with his hand he's sick and tired.]] I cannot explain to these very decent, very good Estonian teachers why the state does not deal with this whole pile. And there's actually a desire to try and do something, so in four years' time, you can say: it's ours, we did it. In fact, it's not a waste of money. I believe that if you took it systematically and in principle, it would rather save a very large, I would say, huge amount of money. So make your choice. Are you in favour of the Estonian language being spoken by the entire Estonian population someday? Then I believe that you will support the creation of this Committee on Problems. If you oppose it and support segregation, then vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U83	Thank you. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am a young member of the Riigikogu, but most of you I have met and dealt with for years and years. And we've been talking about the same problem when I was head of the border guard, mayor or head of the school. As Mikhail said, 26 years have been dealt with, 26 years have been spoken of, 26 years have been ministers, education ministers have had the opportunity to resolve these matters. Hasn't been solved yet. Now you're complaining to this coalition about why you're going to solve this. Let's settle this. Of course, we would like to solve everything faster than our partners, but I know that everything takes time and language learning takes a certain amount of time. Of course, you have to start with that thing from kindergarten. I fully support the views of the previous speaker, of course, because with him too we have discussed these matters very much. Mistakes have always been made. Of course, politicians are such nice people who always want to be better than their neighbours, but let us be reasonable in terms of language learning, let us solve this problem. There is nothing to do; we must get to the point that we become a priority in Estonian. Consider the preservation of our language, our people, and our culture. Best of luck to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U85	Thank you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U86	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to Mr Stalnukhin's presentation, and in this sense we all agree on one thing: that there are people in Estonia who do not speak Estonian, that there are people in Estonia who study Estonian in another language and do not learn Estonian at such a level that they can work, study in higher education institutions or deliver in the future, is a problem. We absolutely agree with the problem. It's just a question of what we're doing to solve this. If you, the good coalition members, really want to solve this problem, then I will say this to the new members of the Riigikogu, the old truth is that if you want to solve something, you can allocate money from the state budget and start solving this problem. If you don't want to do it, do it by the Commission, do it by a working group and just start waving warm air. That's what we're against right now. We are in favour of tackling this problem, but there must be a budget strategy for the state, and there must be money in the state budget to develop a methodology, teach teachers and organise the whole of Estonian language. It's not there. It's just a problem committee. And what is perhaps particularly cynical, the auxiliary staff of the problem committee, or the officials who will be working there, will come from the content committees and, at the expense of that, they will now be able to do less work on'real committees'. So there is a problem, with which we all agree, just we think that there is no need for any special committee to get a higher salary, and to play work and solve the problem. That won't be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U87	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much like that the debate is lively, because the question is very important: how to improve Estonian language learning, how to speed up the transition to Estonian-language learning. And I am very pleased that, in principle, there is a consensus in this Chamber, and all the political groups and parties agree that it must be developed and that it must be achieved in Estonian. Despite the fact that it is very cynical that one party who was in government for 17 years did not solve the problem. What the hell. Despite the fact that there have been several former Ministers of Education and Research here in some political parties who absolutely did not address this issue when it was time. And what is more cynical is that there are people in this Chamber who think that Parliament has no role to play in this matter. Let the government do it, let them put more money into the budget, let them pay! I don't agree with that. I do not agree that Parliament has no role to play on such an important issue as the transition to Estonian-language learning or the development of Estonian-language learning. If anyone claims that this should be part of the Committee on Culture, it is a total political choice. So far, this has been highlighted as a stand-alone issue, which is not buried anywhere under the workload of the existing standing committee to let it be somewhere, let it do a little bit. This is such an important problem that needs to be addressed at the level of the Commission. If anyone's against it, whatever it is. Perhaps it is a question of priorities whether the Estonian language is important enough for them to solve this problem at the level of the problem committee, or whether it is not an important enough issue. Does anyone think that there is a consensus in the coalition or a common understanding of the pace at which or how quickly should one hundred percent switch to Estonian-language education? Of course not. If everything were exactly the same, I think there would be no difference between the various parties. That is the idea of a coalition agreement that a compromise will be found. The balance of compromise is one that everyone agrees with, I think, the opposition also agrees that the availability, methodology and additional training of teachers need to be improved. This is the preliminary work that needs to be done in order to switch to 100% Estonian-language education at all. Therefore, I do not understand very well the complaining or the spitefulness of why this committee of problems is bad and what it should be dealing with in a completely different way. I would expect constructive cooperation, where there are representatives of all the political groups in the Commission, to put forward proposals and, specifically, to put pressure on the government, because it must be up to Parliament to give the ministry guidance on how this problem should be addressed. This is how parliamentary democracy should work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U89	Thank you. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I'm asking for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U91	5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U92	Thank you. The previous speaker gave the impression that the permanent committees of the Riigikogu are dealing with trivial matters. As soon as there is a real problem, a special committee must be set up. I would remind you that, in addition to the transition to Estonian, we have had very serious issues in the past, such as our choices in energy. I believe that one of the most serious issues we need to address is the fight against climate change. I would not imagine well that we in the Committee on the Environment would like to delegate the fight against climate change to a special committee. Indeed, this could be considered, but I believe that instead of meeting once a week, as the Committee on the Environment does, it can easily come together three times a week, or even during sitting-free weeks, take it as a focus, focus on it and find a solution. There is no need to set up a special committee to deal with the transition to education in Estonian. During the last two years, opposition parties have proposed at least two times to give the government the task of establishing an action plan for the transition to education in Estonian. The same parties that are currently setting up this problem committee pressed the red button one time and the other. Some went out of this hall in shame, but basically they opposed that proposal. It is precisely to the very principle of the proposal that Jaak Madison, the previous speaker, explained here, that methods should be developed, Parliament's opinion given to the government as a basic task and that these things should be done. But these things can be done in a completely different way. The question is not at all what is the best possible way to switch to education in Estonian. Absolutely doesn't underestimate the subject, it's something that needs to be dealt with in depth. But as it is planned here today, it makes no sense at all. Since the President did not take a break or find out what the cost of setting up a special committee was, I went out of the hall once in the meantime, made a few phone calls and found out that it was generally an ax method. The budget for setting up a special committee is EUR 100000 per year. It's still quite a lot. Moreover, as Mr Kallas said, permanent committees are usually suffering, because the staff is taken from these committees. Who would like to come to work in the public sector for a temporary job in a special committee? This recruitment is not easy today, and the people of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu are working very hard on it. So let us think for a moment, ladies and gentlemen. We can really come to the aid of Aadu Black, Heidy Purga and the Committee on Culture, so that, in the framework of the Commission's regular and extraordinary meetings, the best specialists can be gathered and, if necessary, EUR 100000 can be involved in ordering some external expertise and not in setting up four posts. Not to create additional benefits for the same politicians who have voted against the transition to education in Estonian and the task given to the government on two occasions. Absolute hypocrisy! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U93	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, I couldn't miss the remote control because my colleague, Kalle Palling, always wants me to say something. So I'm trying to talk. First of all, there is a really wide range of topics in the Committee on Culture. And he's wide because there's been a lot of problems over the last dozen years that have been talked about a lot, but nothing's been done. I can recall that the Committee on Culture had to take up such things that they thought they did not need to be dealt with in Estonia. For example, I also like higher education, but in addition to that, we took a vocational education that limped all the legs, as many as he had. Or we can take the problems of training disabled children and a number of other things. There was already talk about the organisation of the Commission's work on which jobs to do and what not to do. I'm saying that's what we've been discussing quite thoroughly. Obviously, it is appropriate not to create unnecessary duplication, so that a large and real Commission, as Kalle Palling says, would not do exactly what the Special Committee is doing, place additional burdens on technical staff, and at least in part it would serve the staff of the Committee on Culture. But that's the detail. In fact, we are not talking here today about what one commission is or so, but about two different methods of teaching the Estonian language, the transition to the Estonian language. One of them is what the Reform Party proposes: with a quick cavalry attack, we will take a decision and announce that there will be no work in progress, we will be doing well tomorrow, and that is what we will do. Look at the verbatim, it says nicely how Jürgen Ligi talks during the previous term: 'Yes, I admit that the matter has not been dealt with in the meantime. " He dared even shake ashes on his head and say that something like this had happened in his day. Tell me about it. We have been discussing whether we are doing some serious work or work of substance. I looked after the interest after the announcement, the archival professor still, I like to read the documents, which has been dealt with by the Reform Party during its reign. It turns out that the Estonian language teaching strategy was actually developed, the contract was made, and the Püssi flower shop, if you want to take a look at the verbatim, was already solved by the inquiry. After that, to say that no, the Riigikogu commission is not needed, still sounds kind of strange. We can argue about this. I am of the opinion that the special committee must deal with those things that Parliament considers to be very important and very important. Since the Reform Party has recently also stressed that this is a crucial issue, there is no point in doing something first and then we will discuss what came out. At the moment, it is appropriate to set up a special committee in order to really ask him for an in-depth account at the end of his term of office and to see whether the tasks have been or have not been carried out. The Püssi flower shop or the Special Committee of the Riigikogu are institutions with different capacitities and influence, in this sense we are dealing with the matter and we support the formation of a special committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U95	Thank you. Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U96	Ladies and gentlemen, I represent the Russian-speaking population here, and I really feel this problem from the inside. I've been watching these debates, let's say, ever since I was in school. And I am convinced that such a commission really needs to be set up, because strategies need to be developed to help ultimately teach Russian-speaking children the Estonian language. This is indeed very important and necessary. We must also take into account that we have a very small country and that the highest value is for educated people. So far, however, there are quite a few problems in Russian-speaking schools, including methodology. That is why I consider it necessary and right that philologists, specialists and educators, not just politicians, also address this issue. But politicians can support this idea, and I call on you to support the creation of such a committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U97	Thank you. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U98	Thank you. There's no need for extra time. I don't have much to say, but I thought everyone was talking, talking a little bit. They said it would be good if there was a special committee, then it would be possible to ask someone in a demanding way what you have done. In the previous composition, we also had a special committee dealing with the issues of population reproduction. Have we asked them in a demanding way, or did we get some result? Oh, hell, no! This committee was set up precisely to enable a central party to have a job. And now we are seeing exactly the same trend: we are doing a special committee to pay a higher salary and give politicians some benefits. I can give you two examples, international. When there was a deportation in 1949, people were sent to Siberia. I have spoken to those Estonian people who were young at the time, five girls who did not speak a word of Russian. They were given a Russian textbook on the first day of school, and it was a complete immersion. Six months later, they spoke Russian purely. I myself fled Estonia a long time ago, in 1984. I went to Sweden, didn't speak a word of Swedish. There was no committee there, nothing at all, but I was clear from day one: I have to learn this language if I want to do well in this society. A year later, I had more free time, and I thought I'd go to language classes. I wasn't taken there because I did an entrance test and they said you were too good at it. And yet I am far from being a very talented person, I think so. In fact, language learning does not begin except from a special committee or from some pretended substitution activity. It begins after those people, politicians who are of Russian origin and speak very good Estonian themselves, once come together and give a signal to society: the only reason that we have come this far in politics is that we are good at speaking Estonian. And if you Russian youths want to get somewhere in this society, learn the Estonian language, it is important. But so far, we see quite often in the media fields such statements that Estonian is a dying language, a back-room language, a European collaborator and whatever. Assemble yourselves and tell your fellow countrymen: "Learn the Estonian language! " It begins a great deal. And then we make a decision here, not a problem committee that just rolls the time and the money forward, but then it is not possible to ask anyone any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U99	Thank you. Does Taavi Clothes have a speech on the subject? Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U100	Thank you, good manager. I would like to settle one issue and the misconception that some of those who have spoken here seem to have. Indeed, a number of speakers have said that it is as if it were the task of this committee to deal with the transition to education in Estonian. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where we dealt with this draft, I asked on several occasions whether a stellar error had been made, because this committee is involved in teaching the Estonian language and not in teaching the Estonian language, or education in the Estonian language, and I was assured that it was the initiator and the Commission's firm wish that language learning was being carried out. In other words, the teaching of Estonian as either a mother or a foreign language was not specified, rather than the transition to education in Estonian. This was a clear message from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. If we would like to address education in Estonia in Estonian, a similar bill should be made, which my colleague, Kalle Palling, spoke about in order to give the government a task. This, however, was repeatedly voted down by both the Fatherland and the Centre Party in the previous formation. If there is a real desire to switch to Estonian-language education, then such a draft could now be made and given this task to the government. And I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that it is six minutes past 11 o'clock, that the seal of scientists began in front of our house because there is no money. But here we are discussing how to separate 100,000 cookies. I think we should be embarrassed right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U101	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U102	Ladies and gentlemen, There were two types of speeches during this debate. Some people think that in Estonia, Estonian could be the language in which we communicate, the language in which we speak in public, the language that we use when we do not know each other, and for some reason we do not have any other language that we prefer with each other. Automatic public language. And we consider it important that this country, whose lingua franca is an Estonian language whose official language is Estonian, takes seriously the question of how everyone actually has access to learning this language. Colleagues gave a very good overview of what problems are there, until all the groups of Estonian languages that are opened are immediately filled on the first day. There are a lot of problems. Another number of people think that Estonian should be in the lavatory. It's a piece of shit to tell our Russian-speaking people that you're not real. You can't be Russian in Estonia. You have to pretend that you are Estonian, and it would be good if you also studied physics in Estonian, because otherwise you are not really. And that would be embarrassing. Really. If we now wonder if we want to say to our Russian-speaking population that you are real and we care about it, and we also care that you can learn Estonian as well as possible, and we will monitor all the problems This shows that we in this Chamber really care about our voters, and this hall is not a place where empty air, as some thought. I don't know, maybe there's a vigilante coming here just to talk. Some people come here to actually solve problems. I think that the people who are voting against this draft today will do so in a conjunctural way and will do so in order to use Estonian as a malana. Please don't do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U103	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. An amendment to the draft has also been tabled. It has been presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. There are no other amendments. We can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Estonian Language Development Problem Committee'. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 24 against and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U104	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the 'Conservative People's Party' (4 OE) resolution committee of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Isamaa. I ask Paul Puustusmaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U105	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your previous positive decision. That was nice. We will move on to the next point, the issue of setting up a problem committee for the resolution of the population crisis. The Centre Party, Conservative People's Party and Isamaa submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu on 30 April, which decided to set up a committee to solve the population crisis. The first reading of the draft was on 27 May. I must thank Jaak White for this overview, which was extremely thorough and very pleasant. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 9 a.m. on 28 May. One amendment was received from the Committee on Social Affairs, while the Committee on Social Affairs later withdrew it, before the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The second reading of the draft was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 28 May. It was headed by Jaak Madison, attended by Andrei Korobeinik, Igor Kravtšenko Oudekki as alternate member of the commission, Mart Nutt, Hanno Pevkur, Heljo Pikhof Indrek as alternate member of Saare, I, as well as Taavi Rõivas and Vilja Toomas. The Commission decided to make one amendment to the draft, an analogous proposal, as in the previous draft. It was decided to formulate the second sentence of point 1 as one member from each political group. Perhaps once again, the word 'parity' was replaced by this wording for reasons of clarity. In addition, the Commission reviewed the linguistic changes made by the language editor and approved the second reading text. The commission, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has decided that when the first reading of the draft is concluded on 27 May, the Assembly will be invited to conclude the second reading of the draft and to hold a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U106	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U107	Thank you. Good waitress! One of the topics discussed in the committee during the discussion of this point was that the committee with exactly the same name and supposedly the same content was also in the previous Riigikogu, and the members of the committee politely raised doubts about the effectiveness of this committee's work. What is the basis on which you believe that if we do this committee again, then now the results will come and the Commission, which in the previous composition did not resolve the population crisis, even though there was a very great ambition, is now able to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U108	Thank you for your question. I very much liked when Aadu Black, when he was at the top, said that the importance of setting up a problem committee or a special committee is due to the fact that this is a problem that needs to be stressed, a strong approach; it is not just perhaps a normal job, but it emphasises the utmost importance of a particular problem for Parliament. It is true that, even in the previous period, this Commission has worked. I understood from the good speech by Mr Randper that if the Commission did not deliver a good enough result in advance, we could conclude from this that we can now forget about this problem at all, not deal with it any more and leave it to the end. We think it's probably not quite right. This is a very important problem. We sincerely hope that we really hope that this extraordinarily important task will find a more effective approach this time and also a more positive solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U109	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U110	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a simple question. What good is this Commission? What must be the result when the previous similar Commission was unable to do anything? How do you determine whether this committee has been successful in its work? What is the benefit of this and what will improve in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U111	Thank you for your question. This is an analogous question, which is being asked to the current government, about the benefits of such a government. The future will show. As I said, asking what is the benefit of the Commission, which has not even started working, is perhaps a little premature.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U112	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U113	Thank you. In my speech on the previous item, I highlighted climate change as a very important problem for both the world and Estonia. Are you prepared to confirm from this speaker that climate change is a serious problem, that it needs to be addressed and perhaps even to propose some sort of special committee? That's one. Secondly, I made a few phone calls and found out what is the cost of the committee to be set up, both on the previous item and on this item. Are you prepared to confirm, as the lead manager of the draft, that the creation of this committee will entail a cost of EUR 100000 per year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U114	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, on setting up a Committee on Climate Change. I believe that you can make such a proposal, and if it is good enough and topical enough, so that Parliament agrees with the creation of such a committee, then it has been resolved. But I will not give my assurance to this cost you have claimed, 100,000, because this fact has not been discussed by the Commission. All I can confirm is that I haven't discussed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U115	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U116	Thank you. My question relates to a number of interesting speeches that I have heard here in the last few minutes. First of all, I wanted to say thank you to Taavi Clothes. In essence, you have now admitted that it is only in recent years that the government has started to deal seriously with this problem. Secondly, are there really people who think that it is possible to solve population problems in two years? I don't think that's the case. We must give such committees more time than we want to see a real result.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U117	Thank you for your help, because I did not find a direct question in the speech. Yes, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U118	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U119	Thank you. I can inform you, Mr. Repinski, that this matter has been dealt with throughout human history. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But did the Committee on Constitutional Affairs examine the results of the work of the previous Commission? The previous Riigikogu judged this work to be a complete failure and this result coincided exactly with what we said during the formation of this committee. Did you compare the stenograms and the conclusions that were drawn two years after the Commission had put the instruments in the bag?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U120	Thank you for your question. We will certainly come to the conclusions in the future, but this composition of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not, as I understood at the moment, look directly at the work of the previous Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U121	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It can be said that you are consistent: you are here again and the new Commission is at issue again. However, when it comes to the effectiveness of the work of these committees, given that the Commission with exactly the same name was in the previous composition, I do not quite agree with those who say that there was no result at all in this committee's work. I listened yesterday to the Prime Minister who was here on the remote, and it was clear that there were results. The result was that the Prime Minister was surprised that too much parental benefit had to be paid out. This shows that the work of this committee clearly has an impact. The government is surprised that we could have more children and should have more children, which is why the budget is in difficulties. Do you not consider the preparation for the formation of one committee to be incomplete if you are prepared to acknowledge from this platform that you did not even examine what was the result of the work of the previous Commission, and are not familiar with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U123	Thank you. I don't think it's incomplete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U124	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I have received the answer to this question as to why these special committees are being set up, actually from the beginning of your speech. You referred to Aadu Black, whom I respect very much, and said that special committees would be set up to highlight the importance of the problem. Could the special committee also have the objective of resolving this problem, or is the objective already being achieved simply by setting up a special committee and thus highlighting the importance and importance of the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U126	Thank you for your question. It was, yes, perhaps an imprecise indication. Indeed, it cannot be treated in such a way that, when such a special committee is set up, the only important task is to emphasise the importance of the problem. Absolutely not. We still expect a certain result, which should come in time and which should be able to be assessed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U127	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U128	Thank you. Since there were also questions in the Commission on how to define precisely the population crisis, is the problem primarily of being born too little, or is our population too shrinking, or, as some of the members of the Commission thought, that too many people are moving in here for us, or that the population of our country is growing too much, do I understand that this committee is needed primarily in order for the coalition parties to reach consensus among themselves on what this population crisis really is about? Or can you tell me what this population crisis is like by you or by the definition of government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U129	Thank you for your question. It is certainly not the Commission that has been set up, and it is not intended to achieve any kind of consensus between themselves. In fact, no one is arguing about the existence of this population crisis, at least I expect no one to argue, and the aim of setting up a committee on the population crisis is still to find solutions. These objectives have been defined, they are also set out in sufficient detail in the explanatory memorandum, which shows that this is not a talk of reaching such a consensus using your words. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U130	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U131	Thank you. Good waitress! Maybe you had a chance to consult. I ask the same question I asked about the previous draft decision. This is precisely the same wording, the second sentence of point 1 of the draft decision says that one member of each political group belongs to the Commission. What happens if a group does not appoint a member?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U132	Indeed, I must answer by analogy that I do not imagine this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U133	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U134	Thank you. I need to refresh my memory again. That was indeed mentioned in the Commission, and my own question to Mr White was why he is so convinced that this new Commission will be able to reach some conclusion or some kind of decision. Everyone was optimistic. But why didn't we discuss the work of the previous Commission? There is a simple reason for this: the final report in such a way that it could have been brought to the big hall last time, the Commission simply could not write it down. We had nothing to discuss, because it was a blank piece of paper, it did not even fit to discuss in this Chamber what we would then have discussed in that committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U135	I would like to thank you for this remark and I hope that it will help to avoid questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U136	Signe Riisalo.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U137	Thank you. First of all, according to the reply, I do not believe that the name of this committee is appropriate in any way to the Committee on the Population Crisis. The crisis is a drastic change that has already taken place, we are looking for solutions, we have not prevented the crisis. Today we could talk about preventing the crisis, but that is why. I am more concerned about the fact that the government has decided to create an additional ministerial position in the Ministry of the Interior to deal with demographic policy issues. This ministerial portfolio has not yet been furnished, as I understand it, but certainly, as far as I understand it, family policy, which is also clearly linked to the work and activities of this committee. How rational is it in the end that we are spending both at government level and at the level of the Riigikogu, and in one format or another we do not really see clarity? People do not understand what Minister Solman is going to do and, in fact, our Riigikogu does not understand what this committee is going to show us when it comes, all the more so as the awkward situation was seen in the previous composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U138	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U139	What's the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U140	Thank you for your question. I am really sad to admit, but the debate on the Minister's point of action in the Commission did not seem to have any way of dealing with it. As far as this basically philosophical discussion is concerned, whether we have this crisis or not, and whether the name of this committee should be the same or the other way round, it may not be very important in this context. I would remind you that the original name was the establishment of the Riigikogu Problem Committee to resolve the population crisis. This current name, the Committee on Trouble with the Population Crisis, is simply more oral, clear and understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U141	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U142	Good manager! Good waitress! I remember similar disputes from the previous Riigikogu. But would it not make sense, instead of these 'language' and 'population crisis' problem committees, to create a single Commission, in this case the 12th permanent one? Let's call it the Preamble Committee. This is actually the most important issue, how one or the other draft affects the sustainability of the Estonian population, the stupid word, I'm sorry! .. or transfer to business in Estonian. Can we put these two things together and set up the 12th Commission? These other 11 committees, the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on National Defence, the Committee on Legal Affairs, etc., are rather pointless if there are no people speaking in Estonian, and that is so forever.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U143	Thank you for your question. I personally support this idea in every way possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U144	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will now paraphrase what you said to Mr Kallas, which you said in response to Mr Kallas, that you are not imagining this situation. Indeed, we did not imagine, until the day before yesterday, a situation in which a science finance agreement was signed, but that agreement was not honoured, in essence, the signature will be withdrawn after the elections. Indeed, apparently there are new times and new customs, there is nothing to do. But one fact question for you. The answer lies in one book, which apparently was handed over to you on your first day of work and entitled 'Fact Perfection'. How do we even have the population in the world at the moment, what is the world's population, how fast is it growing, what is this trend and what is the world's population in 2100?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U146	Thank you for this question. This book is on my nightstand, but I haven't been able to read it yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U147	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U148	Thank you. Mr. Woodland! I was looking for what you have done in this area before, and I found an article in the Estonian Päevaleht, where you say that a criminal organisation called the Centre Party must be dissolved. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] One similar organisation was really disbanded, it was a problem committee for solving the population crisis. The Centre Party is still here, but the Centre Party made this commission. At least something has happened as a result of your work. I assure you that humanity has done this thing where children come from before. But what did this last commission discover in two years, which the Estonian state does not yet know, what members of the Riigikogu do not know, what scientists do not know? What is the one point that this committee has made, apart from adding a salary to itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U149	Thank you for your question. I must now rely again on the reply of the esteemed Vilja Toomast. The answer to you is practically there: this commission did not discuss or analyse the activities of the previous committee, because there was no one to discuss or analyse. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U150	Thank you. Kaja Kallas, do you have a procedural question? No, it's not. Two questions can be asked. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U151	Thank you. I would like to say, as an introduction, that as hypocritical and greedy a coalition as this one I have never seen before, even over the trumps of the previous coalition. But I'll help you with one answer you owed Kaja Kallas before. Echo asked what would happen if there was no representative of each political group on this committee. In that case, it will not happen to the Commission. My appeal is to these political groups here in the Riigikogu, who still have a little sense of reason and responsibility, not to mention your representatives, including the Reform Party, maybe also soccer, even though they have all escaped, but maybe they will read the verbatim and discover that this is a good idea. Do not mention your representative there, the Commission and not the committee discussed on the previous agenda, because there was exactly the same clause in it. Then these committees cannot be born according to your own rules. Do you share my point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U152	Thank you. I would rather say that I understand that, in this case, there is a call that, although there are important issues before our country, important problems and some politicians find that they also need to be resolved, emphatically resolved through the problem committee, on the other hand, the opposition calls for us to stop, there are no problems, let us disperse, let us not do these committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U153	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U154	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! To avoid the same fate as the previous Commission, whose report cannot be read and assessed on the basis of it, please tell us what are the one or two-to-three things that we can hear from here today through your mouth as an objective by which we will be able to assess the success or failure of this committee in the future, provided that this Commission is still being created.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U155	Thank you. The question, you might even say, that a warning is actually very correct. Indeed, when the period is over and we expect some kind of report, we expect some result so that this time it will definitely exist. I hope that's the way it is. But right now, I don't want to start predicting exactly what it is and what it's going to look like, because it's just unfair and probably wrong. This is the area of prophecy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U156	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I have a huge request to you that you still once imagine a situation in which the Reform Party, for example, does not present its representative to this Committee on Problems. This is not a very difficult task. In this case, will the Commission not be formed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U158	Thank you. I can't imagine this situation, I'm stressing it for the third time, and I don't want to imagine it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U159	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U160	I can imagine this situation because you yourself have made such a set of rules. But I've gotten smarter sometimes, and I have to fix myself. I said I haven't seen a coalition as hypocritical and greedy as this. In the meantime, it was made clear to me that the coalition of the United Party had been even worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U161	I'm sorry, I didn't understand again if there was no question or if it was a question. Was the question whether we were hypocritical? Was that the question? [[Voices in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U162	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? There's no call. This draft has also been presented... I'm sorry! Yes, Jaak Madison, speaking from the floor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My speech is so short that I am not going in front of it. But I can imagine very well when one political group decides not to present its Member to the Committee on Problems, because the draft states that this is a right, not an obligation. As a result, there may still be situations where a group cannot find a competent person to deal with problems that are very serious. The other four Members will wait and go on with the work until this one political group also finds a suitable person and appoints him as a member of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U164	Thank you. Echo Kallas, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U165	It's going to be a procedural dispute. If the draft says that one member of each political group belongs to the Commission, it is not legally related, but says that there must be one member of each political group. This is the basis for the functioning of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U166	Since this question has been through here several times, I will try to explain it. This situation is not precisely regulated by the Home and Working Procedures Act. It is therefore up to the board to decide. In this case, the Governing Board shall have the possibility and obligation to set up the Commission on a different basis. [[Voices in the hall.]] Thank you. Please, who has a procedural question? Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U167	The procedure also includes me being first in line. So please watch it! I wanted to say the same thing as Kaja and I want to argue with you, dear Helir-Valdor Seeder. On the board, you will take decisions in a consensual manner. This text, which you have made in this case, must amend this draft decision. There is no mention of volunteering here; it is said that there is a representative from each group. If you do not reach an agreement in the Bureau on other bases, such a committee will not be created. I recommend not only to one political group, but I will repeat once again to two political groups, because there is also a soccer: do not put your representative in the committee, and let the coalition stick with it if it wants.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U168	It makes no sense for us to continue this argument because we do not base our case here on assumptions. We will set up this committee today, then we will see if the political groups will present their representatives, and we will come back to this question when we have a clear picture. There is no point in dealing with speculations in this big hall today. So, ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the agenda. Kalle Palling, is it a procedural question? Speaking in a position. Please, speak up! A microphone for Kalle Balling.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U169	Thank you. My speech is quite short, too, as Mr Madison did, and I am mainly speaking as a result of his speech. In particular, I call on all my fellow Members, who belong to committees dealing with the prevention of the population crisis. I think these committees are in the majority of the Riigikogu, they are committees that have something to do with people feeling confident about having children. Indeed, these issues can be included on the agenda of permanent committees, because I dare say that the agendas of the committees have been rather narrow lately. We have committees working hours on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, and it is also possible to hold extraordinary sessions. So all the issues that we are discussing on this item and which we discussed on the previous item can be dealt with at meetings of permanent committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U170	Mr Pevkur, please speak up.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U171	As the procedure went on here, the President of the sitting, as well as the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, really is that the draft decision that we have on the table, says in point 1, that one member of the committee belongs to each political group. In this sense, if the political groups do not submit a candidate, it cannot be set up by the Bureau of the Commission. There is therefore nothing to be done. Will the Bureau take a break and ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to meet, or can we not take this decision now? We can also adopt it, in this sense there is no problem, but then it will depend on the political groups whether or not they will be nominated. It is not a group right; it is here imperatively written that one member of each group. Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U172	I still have to explain to the big hall, so I don't go along with the mistakes that have happened here. At the moment, we are setting up a Commission and whether one or the other political group is presenting its specific candidate, we will see later. Then you can come back to it, there is no other way to deal with it. So please, Members of the Riigikogu, let us not mislead the large hall and let us not continue the discussion on this subject. After we have set up the Commission, we cannot let go. Let's keep going. A procedural question, Taavi Clothe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U173	Good manager! It is still very important in this sense that we all understand in the same way what we decide and what we do not decide. If the President of the sitting says that if there is a situation where a political group does not present its representative, in which case the Bureau would be able to set up a committee on a different basis than that provided for in the draft, then I do not understand how the board can take the authority to take the decision of the Riigikogu against the current decision of the Riigikogu in a different combination of the committee. Please explain what legislation you are relying on, if you say so. Or was your initial statement wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U174	It wasn't wrong. The Management Board of the Riigikogu does not make any decisions contrary to the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act; it still follows the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. So if it is not possible to form this committee in such composition, it is always possible for the Riigikogu to set up a problem committee on a different basis, based on the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. For this purpose, the Governing Board shall have its own procedures and decision-making powers. So, under the Home and Working Procedures Act, we will be able to set up a Committee on Problems on a different basis than what has been proposed today. But I say once again that there is no point in dealing with conjecture, there is a specific draft in the Chamber today that complies with the Home and Working Procedures Act, there is no shortage, and we can proceed with it calmly. What one group or another will decide in the future, we will see then, and we will proceed accordingly. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, speak up!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U175	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear colleagues and people who follow us online and do not understand the problem! First of all, a little clarification for Kalle Palling: it is also Friday that we have a working day and the committees are meeting together. Kalle, the European Union Affairs Committee works on Fridays, and I think that if you have the will, you can also use Friday. Now, people, many of whom are also voters of different political parties! The idea that the Estonian language and population problems are not a problem for them is still in the air today from the Reform Party. They claim here that they will not appoint their own representative to this committee. I can tell all of you that the Reform Party has not withdrawn from its electoral promises, they are simply dispersing branches right now. I don't know why they're stretching that tire, maybe because it's Thursday and a lot of people on the week end. In the committees, however, they appoint these people completely calmly, because they cannot tell their constituents that we do not have problems with the Estonian language or with the population. There are problems, and so do they.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U176	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U177	Actually, I almost have a question for the board. Interestingly, if some political groups do not appoint their own members, will the Bureau remain free to appoint a member of this group to the committee, in so far as the Commission needs another member?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U178	Thank you for your question. No, there is no such freedom in the Bureau, it can only be a group proposal. Toomas Kivimägi, speaking from the floor?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U179	No, actually, a procedural question for the manager.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U180	A procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U181	You actually expressed your authority in two different ways. At first you said that the Board of the Riigikogu has the right to set up a commission on a second basis, in answer to the last question of Taavi Rõivas, you said that the Riigikogu has the right to form a second basis. Which one did you mean? Secondly, if this right is vested in the board, it would be a request to explain what the other basis is. It seems to me that we are suddenly doing a completely empty job here, in fact, the board has more power than the great hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U182	The Management Board is part of the Riigikogu, so the Management Board has its own procedures for this. Of course, this committee is made up of a large hall of the Riigikogu. Kristen Michal, speaking from the floor?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U183	A procedural question. I will ask my parent and wiser colleague for advice on what to think about in such a situation. While it is said outside that there is no money for R &amp; D, and here we are solving the issue of the wages of four people with these committees, what do you think if some groups do not appoint their representatives to these committees, would it be possible to reduce this salary proportionally? We'd stick together a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U184	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U185	I thought I'd come to the festivities after all. Perhaps some of my colleagues were not in the Chamber during the debate on the previous item. I also stress: when it comes to Estonian and that Estonian is taught in Estonia so that people can speak Estonian in Estonia, and that it is a problem now, we can understand that completely. As far as the population crisis is concerned, the previous waitress also failed to answer the question of what the population crisis is. We know from the time of the previous composition, which was also admitted by the rapporteur, that the committee in question had no result, and that it had no benefit whatsoever. We do not fight against solving problems in any way if these problems exist, but we do not agree with the setting up of problem committees that will simply entail additional costs, but no revenue. For example, let us look at the teaching of Estonian. Experts are needed to develop these plans, and there are certainly no experts at this level in the Riigikogu. So these are two different things. Please don't put them together! We call on everyone not to support the formation of these committees of concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U186	Thank you. Since Kalle Palling's name was mentioned in the negotiations, he has the right to say the line. Would you like a word? A mike for Kalle Balling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U187	Thank you. Since Mr Kruusimägi mentioned my name, I must once again specify what we are talking about. We are talking about the cost of setting up committees 100,000 + 100,000. This is very serious. In front of this house, it's being said that the science money is disappearing, that we've collected several signatures to raise the pay of rescuers and police officers. But now the feast is being held in complete numbness during the plague. In a situation where all ministries have been given the task of cutting costs by about 10%, it does not make sense to create additional posts only for members of the Riigikogu. We know from past experience that this so-called staff, this technical staff, will be taken at the expense of other committees. So we're still talking about a dull waste here, not that the subjects are not important. The topics are very important, but there are still these issues, as colleagues Jürgen Ligi and Kristen Michal have mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U188	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, since your name was mentioned in the negotiations, you have the right to say the line.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U189	I just wanted to say that my name wasn't just mentioned. That's the procedural remark. We've been messed up before. Toomas Kruusimägi, who is the director of Tallinn's English College, and Tarmo Kruusimäe are two completely different people, but from time to time it is said that Tarmo Kruusimägi and Toomas Kruusimäe. Toomas Kruusimäe is my father, who is unfortunately the manal man, and Tarmo Kruusimägi is not in this hall, here is Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U190	Thank you, Tarmo Kruusimäe! Well, then, ladies and gentlemen, we're precise when we say names. Jürgen Ligi, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U191	No, it's not. It's my name. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U192	The negotiations were not mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U193	Yes, they did!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U194	That was for the previous bill. [[Laughter in the hall. Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U195	No, Kalle Palling just named me.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U196	Colleagues! Jürgen Ligi, I have a letter, whose names were mentioned in the previous draft proceedings, I can read: Jürgen Ligi, Jaak Madison, Signe Kivi, Aadu Black, Heidy Purga and Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U197	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U198	That's all they said. Your name was not mentioned in the proceedings on this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U199	But right now, Kalle Palling called me, he attacked me, he named me. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Now I demand a word. I'm not making up what I want to say right now. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But I can tell you that Tarmo Kruus Hills never confuses anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U200	Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to the bill. The negotiations are over. One amendment to the draft has been tabled. It has been presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as a lead committee and the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was fully taken into account. We can go to the final vote on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of a "Trouble Committee for Resolution of the People's Crisis" submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Isamaa. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 22 against and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U201	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' (17 OE) submitted by the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. I ask Marko Mihkelson, vice-chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to serve as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As always at the beginning of every new Riigikogu, we need to bring about parliamentary external delegations. The first such draft decision concerns the delegation of the Riigikogu to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. On 6 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the principles for setting up this delegation and asked the political groups to propose candidates. The Commission also proposed that our basic delegations, including a delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, be formed in such a way that each political group would be a member there. On 13 May, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the proposals received and decided to set up the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in the following composition of the Estonian delegation: Kadri Simson, Head of Delegation, Ants Laaneots and Sven Sester, as well as alternate members Leo Kunnas and Sven Mikser. Consensual decisions were taken jointly: the Bureau was invited to send the draft on Thursday, 30 May on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu and the rapporteur was appointed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U203	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. As there were no amendments to the draft, we can go straight to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, I will final vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 65 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the decision, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U204	We will go to today's last item on the agenda, the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Establishment of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' (18 OE) submitted by the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu. Mr Marko Mihkelson, vice-president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft establishes the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. On 6 May, we asked the political groups to present the candidates, and on 13 May at the Commission meeting, we endorsed the delegation as proposed. The delegation is chaired by Mart Nutt, members Kerstin-Oudekki Loone and Heljo Pikhof, and alternate members Johannes Kert and Anti Poolamets. We made a procedural decision to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by today, 30 May, and we appointed a speaker here as rapporteur. The establishment of the delegation was supported by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-30_U206	Thank you. There are no questions for the rapporteur, no requests from colleagues, no amendments to the draft were tabled. We can go to the final vote. Can we go to the vote? On the basis of § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Homes, I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe" submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs 18. Please take a stand and vote. 63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken. Thank you, good members of the Riigikogu. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 12.01 p.m.
