ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 9th working week Tuesday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U2	Following the end of the mandate of Mart Nut, member of the Riigikogu, Siim Valmar Kiisler, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, joined the Riigikogu on 4 June. Next, we will hear his oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U3	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U4	Today we also have the opportunity to hear the oath of office of two members of the Supreme Court. First, please send a speech chair to Kaupo Paali, member of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U5	Honourable Riigikogu! I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U6	Now I ask Kai Kullerkupu, Member of the Supreme Court, to take a vow of office.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U7	I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U8	And now the members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U9	Mr. President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Reform Party Group proposes to make one addition to the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. According to this, there would be hearings of ministers in the Riigikogu. This means that each member of the government should report once a year to the Riigikogu on the situation, problems, solutions and plans of their area of responsibility. Members of the Riigikogu can ask questions and comment on the situation of the Minister's responsibilities. Our proposal would slightly improve the balance between the government and the Riigikogu, which would give members of the Riigikogu one additional opportunity to participate in matters of state and the minister more opportunities to involve the support of members of the Riigikogu in his activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U10	There are no more requests for referrals of drafts and enquiries. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board, and the Riigikogu's Management Board deals with it on the basis of the law. Messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the Special Needs Sports and Movement Support Group, convened by Indrek Saar. Incoming check, please! 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U11	Let's go to today's agenda. We have three items on the agenda. The first of these is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Before we go to that, I will briefly introduce the procedure. First, the Chancellor of Justice of Ülle Madise will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes, then Jaak Madison, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes. Thirdly, Jaanus Karilaiu, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will be speaking for up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask each of the rapporteurs one oral question. After presentations and a round of questions and answers, there is a round of negotiations where representatives of all committees and political groups can participate, as well as all members of the Riigikogu. Following the negotiations, a final vote will be taken, with a majority of votes in favour required for the adoption of the proposal. We go to the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. I'm asking for Chancellor Ülle Madise as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U12	Honourable Riigikogu! Good manager! Today's concern is that the victim of the misdemeanour does not have the right to access the misdemeanor file, even after the decision has been made. This, in turn, means that if, for example, he has fallen victim to a traffic accident or theft of less value, it will be extremely difficult for him to turn to a civil court to compensate for the damage. In the course of the settlement of a misdemeanour in a county court, there is no decision on the amount, occurrence or compensation of the damage. If the case is dealt with in criminal proceedings, the person has the right of access to the file. Two years ago, the Riigikogu tried to solve this problem, but at the time, the solution remained incomplete. The fact that the victim of a misdemeanour is able to examine the case after the case has been closed and to find out the name and address of the cause of the damage to him, is not really enough to go to a civil court. The situation is particularly tragic when, for example, a person has suffered health damage in a traffic accident. Whether this damage has been assessed as serious or less serious depends on how it is handled and whether a person can also file civil claims for damages. The contradiction with the Constitution is particularly clear here, because the health expert report has been drawn up precisely for the same person, but it is not possible for him to see it at any stage. In my opinion, the situation described is contrary to § 13 (1), § 14, § 15 (1), § 25 and § 44 (3) of the Constitution in conjunction with them. In short, § 25 states that everyone has the right to apply to the courts for compensation for damage caused by anyone, § 44 (3) states that everyone has the right to receive information from the State about him, except in certain cases there is a short list that does not come into play in this case, § 13 states that a person has the right to the protection of the state and the law, § 14 states that if a person has been granted a right, there must also be a procedure for exercising that right in real life, and § 15 states that everyone has the right to apply to the courts for the protection of his or her rights. In summary, the state currently has information gathered in misdemeanour proceedings. A person who was harmed by a misdemeanor would need this information to go to a civil court and claim damages, but the state simply does not give it. Honourable Riigikogu! I ask that the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure be brought into line with the Constitution and that the victim also be given the right of access to the file. As we have always verified whether this proposal is also reasonably enforceable. Specialists in the Ministry of Justice confirmed that it is reasonably enforceable and does not impose excessive administrative costs. I thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs for a very thorough and meaningful debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U13	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Would you also comment on this introduction, in addition to your letter's end recommendation, to consider the possibility of eliminating the difference between the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, etc.? I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U15	Thank you very much for your question. The Riigikogu has several options to solve this problem and, as usual, we are not trying to tell the Riigikogu in advance what should be done and how to do it. We are trying to keep the line that we will never come before you, honourable Riigikogu, with a proposal that cannot reasonably be met. That is why it has been mentioned that there are at least two options. One is this: like criminal proceedings, to give the victim a role in misdemeanour proceedings. If, for example, a bicycle of EUR 190 was stolen or injured in a traffic accident, this procedure would also be a victim and would then be able to consult the file on an ongoing basis. For example, to check that the medical expertise is correct. Because, unfortunately, there have also been cases where a person has lost a foot in an accident, but this has not been regarded as serious health damage and has been treated as a misdemeanour. No material has been given to a person, so it is extremely difficult for a person who has lost a foot and, in fact, who has lost a lot of work and quality of life, to apply for even some compensation to improve his or her life. The second option is to give a person the right of access to the file, after the procedure has been completed, not to make the victim a party to the proceedings, but to give him access to the file, that is the difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U16	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U17	Thank you. I believe that this is undoubtedly the right proposal, but I am asking over the same thing that I asked in the Commission. In cases where information about third parties is collected in criminal proceedings, which does not concern the particular case, and the victim examines this information, this is a serious breach of privacy, which may also be unprofessional in relation to the scope of the whole procedure? Does it not seem to you that this could be a serious offense that could be considered in realising this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U18	Thank you very much. Of course, it would be a pleasure to think about it. This issue is broader and concerns both criminal and misdemeanour proceedings. The question is, what is being collected and stored in the first place, i.e. how much material is left in the file that is not really relevant, but later on, becoming public could cause damage and suffering to the third person, who, for example, accidentally remained in the surveillance camera's picture or whose phone call was eavesdropped. This is certainly an important issue, and we have raised this in the past. Indeed, if, for example, a person is called by a suspect or accused of a crime, perhaps there is something else being spoken about in passing, the other party does not need to read about it later, for example, in the newspaper, because he was accidentally on the phone with a person who was suspected. That's right. As has been said, these problems are common in misdemeanour and criminal proceedings. It has now been resolved that if a person can access the file, of course, what he sees there, but what does not concern him and whose disclosure would be mere revenge or entertainment, he must not transmit. This should also be the case in misdemeanour proceedings. It is absolutely right to raise the problem and, if there is any way to protect the privacy and interests of outsiders, it must certainly be done. However, this is already a bit of a separate issue and a broader issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U19	Your Honor, Chancellor! No further questions for you. Thank you. Now I request Mr Jaak Madison, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This issue was addressed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its meeting on 3 June, including Jaak Madison, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone, Hanno Pevkur, Paul Puustusmaa, Indrek Saar and Vilja Toomas. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, Counsellor of the Legal Order Protection Department of the Chancellor of Justice Marju Agarma and advisers of the Criminal Law and Procedure Department of the Ministry of Justice Einar Hillep and Markus Kärner were invited. Ülle Madise introduced the problem at length and in depth, just as she did here today in her presentation. Markus Kärner, the representative of the Ministry of Justice, said that in 2017 the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure was amended on the initiative of the Government of the Republic, inter alia, in order to allow persons who have been harmed by a misdemeanour to have access to the settlements made in the misdemeanour proceedings and to have access to the name of the person who caused the damage, as this would allow for a claim against the cause of the damage, if necessary. However, the original wording of the draft in question would have given the victim the right to have access to decisions on him in the misdemeanour proceedings. The Estonian Bar Association also drew attention to the fact that not all solutions may be made in the form of a decision. The Estonian Bar Association expressed its opinion and, therefore, the draft was amended in the Riigikogu during the procedure so that the person who suffered material damage due to misdemeanour and his representative have the right to examine the decisions made after the extra-judicial judge has settled the misdemeanour. Mr Kärner said that the victim would be able to defend his rights in civil proceedings by collecting data collected in misdemeanour proceedings. However, this is difficult if the name of the cause of the injury is not known. The court may also, at the request of a party, apply preliminary evidence before the opening of proceedings for a period of legal proceedings or for good reason. As a member of the Commission, Andrei Korobenik asked what data could be found in the victim's misdemeanour case. Marju Agarma replied that the victim only saw the final settlement, in particular its date, the identity of the person dealing with it, the circumstances and qualifications of the perpetrator and the identity of the person causing the damage. The evidence collected cannot be seen by the victim. According to the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, the victim should also have the right to access the data contained in the misdemeanour file. Mr Korobenik continued and next asked how the rights of the cause of the damage and third parties mentioned in the file would be protected. The Chancellor of Justice replied that it depends on how the right of access to the victim's file is formulated. In formulating the provision, account must be taken of the fact that this does not lead to a disproportionate amount of additional work for the defendant. The speaker asked for clarification as to how a situation should be resolved where, among the materials in the misdemeanour file, there are data which do not concern damage but whose disclosure could infringe the rights of the causer or third parties. Mr Kärner, of the Ministry of Justice, replied that there was a problem and that consideration could be given to the possibility of separating evidence in such a way that the relevant information would remain hidden from the victim. In criminal matters, third-party statements and other information are also visible to the victim. If evidence shows that, at the same time, the cause of the damage, other than committing a misdemeanour, infringes, for example, public order, it is inevitable that the data will also be accessible to the victim. Paul Puustusmaa asked whether the problem would be solved by changing the wording of the provision of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure in such a way as to enable the injured person to access the file instead of the settlement of the misdemeanour. Markus Kärner replied that the amendment should include a temporal definition and said that he thought it would be better for the victim to have access to the misdemeanour file after the misdemeanour had been resolved. Lastly, Mr Korobenik asked whether the disclosure of the cause of the damage and of third party data to the victim in the misdemeanour file was in accordance with the Constitution, according to the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice replied that the victim usually has a representative to advise the victim to make the right decisions when he goes to court. If the victim had access to sensitive data published in the misdemeanour file, he should use that information only for the purpose of claiming damages. If the victim is wrong, this may have severe legal consequences, as the person causing the damage and the third party can also protect their rights in such a situation. That concludes the debate in the Commission. Decisions. It was proposed to appoint Mr Jaak Madison (consensually) as rapporteur and to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal (also a consensual decision). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U21	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I now ask Jaanus Karilaidi, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U22	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs met on 4 June. The meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs was attended by the speaker, Marek Jürgenson, Kaja Kallas, Uno Kaskpeit, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Rein Suurkask and Urve Tiidus. We had asked Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, Senior Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice Marju Agarma, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice Tanel Kalmet and Adviser Markus Kärner and Chief Order Guard Officer Ele Nuka. The Chancellor of Justice gave the same meaningful overview of the problem as today before Parliament. There were some specific questions, many of which overlapd with these questions and answers, which were also in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Committee on Legal Affairs made a consensual decision to support the proposal expressed by the Chancellor of Justice in his letter of 29 May 2019 and to appoint Jaanus Karilaid as rapporteur. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U23	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you either. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 80 members of the Riigikogu and was not opposed or impartial. The proposal was supported. In accordance with § 152 of the Law and Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu, I instruct the Legal Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U24	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled " Appointment of the members of the Board of the Guarantee Fund' presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U25	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft on 6 June. Pursuant to subsections 7 (1) (1) and 10 (1) of the Guarantee Fund Act and its decision of 28 May 2019, the Finance Committee submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu proposing that Dmitri Dmitrijev and Aivar Sõerd be appointed members of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund. The candidates for membership have given written consent to their appointment as a member of the Supervisory Board and have confirmed in writing their compliance with the requirements laid down in the Guarantee Fund Act for a member of the Supervisory Board. For information, the purpose of the Guarantee Fund is to ensure the protection of the funds placed by the clients of the institution, the clients of the investment institution and the unit-holders of the mandatory pension fund, thereby increasing the reliability and stability of the financial sector. The highest governing body of the Guarantee Fund is the Council, whose two out of nine members are appointed by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Monetary Commission. The mandate of a member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Riigikogu shall continue until the term of office of the member of the Riigikogu is suspended or terminated. Due to the end of the mandate of the XIII Riigikogu, the powers of the members of the Guarantee Fund appointed by the Riigikogu ended. The member of the Supervisory Board appointed by the Riigikogu will continue his activities until the appointment of the new member. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: appoint a rapporteur and propose to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U26	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Appointing Members of the Board of the Guarantee Fund' submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the decision, no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U27	Today's third item: The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa. The rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U28	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Isamaa Group, the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the Estonian Central Party was discussed by the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu on 4 June and 6 June. All representatives and experts from market participants and stakeholders were invited to the meeting on 4 June. A total of 14 relevant organisations were represented, starting with alcohol producers and ending with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Association of Doctors. The debate was hot and there were different perceptions. A representative of the Estonian Medical Association did not support the reduction of alcohol excise duties; he did not consider it right. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs pointed out the need to contribute more to reducing and preventing alcohol-related harm. The sales of products could reduce the volume of packaging and alcohol content in products, provide more information and prevention and increase access to treatment with more funding. The other stakeholders considered it necessary to reduce excise duties and confirmed that, if necessary, they would be able to cope if the draft were to enter into force as a law on 1 July 2019. The deadline for amendments was 5 June, with 22 proposals in total. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, if some of the amendments are the same and are essentially related, they are included in the list of amendments as a single proposal. In this context, ten amendments were tabled. They were reviewed by the Commission on 6 June. The Commission was unable to support the development of the draft as new topics for electricity and tobacco excise and tobacco law issues. This is because the debate on legislative changes on this issue is ongoing in the ministries and the Commission agreed to come back to it in the autumn. If these issues had been taken aside at the moment, there should certainly have been a debate and a proposal for improvement. The Commission also did not support the inclusion of a provision on the ex-post analysis of the implementation of the legislative amendments resulting from the draft. Nor did we support an increase in the production rate for small beer producers in order to apply the excise benefit and the proposal to automatically transfer part of the excise duty on alcohol and tobacco to the health insurance fund. The Commission took consensual decisions: to propose a draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 11 June and, when the second reading is closed, to carry out the third reading on 13 June. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U29	Thank you. You have questions too. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U30	Thank you. Good waitress! First of all, it bowed down for the fact that it was finally acknowledged that alcohol duty was excessive in 2017. But now, when we look at these rates of excise duty, we see that both beer and wine still remain much higher than, for example, the level at the beginning of 2017. The rate of excise duty on beer remains more than one and a half times as compared to the beginning of 2017. However, we know that KPMG has offered a completely different rate in its analysis in order to eliminate border trade at the southern border. Why were such rates reached, and can this analysis ever be seen?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U31	Thank you for a good question. I guess in making all the decisions, you have to look at what the neighbors do. When this bill came to the hall, it was a great fear that all the neighbors would also lower their alcohol excises. It is now clear that the new Finnish government, on the contrary, will raise it. In the debate on the percentages under this draft, one view was that the excise duty on lean and strong alcohol is being lowered equally. The second point of departure was that this reduction should create such a situation that, in any case, border trade would not take place. The 25% fall in the excise duty on strong alcohol will bring the price the same as that on Latvian alcohol, and that gives us reason to believe that if one of the two products behind the border is at the same price as the other one, or six-pack, is only 2 euros more expensive, then this 2 euros will most likely not be driven to the southern border. For example, the leaders of the Tallink Group believe that due to this fall in excise duty, there are considerably more tourists coming from Finland to Estonia. Certainly the Finns who have sailed the ship to Riga will be travelling to Tallinn to make purchases in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U32	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In Latvia, the current strategy states that they will increase excise duties on 1 March each year, at a moderate pace. If they continue next year as they planned, their excise duty on spirits will rise to EUR 20 and 30 cents. According to the current draft, the excise duty on strong alcohol in Estonia will fall to 18 euros and 81 cents. With Latvia, there is a gap of almost EUR 1.50. Why is it necessary to create such a situation that the rate of excise duty on strong alcohol in Estonia is lower than in Latvia, when we know that it is just necessary to bring it to a level close to that of Latvia to discourage border trade? Why is it necessary to provoke Latvia in such a way that they cannot leave this step unanswered?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U34	Thank you. Good Aivar, as you know, Latvia has been following Estonia's excise policy very closely for the last two years and using it for its country in a prudent manner. Revenue that could be received by the Estonian Treasury will be received by the Latvian Treasury. When this percentage was discussed, we thought that Latvia would most likely not have a fall in spring excise duty if we did. A very foolish situation would have arisen if we had left a larger number and Latvia had made its move. Then our alcohol would still be more expensive and border trade would have continued as it has so far. As with your bill, our goal is clear: the border trade must be stopped. The most important motive for this draft is the fact that our taxes go to Latvia, but our people are being treated for the money of the Estonian taxpayer. The aim is, on the one hand, to bring a Finnish tourist back to Estonia at the northern border and, on the other hand, to eliminate border trade at the southern border.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I am, of course, seriously sorry that it took more than two years to understand the wrong decisions taken at the end of 2016. But at the same time, I am pleased that this courageous decision has finally been reached and that these mistakes are being corrected, not in the way that it should be done wisely. You repeatedly mentioned that the goal is to stop border trade at the southern border. However, when I read the explanatory memorandum, I see that only 45% of the border trade will be reduced for beer sales, i.e. 55% will remain. However, if we drink strong alcohol, its sales should decrease by 80%. Why do you prefer vodka to beer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U36	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U37	No, we don't prefer either alcohol. You know, Thomas, very well that alcohol is no good at all if you don't know how to consume it reasonably. The perceptions of the correct rates vary between politicians and political parties. Yeah, two years ago, they made a mistake. At the time, this dispute was very acute when this increase in excise duty took place. I think that many of those who voted in favour of this bill in this Chamber would not have wanted to do so. But that was the agreement and the price of this coalition. It was a mistake. That's what they're trying to fix right now, and it's good for me to talk about it here in front of you. I also issued a draft on this in January, but no group in the Committee on Monetary Affairs wanted to deal with it at that point. But now it's done.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U38	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U39	Thanks for the mistake. Except you made that mistake yourself. There's no word in person that there's been a mistake. The second mistake is when you say that it's like equal treatment. Even in this impact analysis, it is clear that basically there will be an end to buying more vodka at the border. This is definitely gonna end. But the beer's is safe. However, I was still horrified by this last Commission meeting. You said you were represented in 14 interest groups. According to my estimate, 11 of them were traders and producers who were asked that they were, after all, you support the government and do not want to pay the tax and want to sell more. Everyone said, "Yes! ' And there was no discussion. Was it a successful trial? Should this be the case for inclusion, so that taxpayers are simply asked and discussed how, when, what are the effects, will not be produced at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U40	Good Jürgen, you're trying to twist things. It wasn't like that. Of course, it bothered you that the brewers were happy with this bill. I get it, Jurgen, I get it. But in the Commission, the discussion was open to everyone. Some of the invited people didn't make it, maybe one of them would've been against reducing alcohol duty. But as chairman of the committee, I offered to tell everyone my opinion on this matter within three minutes. And in the end, they could tell whether they would support the bill or not. Half of those invited did not engage in discussion, but said that they supported the reduction of alcohol excise duties. Border trade must stop. What was the overall outcome of this hearing? Well, if some people know that they have three minutes, but they want to talk for six or ten minutes, usually the courtesy of the other people who attend the meeting is finally over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U41	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We have generally understood here that alcohol policy must in a sense be a wise balance between the risk of border trade and health risks. You have now proposed one possible option, and the impact of the amendment will be in the second half of this year, I understand that the law could apply from 1 July, but the decision is not yet EUR 12 million. Even if this debate did not exist in the Commission, do you think that we will soon come back to this issue, or will these rates now remain in force for some time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U43	I do have to admit, Urve, that it was not really discussed in the Commission whether or not there would be a return to alcohol duty in the near future. I'm sure we'll see the result this year. Today, both shops and importers have goods in stock that are subject to more expensive excise duty, they do not keep it in a warehouse where excise duty exemption applies. And there is also one amendment to this bill that we will cut off the possibility of moving alcohol out of Estonia to bring it back after 1 July if the excise duty is lower. I believe that in three or four months it will be clear what prices are on the Estonian market. And I'm sure we'll ask the Treasury every month to do a little research on retail prices. There must not be a situation where we have reduced the excise duty, but the price in the supermarket chains remains the same. At this joint meeting, all sales organisations promised that they would certainly lower the price of alcohol by at least a fall in excise duty. Tallink Group's representative promised that from 1 July the price on ships would be lower for all groups of products, at least by a fall in excise duty, and even more for some groups of products.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U44	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U45	Thank you. First of all, if the law is amended again in such a way that the impact analysis has not been properly carried out, or even vice versa, the impact analysis carried out by KPMG will be ignored, be warned that there is probably no overall positive impact. At the same time, as I said, the sympathetic thing is that you admit a mistake. And in order to understand this mistake, it should also be realised that in 2017 excise duties on beer and wine were exceptionally increased twice: 70% and 45% respectively. The contents of the error at the time were, in fact, that beer was considered the worst, that wine was also bad, and that vodka, for some reason, received preferential treatment. Now you say that all groups of goods must be treated equally. Where's the logic? Should we not go back to the pre-foul situation in order to correct the mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U46	Thank you, Tavi, for a very good question. You've been a politician for so long, you know very well how alcohol excises have risen in the last 15 years. There is no point in talking about the last two years, we should look at a longer plan. The excise duty on lean alcohol for a long time was practically not raised, only on strong alcohol. And I guess this is an emergency situation here with this bill anyway. I don't know, maybe somebody knows in the hall, but as far as I know, it hasn't happened in the Estonian country that we are cutting the excise duty. We'll raise all taxes. How quickly the results appear and what they are, we will see in six months. On the day, the flow of money from one cash register to another is not going to run. But I believe we can put a stop to border trade. After all, we also see that construction shops have made 25-30% price discounts in recent months, because otherwise people are going to Latvia to buy these goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U47	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I, too, Aivar, congratulate you on this very brave testimony that very wrong decisions were indeed made in 2016. This gives hope, even though it does not improve the level of disproportation between the excise duty on beer and spirits according to this draft. You also mentioned the relationship between health and alcohol. I couldn't find in the explanatory memorandum what the prognosis of alcohol consumption was. What effect does this bill have on alcohol consumption? If you remember, in 2016, when these wrong decisions were made, one of the goals was to reduce consumption. Paradoxically, this consumption actually increased, albeit only on average by 0.1 litres, but still increased. According to this draft, what is the forecast: will alcohol consumption in Estonia increase or decrease as a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U49	Thank you, Thomas, for this very good question. I can answer by my gut. It is likely to decrease in South Estonia, because everyone who has been shopping across the border has still bought more than normal. When a man usually bought two beers in his refrigerator by Friday, he brought two or three six-packs from Latvia, and in that case he might have a bigger thirst. I'm hoping it'll go down. Many fewer people have come from Northern Estonia to buy alcohol in Latvia and whether the new price affects the people of Tallinn and other Harjumaa, do not know. I hope that doesn't increase drinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U50	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! It is really nice to hear that you acknowledge your mistake in changing alcohol policy in 2016. But does not what is proposed in the current draft aggravate this mistake and people will still be going to the Latvian border to buy alcohol and all other goods? The revenue of the budget will be further reduced, but alcohol consumption will not decrease. In my opinion, the fall in the excise duty on strong alcohol is too great and too small for lean alcohol. This only aggravates the problem that arose in 2016 and which you think you can solve.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U52	Thank you, Annely, for a good question. You're an entrepreneur yourself. I should ask you, do you really believe that someone from Pärnu is going to drive across the Latvian border for six beers to win 2 euros? Or 24 bottles of beer? It's a question of faith. It's always been said that someone made a mistake. It should be recalled, however, that in this Chamber there are those men who, at some point in time, put VAT on service cars, which was a very serious failure. Mistakes are still being made, and I think our mistake is that we sometimes take a lot of time to admit our mistake. Is the proposed percentage correct or wrong? In the Commission, there was finally a small discussion between the liquor dealers and Jürgen, which is more important: beer or vodka, strong alcohol or lean alcohol. It's a little bit of an understanding. We have come to the conclusion that the sale of one type of alcohol must be balanced and zeroed in order to eliminate border trade; another species could have a slightly higher excise duty so that there would be more revenue for the Treasury.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U53	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When you unravel the alcohol trade studies, you will see that not one beer goes after, but on average five beer cases are taken. It is clear that the exclusion of border trade is a difficult task of optimising. The same impact analysis of the Ministry of Finance, which we received with great delay, says that after these changes the difference in the price of the beer case will be close to EUR 2, but even this analysis says that it will not fall below EUR 2. And the analysis also says that as far as beer is concerned, border trade will only decrease by 44%. That's why I'm asking you, do you see the danger that now, if we correct the old gross mistake, we're gonna make another mistake? I stress that in the last two years, beer excise has risen by 104%, strong alcohol excise duty by 15%.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U55	Thank you, Aivar! Next time you ask the same question, give me an example of how much the difference between the excise duty on strong and lean alcohol has been increased over a decade. Then we'll get a comparable picture, otherwise we'll only talk about the last two years. I really believe today that if the situation on one item is zero and on the other there is a difference between the cost of the suitcase of 2 euros and 1 cent, then everything will be fine. According to this calculation, the price difference between the five suitcases is EUR 10. I don't think anyone's going to Latvia for this 10 euro, for example, from Tartu. This fuel consumption is already higher. In Latvia, when people go there for other reasons, and when they come back, they go to the store and buy something. I have to admit, I've been to Latvia very often, and I've even been to this store, but I've never bought one.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I get the impression that you are trying to compare the dynamic increase in excise duty over the ten years with an unreasonable sharp increase in one year and somehow to justify it. Are you aware that according to WHO data, in countries with higher levels of heavy alcohol consumption due to cultural background, there are very clearly poor health indicators? If the aim of this draft is to reduce border trade, then it is completely incomprehensible why we should have vodka cheaper than Latvia. According to these proposals, what is in this bill, vodka will be less expensive in Estonia and how should it reduce border trade? If prices were equal or as experts say, our vodka would not be more than 20% more expensive, border trade would be reduced. How do you justify it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U57	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U58	Thank you, Urmas! According to the current plan, this price will remain at the same level as Latvia. If Latvia were to reduce the excise duty, this would change the other way around. I do not believe that the Latvian people would then have to buy vodka in Estonia after 2 euros so that there would be a reverse border trade. That is certainly not the purpose of this draft. Of course, unreasonable alcohol consumption is harmful to health. I have always stressed that a lot begins at home and in the family, and later it depends a lot on the working collective. Drinking alcohol is stuck in it. I believe that an Estonian person is a cultural person; most Estonian people are able to consume alcohol reasonably. A glass of wine with a meal or a birthday table shouldn't be bad or laced at a vodka funeral.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U59	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U60	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! You're talking like, I don't know, a preacher or... You're talking about your religion here, and you're making about three stupid claims in a row. I'll mention two of them. One thing is to look at a ten-year picture. I'm looking at this drawing and I'm going to round it up a little bit, but in ten years, the beer excise doubled. You doubled it in two years, that's a very big difference. The second thing is that you don't think anyone's going to Latvia to buy a couple or six beers or what it was. But no one ever said they were going after six or two. When you drive through or drive in, you buy a lot. Forward: explanatory statement. Your faith doesn't matter if the explanatory statement says that half of the beer border trade remains. How would you actually answer the question, in the light of the impact analysis, why must the border trade of beer remain and the vodka disappear? Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U61	The logic is that you don't go after one product at the border. That makes sense, Jurgen. You have your own understanding, the authors of this bill have had another understanding. Not all products need to be "zero" in order to eliminate border trade. If one product stays a little more expensive, it is likely that it will not be purchased at the border. It's only natural to buy when you're passing through. I guess we're all buying a nicer-looking bottle from abroad or something else for a present at home. It's always gonna be a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U62	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U63	Thank you. Honourable waitress! From the principle, I think it's the right thing to do. After all, this is a correction of the error that you have committed to ending border trade. This, however, is a somewhat amplified goal. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the role of alcohol duty as such is, however, to make alcohol consumption as uncomfortable as possible. However, the fall in alcohol consumption has slowed down in recent years and, as the current situation continues, consumption may increase. Therefore, I am looking at how much you decide on these rates, and I am thinking in particular of the level of strong alcohol that you have taken into account the interests of public health. Did the Commission also receive advice from health professionals?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U64	Thank you, George, for a good question. The same question would have come up with your party's draft. Yes, we had an appointment with a representative of the Medical Association who was critical. His view was that lowering alcohol duty could have bad consequences. He said one particular number: 150 more deaths a year. We hope he's wrong, even though he was very sure. We don't know, I can't tell you how much alcohol somebody's using at home. Our family doesn't use it. We have a lot of liquor bottles at home, but we don't take it. I don't know what to tell you about this. But I'm sure there's a little danger. And if you ask me, I say maybe it would have been better not to play with this subject at all, but since the border trade started to get out of hand and the person doesn't go across the border to get one thing, but buys more goods, then somehow a decent line needs to be drawn. Fortunately, entrepreneurs of construction material have understood this and construction materials are no longer driven as fast as a year ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U65	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U66	Thank you, good vice chairman. Honourable waitress! This bill is certainly a step in the right direction, but whether it is the right step, it is just becoming clear, as you yourself said when you did the presentation on the board. There have already been warnings that the proposal that we have before us today may not solve the problem of border trade. And the closure of border trade was one of the main objectives of the Reform Party when we initially proposed it. Here's my question. You said it was not a question of faith, whether the problem would be resolved or not. I would like to know that this is not a question of faith, but of analysis. If it turns out that the changes that we are facing are not sufficient and do not solve the problem of border trade, will excise policy be re-examined and revised? Can you confirm right now that this is being done?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U67	Thank you for a very good question, and especially for this very good introduction. I can only say here on my own account that if we see in a year's time that the result is not what we expected, the Committee on Monetary Affairs will retable this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U68	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have a short question and I only ask for a specific answer: yes or no. Is the processing of this bill in the Riigikogu consistent with the good practice of dealing with the bill in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U70	No answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U71	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U72	Thank you very much. Good waitress! After all, the bill we are discussing today is not about alcohol preferences, which is better, either a lace of vodka, a glass of wine or a pitcher of beer. Nor does it talk about the amount of culture. The bill is still a bill to recover taxes from Latvia. When people drive to Latvia for cheap beer, they pay excise duties on alcohol to the Latvian budget, even though this money needs to be collected in our state budget to cover the losses caused by alcohol. VAT is also collected in Latvia and the price of alcohol includes the wages and social contributions of Latvian sellers. So the tax effects are very high, and if you keep the excise duty on beer as high as you offer, these taxes will continue to remain in Latvia. If you realise in two years that the excise duty on beer is still too high, will you be willing to correct this mistake again?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U73	Thank you for a good question, but there have already been a number of questions about the same content. What I can say is that if this law does not stop border trade during the year, then it will certainly come back to this issue again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U74	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U75	Good manager! Good waitress! I am interested in what was really discussed in your committee there. Colleagues from the Reform Party think that excise duty on wine could be reduced differently and that of beer and wine. But these are the opinions of politicians. Did the opinions of the experts sound there, and when they did, how much? For example, were we talking about price elasticity? When the last coalition did this stupid thing, the Ministry of Finance officials proposed a completely wrong price elasticity coefficient for beer. Now, did you tell me what this is supposed to be like? That's exactly what I'm talking about. Ministry officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U76	Thank you for a good question. In most cases, the magnitude of the impact is almost the same if you look at the estimates from the table for the impact of 20 to 33% on the reduction of excise duty. At present, we can see from the table that 25% is optimal. But, of course, if someone wants to cut excise duty by 33% on beer and 24% on stronger alcohol, one study showed that there was no difference. The forecast made on the Ministry of Finance's computer showed a difference of 2, 3 or 4% either this way or that way. However, it is clear that if we are to stop border trade, one of the two important articles must be, if not cheaper, at least at the same price as in Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U77	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U78	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said in a reply a little while ago that there would be a return to this draft if it did not lead to a reduction in border trade. But you also said that a medical representative went to the committee and warned you about further deaths and damage to health. I believe that this really will happen when the limit on the excise duty on spirits now falls to the same level as Latvia's. And that is why I ask: if it turns out that the overall rate of alcohol consumption does not continue to decline, stays at the same level or starts to rise, will the law be reviewed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U79	Thank you for a good question. The impact of excise policy must certainly be monitored at all times. This includes monitoring domestic consumption and public health impacts and, of course, what neighbours do. If there's a red light on somewhere, maybe there's a problem, they'll come back to that law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U80	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U81	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It certainly deserves to be acknowledged that mistakes are corrected. The rates proposed in the draft are based on political agreement, as has been said repeatedly in this Chamber and in the Commission. They are not based either on KPMG or PricewaterhouseCoopers. You assured me you'd keep an eye on him, and if necessary, the rates will be adjusted. Now, when I think back, the poor result of the 2018 budget came as a big surprise. How good are these tracking systems and reports anyway? Can we be sure here that we will quickly get the right picture of how the new policy has affected consumer behaviour?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U82	Thank you for a good question. I don't know how good they are. We have asked for a survey to be commissioned, which will monitor every month the retail trade on the one hand, border trade on the other, and thirdly, about the health of people in Estonia. And you always have to look at whether excises will be changed somewhere in the future. People are still asking if excise duties are being lowered elsewhere, but changing excise duties may also mean that they are being raised somewhere. So everything depends on a lot of different factors.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U83	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U84	Thank you. Good waitress! I agree that once the mistake has been made, the mistake must be corrected, but the mistake must be corrected correctly. You referred to ten years ago what alcohol excises were like. I took it out for interest and looked. In 2008-2012, for example, excise duties on beer and wine rose equally. This logic has also been generally observed later. Your previous government banged away with different principles: on lean alcohol, you raised the excise duty more and on strong alcohol less, and now you are evenly reducing it. Are you saying here that you are actually lowering alcohol duty disproportionately today compared to how you raised it very quickly in your time? Is that a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U85	Thank you, Hanno, for a good question. The decision was made last week in this hall. There were two drafts, there were two different options. I, as chairman of the committee, agreed in the committee that both drafts would come to the Chamber, both of which could be discussed. The majority supported one of the draft halls, the other didn't. Today, the majority want to reduce excise duty equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U86	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U87	Good manager! Good waitress! Soon, the big liquor store at the former Latvian-Estonian border crossing will again be filled with crowds. What would you say to this great crowd? What's the message? Will we meet somewhere else next year, or what's your message?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U88	Good Peter! The first message is: Drink less! The second message is that if an Estonian resident wishes to receive all the services offered here, and if it is seen that the government has learned from its mistakes, then we could now go shopping in Estonian shops. Most shops would be able to lower the price as early as 1 July.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U89	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U90	Thank you. Good Aivar! I'd ask for your personal opinion, too. You are the chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee and, as we know, the Riigikogu is not a rubber stamp. How do you feel about this numerical reduction of 25% for all types of alcohol, except for certain groups, right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U91	Thank you, Hanno! As an entrepreneur and vice versa as Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, it is certainly reasonable that one of the product groups has a zero price difference and the other one has a slightly higher price than Latvia. This is likely to bring more money to the Treasury than if both articles were zero. So I support this bill. There was also a possibility that the price difference between beer would be zero and vodka would be a few percent more expensive. As of now, it has been agreed that an equal fall will be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U92	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! "Spring" is the phrase that if you don't get the full sweep, the side of the road. It seems to me that this bill is not justified. Because making this side work is a clear loss. Why do I think that? You used to refer to research and expertise. If I remember correctly, the alcohol producers quite clearly predicted what a sudden increase in excise duty might mean, and with these figures they were not very wrong. It turns out, however, that the State was wrong in its calculations. You indicated that there was an expert opinion that was not prepared by the State, and if you put the Ministry of Finance aside, it would certainly be different. What would make sense, though, to do this at once so that the state can rid itself of its tax losses and continue to function normally?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U94	Thank you, Urmas, for a good question. We can tell whether decisions are right or wrong in the coming year. What is the right option, and what is the wrong one? Today, the majority in the hall feel that 25% of both lean and strong alcohol excise duty is the right decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U95	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U96	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, what is sympathetic about this draft and today's report is that the mistake is recognised and that it is intended to be corrected. Recognising an error in politics is certainly not a sign of weakness But the sign of weakness is that instead of making arguments, you try to talk about other topics and talk about what was done, for example, in 2008 or 2009, etc. We can look at what was done in 2008 or 2009, perhaps ten years ago. The rapporteur argued that, in the meantime, before the first government of Jüri Ratas, which included the Fatherland and the Sota, came to power, it was as if the excise duty on strong alcohol rose disproportionately fast compared to beer. Simple control indicates that this was not the case. The huge increase in excise duties on beer and wine, which took place before the end of 2016, rose at the same rate. And they rose at a fairly reasonable and more favourable pace for both the country and public health. Alcohol consumption decreased nicely from year to year and the country's revenue increased steadily from year to year. So, what happened in 2017? This is not a question of faith, by the way. If you're under economic law, it's quite logical to conclude that if you raise the excise duty on any commodity by 105%, then... Well, show me the person who doesn't realize that something has to happen to the consumption of the goods. And as we saw, something really happened. The question is, of course, that EUR 357 million, which has been written into the revenue of the state budget and has also been spent, cannot come back to our budget, no matter what option we adopt this draft. But now the good news, too. Indeed, amendments 7 and 8, tabled by the Reform Party Group, are not due to religion or political discretion, but to the analysis carried out by KPMG, which says that when excise duties are brought to this level, border trade with Latvia will fall sharply. It's the result of analysis, it's not faith, it's based on facts. And the difference is actually fundamental. Today, compared to 2009, i.e. 10 years ago, beer excise duty is 3.4 times higher and is expected to be 2.6 times higher, currently 1.9 times higher, and only 1.4 times higher. In ten years, alcohol excise has risen 80% less than beer. Honestly, it's hard for me to understand why. It is really difficult to understand, for I do not have the mind to believe that vodka is more useful or preferable to alcohol than lean alcohol. Since when is strong alcohol better for human health? Since when is strong alcohol preferable to excise policy? However, these amendments Nos 7 and 8 would leave the unequal situation in favour of vodka. However, the difference in favour of vodka would not be 80% more, but much less. I stress that the proposed changes are the result of KPMG's analysis. I am absolutely convinced that, in this way, the draft would have much more complexities, both from the point of view of public health and from the point of view of the revenue from the budget. So I call on everyone to support Amendments 7 and 8 of the Reform Party. Then we will actually correct the serious error that was made at the end of 2016, then we will actually increase the revenue from the state budget and also improve public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U97	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I want to say that a drop in alcohol duty is necessary. While extensive border trade was caused by a sharp increase in alcohol duty, border trade can only be excluded by cutting excise duty. Indeed, what we are dealing with now is correcting the mistakes of the previous government, but the correction of errors must not be such that a new mistake is made to this end in order to correct the mistake. If we recall, the sharp increases in excise duty, which led to extensive border trade, were in fact the result of a lack of thoughtless political decisions and impact analyses. Unfortunately, we see the same pattern now. In the Committee on Finance, we were told that 25% of excise duty cuts on both strong and lean alcohol are not based on impact analyses, but it is a political decision. The Reform Party also issued a draft for the procedure aimed at excluding border trade and reducing excise duty, but, unlike the draft currently under discussion, it relied on impact analyses, based on a study carried out by KPMG. KPMG also had not only a question of faith but also based its findings on surveys conducted by both buyers and sellers. There's also a very big difference. KPMG's analysis made it clear that a 33% drop in excise duty on beer is necessary to discourage border trade and a 4% drop in excise duty on spirits from today's level. To combat border trade, there is no need for more than to bring excise rates, and thus prices, close to the prices of the neighbouring country. Why it is necessary to bring the excise duty on strong alcohol to Latvia's level, it remained confusing during the previous debate. And we know that Latvia has a long-term plan. They have their own excise policy: they moderately increase rates every year on 1 March, as inflation and living standards rise. And if Latvia goes on with this plan, then next year it will happen that the rate of activity of Latvian spirits will be higher than that of our draft. In a situation where both prices and people's incomes vary in Latvia and Estonia, this is incomprehensible. I would even say that this step could be a bit provocative, and it would be very strange if Latvia did not take any steps. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U99	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U100	But indeed, the exclusion of border trade is a difficult task of optimising, and if we are going this way, that we simply believe that border trade is going to disappear, then in reality things may not be going that way. If we look at the materials from the Ministry of Finance that were received after this bill was issued, we will see that it clearly states that half of the border trade in beer will remain. Why is such a partial solution needed? Why do we need to come back soon to correcting these mistakes? It doesn't make any sense. But once again, the reduction of excise duty is necessary, but it must be done in a differentiated manner, as was proposed in the draft initiated by the Reform Party and as is stated in our amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U101	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U102	Mr President! Honourable Riigikogu! The chairman of the committee said a golden word. That word was "no." Most of the rest was bullshit. He answered the question whether the draft procedure was in line with good practice: 'No, he did not. '! The procedure has not responded to good practice either in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or in the government that has discussed it. And after that, I do not think there is any reason why anyone should vote in favour of this draft, especially in opposition. It was the same in 2016. The procedure was even worse because alcohol was put on a single bill in a bunch of other subjects. There were several taxes among them and no discussion could be held. The result, however, was known in advance: the market would be severely disrupted and the trade in lean alcohol would explode. This was the case: the share of border trade increased from 5% to 25%. It was a huge mistake that was made. I understand Evgeny's homely laughter in the corner that I've said in vain that the Minister of Finance is responsible for this kind of thing, he's still taking the blame. So I'm not gonna protect him anymore, so we're done together. The result of the 2016 Decision was entirely what the State should not have wanted. The fall in consumption stopped. Ten years was a rapid decline, according to my data, perhaps the fastest fall in Europe. It stopped, and the reason was, of course, the influx of lean alcohol. It was a strong incentive. In the course of this, Sester's work, which touched strong alcohol, was actually stopped earlier, so we shouldn't talk about it so much. Now, it's always been tried to deny when the border trade exploded. He exploded at Ratas as a result of the decisions of the previous government and must therefore be corrected accordingly. There are three aspects. Firstly, that our consumption is leaning towards vodka compared to the usual European practice, if that is at all the case with alcohol. We drink a lot of vodka. Secondly, our excise duties are very strongly due to this Ratas government in favour of vodka again compared to the European average. And thirdly, the creation of the border trade itself. If, after all, increasing the excise duty on lean alcohol caused the border trade to explode, then it must be treated the same way. The chairman of the committee was always saying that he still doesn't think they're going to buy a six-pack after a few euros. That's never why I'm here. They may take six when driving through, but they usually take 60 or more. That is what it is about to be bought in bulk, bought at very high sales prices and low-cost shops, and that is why this border trade has been rampant. Now there's a repeated statement, isn't there, that a man doesn't believe that thing? However, there is absolutely no basis for this, because the explanatory memorandum to the bill confirms that there is no equal treatment, there is completely unequal treatment. The border trade in vodka will disappear after the increase decided by Latvia, maybe a fifth before that, but half of the border trade in beer will remain. This is unequal treatment. Why should this lowering be so unequal? That's the biggest problem with this whole bill. I have, unfortunately, repeatedly had to hear the attitude in the debates that I am a little bit translating from the public is stupid, they do not understand anything unless we support it. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U103	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U104	And if the public doesn't understand anything, then we, as well as we, must understand nothing, we must drag along with it and support a foolish fall. I'm not willing to support a foolish fall. I'm willing to support the clever fall that really corrects the mistake that was made. Fixes according to some kind of analysis. After all, this reduction of 25% and 25% is simply a political agreement, confirmed by all the sound pipes. Even Martin Helme confirmed that it was a political agreement that he would have come here with the proportion that KPMG proposed. Even Martin Helme, who rarely gets something right about finance, admitted that it is unnatural to prefer vodka in this way. And I repeat what requires a repeat: we should not have the aim of making vodka cheaper than Latvia and beer more expensive than Latvia. After all, Latvia is the main influencer, and Latvia is now also the main influencer of Finnish tourists. They come on a tourist trip through Estonia and buy alcohol in Latvia. That's where the exploitation of our northern border has gone. What is very sad is that, in the course of the debate on this draft, such an elementary balanced knowledge of the fact that excise duty is in itself a tax on limiting consumption has completely disappeared. It's a very noble liver. The question is, if it crosses a certain line, then it will be bought across the border and the tax money will also go across the border. Money goes across the border, substitutes come in and people start to consume more. This aspect has completely been left out. Stopping border trade is a noble idea, but it must not completely ignore the impact on health. That's why excise duties are extremely depressing when it's ignored. Of course, one of the optimisation components is the budget. If it is confirmed here that the large reduction in excise duty at the beginning of the budget will be reduced and then 3 million will be won, it will still be a very low compensation for cheap vodka. And, of course, there is another economy. It was not allowed to talk at all about how everyone actually had an impact on the economy. However, this should always be done by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. How much do we know about the effects on the economy and how much do we have to take into account when deciding the rates? Finally, as I mentioned in my question, the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was really depressing. If 10 to 11 producers and vendors are brought there to confirm that yes, we are in favour of the bill, without actually explaining what are the effects on consumption, the economy and the sale of various alcohols, on the sale of substitute goods, it is quite cheesy. There is no point in bringing such a tax forum together so that the chairman can show himself to the interest groups. We need a discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U105	Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U106	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have had members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the representatives of finance on this board, and more has been said about the draft from a financial point of view. As a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, I am trying to put more emphasis on the public health aspect. First of all, of course, this bill is moving in the right direction. This is a correction of errors and its main aim is to put an end to border trade. But if we look at what the main cause of border trade is, according to KPMG's study or analysis, it's buying beer. The draft is, unfortunately, a political agreement which may not fulfil its objective of ending border trade. But why are excise duties even created? Acts are designed to make the consumption of a product as uncomfortable as possible. But now it can just happen that the price of vodka, the price of strong alcohol at all, will be lower in Estonia next year or in the second half of this year than in Latvia. And that doesn't suit public health. As the Commission rapporteur said, at the committee meeting, the medical representative warned against further damage. And this warning must be taken very seriously. I believe that this warning must not be ignored, and this risk cannot be ruled out. If the whole problem has been examined on an evidence-based basis in only one analysis . this is the same KPMG study. this should also be taken into account. I think, above all from this study, that the main problem should have been to focus on reducing excise duty on beer. This was written in the Reform Party's draft and is now in our amendments. In summary, I repeat that this is basically the right direction, it is a correction of errors, but since there are very high risks involved in this correction, I cannot support this draft. You can't ignore those risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U107	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U108	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U109	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U110	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! I want to talk today about both the content of the draft law that we are dealing with and the course of the proceedings. The question of whether the procedure corresponds to the good practice of dealing with draft laws in the Riigikogu can only be answered briefly: it does not answer. Two weeks for processing are clearly short. At the same time, I congratulate the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who really answered this question briefly, as I asked: 'No. ' However, I would like to ask why the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not even bother to ask the Social Affairs Committee for an opinion, not to mention a possible joint session. Now, the contents of the bill. 22 youth organisations have publicly submitted their joint return against the decision to issue excise duties on alcohol. And this is not because of emotion, but because of their approach, based on research and concern for young people. The Estonian Arstide Union has also addressed the Monetary Commission. True, of the 14 agencies whose representatives were invited to the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the Association of Doctors was the only one who spoke of the concerns and dangers that the fall in excise duty entails. And since the voice of both doctors and youth organisations is weak and the money is scarce to spread this message widely, I would like to report the content of these visits here in the Riigikogu, so that it remains a verbatim. Unfortunately, we are all starting to see the bad effects of this draft we are dealing with today. 22 youth organisations have submitted their contributions. I quote this: 'The government's plan to lower excise duties on alcohol sends a signal to society that alcohol consumption is favorable in our country. It has a strong impact on consumer behaviour, including young people who can try to encourage alcohol and develop appropriate behaviours. However, the social, economic and health damage caused by the increase in alcohol consumption is a heavy price that we will all pay in the future. Several youth organisations have worked long and hard to reduce alcohol consumption in society. However, statistics show that by the age of 15, seven out of ten young people have tried alcohol. This is clearly too much, not to mention adults with an estimated 30% over-consumption rate, but only 4% estimate their alcohol consumption too high. [---] Last year's statistics show that absolute alcohol consumption has decreased by 2% compared to 2017, which is at its lowest level in the last 10 years, and that the number of alcohol deaths is declining. The current alcohol policy has therefore moved in the right direction, which is why today's government's decision to make excise duties on alcohol works against the efforts made. ' Now the opinion of the Estonian Medical Association: 'The effects of reducing alcohol excise duty have been analysed in the draft explanatory memorandum only from a tax and economic point of view. The effects on public health and the health system have not been addressed. Lowering alcohol excise duty and thus making alcohol cheaper and encouraging its consumption will increase the cost of alcohol-related health damage, deaths and health care. In Estonia, according to the Estonian Conjuncture Institute, more than 1000 people die each day because of alcohol, a man of working age dies every third day, a woman. People who die from diseases indirectly related to alcohol are added. The financial burden of alcohol on the health insurance fund is about €50 million per year. Lowering alcohol excise by 25% causes an increase in mortality; we estimate that more than 150 people die a year. This is evidenced by international experience. [---] International studies and practice confirm that alcohol consumption is most affected by price, physical availability and advertising, and that children and young people are the most price sensitive. ' Now about faith. Archbishop Urmas Viilma has said: '... shouldn't be playing with taxes in a hurry. Especially when tax changes are primarily aimed at seeking better tax revenues and people who remain in the background. So 12 cents can become the price of the soul! ' The Social Democrats tabled several amendments to the draft. I will introduce the two of them, because unfortunately we cannot even vote on our amendments. Good fellows from the opposition! The Reform Party did not support our amendments and, unfortunately, the amendment cannot be voted in the Chamber by a single vote. The Social Democrats proposed that 10% of the excise duty on alcohol and tobacco received in the state budget be transferred to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund to deal with the consequences of human health problems. And another, which really should not be an amendment, could be self-evident in the case of good legislation for each draft: an evaluation report or an analysis. Our amendment was that the Government of the Republic would submit a report and analysis to the Riigikogu no later than 1 January 2021, and, if necessary, a proposal to change the rate of excise duty if the amendments to the Act were adopted in June 2019 were accompanied by non-conforming negative effects. We are talking about the impact on public health, consumption, business or excise duties. This amendment, too, was not supported and cannot be voted in this Chamber either. Finally, I would like to say that we very much expected the coalition to come into the hall with a reform that concerns the better management of older people, carers, children or families, and make proposals to ease and improve their lives in the event of their failure. However, we have been presented with the draft reduction of excise duties and the draft reduction of excise duties on alcohol, not, for example, fuel or electric excise duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U111	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U112	Thank you. The desire to lower excise duties on alcohol so as to solve the problem of border trade should not, in fact, blind us in this way, so that we do not see public health issues. There is positive news for young people aged 11 to 15: the survey estimates that 54% do not drink alcohol. The saddest fact is that 41% does this every month and 5% at least once a week. If we approve of the draft proposed by the coalition, what message do we actually give? We will make vodka and other spirits more available to these 41 + 5% young people in terms of price. Consumption patterns are developing at a young age, and if we encourage young people to consume strong alcohol, we are actually growing alcohol users. The reform party's draft, of course, would also like to solve the problem of border trade, and that is what is necessary. It is simply a question of balance: whether we are only putting emphasis on preventing border trade or whether we are also thinking about public health. I understand the concerns of the Socialists. Alcohol must not be readily available and has a very significant impact on the health of the population. The aim of the Reform Party's draft is to solve both problems. I am asking for support for the Reform Party's draft!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U113	Thank you. Does Jürgen Ligi have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U114	It seemed that my name was mentioned, I would ask you to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U115	Your name has not been mentioned in the negotiations. Maybe your neighbor just said so, but under the Rules of Procedure, you can't get the floor. Heiki Hepner.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'd still like to have a little debate on one question. When the Reform Party came up with its draft, I also asked about what studies they specifically refer to when they claim that reducing the excise duty on lean alcohol is more effective for young people than for strong alcohol. That when we make beer and other thinner drinks more accessible, it's like it directs young people to drink less alcohol. Of course, there was no answer to that, and there was a lot of other talk. It seems to me, in fact, that today too, this issue is clearly being overlooked. The Reform Party should compare its draft with what the Coalition has presented. In fact, I dare say that the reform party's draft is more harmful to young people. But, of course, the draft we are discussing today focuses primarily on restricting border trade, and I also recommend that everyone consumes as little alcohol as possible, regardless of how much it costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U117	Thank you. Let's continue the negotiations. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U118	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of speaking, but listening to this debate, I felt I had to say a few words. I think it is important to put the focus in place, or to answer the question of what problem we are solving. And it is true that, when we are dealing with this draft, and when we are discussing our party's draft and proposals, we have discussed border trade first and foremost. However, this does not mean that public health does not matter to us, that public health does not matter to us, so that public health does not matter to me. When we look at the numbers, we see that 3/4 of the alcohol legally consumed in Estonia is purchased here, 1/4 is purchased from Latvia. So when we talk about public health, we are talking about reducing consumption at all, we have to look at both of these numbers, and I think it is worth a separate debate. As I mentioned in my question, it is understandable if the proposal of the government coalition is based on a political agreement. That's what I personally understand. We have different political views, different political preferences. However, there is a difference between whether the political agreement is based on analysis, research or rather is just a number that was somehow achieved. These proposals for the reduction of excise rates, which are in the Reform Party's draft, are based on KPMG's study. It must have been the coalition's will not to base itself on KPMG's study, nor on PricewaterhouseCoopers' study, which also contained the elasticities that were discussed here. It was possible to calculate different optimal rates, but for one reason or another it was not taken into account. My appeal is simply that we approach the problem on the basis of research and fact, just as those proposals were in our draft. I call on you to support the proposal of the Reform Party. Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that I and, I believe, my partymates, very much hope that everyone sitting in this Chamber today will not vote against public health, but will actually be concerned about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U119	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U120	Good Chairman! Dear colleagues, young and old drink friends, as well as those who suffer alongside those drink friends who follow us online! The processing of statistical data in the direction you need is, of course, playing with numbers. The awareness of letters from youth organisations is not about manipulating young people, but about involving young people in this important process. We could all go to youth events with open ears and talk to young people. Young people have said that the situation in Norway has become quite difficult. Norway, a welfare state with enough money, has raised the price of beer so high that young people have switched to drugs. It's easier and more convenient. It works faster. Norway faces a major problem. They're asking: why did we do it? No one remembers why they did it. I guess it was just the same story that an analysis said that the interests of public health required it. This has actually led to a situation where instead of sucking the beer through the face, a heavy slap, a poppy shot, is cast into the eye. Siih, and your health will go away! Somehow young people don't talk about it. Are young people suddenly no longer communicating with their peers on the Internet? I understand that today we have a major ideological dispute here whose calculation is accurate. I'm talking about involvement. I also have a study: TAPE. TÄPE's study says that no Estonian person believes that we have a drop in the price of alcohol in a bar, despite the 25% reduction in excise duty. No one will. But no one here dares to mention it, because the merchant still wants his. Merchants came, brutal crocodile tears squeezed out of their eyes and said that a Finnish tourist had gone. But what prevents you from lowering the price of beer at Town Hall, even if it costs 3 euros? There is still a profit margin. As an ex-brew beer friend and a big booze friend, I say that there is no direct representative of the target group involved. No drunks or alcoholics organisations were present. So you don't know what they think about the bill. Therefore, the process has been carried out in a hasty manner, not involving the main target group. We're only talking about the interests of merchants, the interests of doctors and perhaps the side effects. I say that I do not believe that the Reform Party has now suddenly found the source of absolute truth inside the forest and that their calculations are more accurate than anything else. If such a moment of enlightenment were possible, we would have been enlightened all at once because the illuminator is the same. I'm guessing, less bullshit, longer step, let's get on with it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U121	Aivar Chef, a procedural question or a speech on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U122	I thought I'd like to clarify a few things.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U123	Speaking on the spot, please! Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U124	There was concern that some amendments were tabled to the draft, which did not receive more than one vote in the Commission. They weren't discussed. I am simply saying that, as I said before, this draft was dealt with in a relatively accelerated manner. Most of the amendments were very sensible and we agreed in the Commission that we would come back to these issues in the autumn. It's just that if there's an important topic going along, we should arrange for a meeting of all parties to discuss it and hear them out, but it wouldn't have happened in the last week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U125	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. We can go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment tabled by Mr Kruusimäe, Mr Saaremäe, Mr Espenberg, Mr Reitelmann. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. The second amendment, as well as the one tabled by Tarmo Kruusimäe, Üllar Saaremäe, Urmas Espenberg and Urmas Reitelmann, was tabled. The proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The third amendment is tabled by Mr Toomas, Mr Kivimägi, Ms Riisalo, Mr Milling and Mr Everausi. Lead committee: not to be taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to voting in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee: take full account. Amendment 5, tabled by Ms Sikkut. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 6, also tabled by Mrs Sikkut. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. The seventh amendment was tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U126	Thank you. The Group of the Reform Party is asking for it to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U127	We are going to vote on this amendment. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the seventh amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 28 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 58 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U128	Thank you, Mr. Helir-Valdor Seeder. The Reform Party Group is asking for this proposal to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-11_U129	Thank you. We are going to vote on this amendment. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the eighth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 28 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 54 against and no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. The ninth amendment tabled by Ms Sikkut. The position of the lead committee: to be taken into account. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. And the tenth amendment tabled by Mrs Sikkut. The position of the lead committee: not to be taken into account. This proposal, in accordance with the law, is not to be voted on here either. We have examined all the amendments tabled. The second reading of bill 30 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's agenda has been discussed. Thank you. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.04 p.m.
