ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, President of the Republic, President Rüütel, Prime Minister, heads of constitutional institutions, ministers and guests! Today we are celebrating the 100th anniversary of our Parliament. Today, 100 years ago, the first freely elected legislative body started work, the Founding Assembly, which made very large and important decisions. I will open a formal sitting dedicated to it. [[The anthem of the Republic of Estonia is sung.]] Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to ask Mr Henn Põllea, President of the Riigikogu, for a timely speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U2	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, President of the Republic, President Rüütel, Prime Minister, heads of constitutional institutions, ministers, Excellencys and guests! I am pleased to congratulate you on the 100th anniversary of the Riigikogu. It was these minutes 100 years ago that 117 women and men had gathered in the Estonia Concert Hall, who could rightly consider themselves the first representatives of Estonia. Ten political parties were nominated for the first democratic elections, and eight were elected by the people to the Constituent Assembly. As in the present Riigikogu, Petserimaa was not fully represented. There were battles of the War of Independence, and there were no elections possible. The Constituent Assembly acted for 19 months and 28 days, holding 170 meetings during five sessions. The activities of the Constituent Assembly were comprehensive. The main focus, however, was on two topics: adopting the land law and creating a constitution, the foundation of our statehood, on which to build the Estonian state and secure the eternal dream of our people to be the master of their own land. The Constituent Assembly formed Estonia's development trends as the first representative body. It was declared that the Estonian people want to live an independent state life as a nation state. Forever, as our current constitution confirms. These courageous men and women, unlike us, were not able to rely on external examples to solve their difficult tasks. Good examples were not simply to be taken. Europe just recovered from a devastating world war. It had shocked not only those known in literature as a lost generation of young people who were involved in the war, disabled and morally devastated, but also intellectuals, opinion leaders, and politicians. All of them. No one knew what Europe would be like to be rebuilt. However, there was another reason for the lack of external role models. The formation of the Constituent Assembly was young, with an average age of 36 years. They were courageous and independent in their decisions. They didn't wonder what they thought about us elsewhere. They thought about what decisions must be made to serve the interests of the Estonian state and the people. It was based on its own people, the greatest possible support. And rightly so, because Estonians were then one of Europe's highest literacy nations. Honourable listeners! In an hour, Jaak White will be presented to the White Paper on Parliament's history in the White Hall. In it, the activities of the Constituent Assembly and of the next parliamentary formations have been thoroughly enlightened. However, I recall one very topical issue here, the introduction of a popular initiative and a referendum in the Republic of Estonia. We know history is not a fairy tale. History is a series of real events, thoughts and actions. One of the most important historical philosophers of the 20th century, Robin George Collingwood, has expressed the idea "to know what we are capable of, we need to know what we have done." The Constituent Assembly did great things. A committee of the Constituent Assembly was set up tomorrow 100 years ago with the task of drafting a temporary constitution. According to this, the highest authority belonged to the people on whose behalf and under whose authority the Constituent Assembly was to carry it out. Citizens had the right to initiate the establishment, amendment and repeal of laws. The laws adopted by the Constituent Assembly were also to be submitted to a referendum when required by 25000 citizens or a third of the members of the Constituent Assembly. Almost everyone supported this during the debate on the Temporary Constitution. The most enthusiastic people's initiative was spoken in contrast to today's social democrats and working parties. Only seven pro-Moscow socialist revolutionaries opposed. They found that the will of the electorate was being manipulated and that a classic democracy, or majority power, does not guarantee progress. Liberal and right-wing parties were also in favour of the People's Initiative. Jaan Tõnisson said that the People's Party considers it most necessary for the people to be able to express their will directly. He continued: "We believe that when the people take the matter into their own hands, only the laws and regulations that really satisfy the requirements of the people's lives and the needs of the crowds will really be enforced. "The popular initiative and vote were seen as an instrument of democracy, not as a tool for political parties to implement their agenda. Just as it is in all countries where direct democracy complements representative democracy. The Constituent Assembly did not believe that Estonian society was not ready to make its own decisions, that Estonian society would harm minorities with referendums, or that referendums would divide society. On the contrary, the public initiative was seen as a social referee. The War of Independence just went on. The Provisional Constitution was adopted on 9 July 1919. The same autumn was also the year of adoption of the People's Initiative and Voting Act. 25 000 citizens' signatures were required to initiate the public initiative and vote and the result was binding. The constitution, adopted in 1920, which was one of the most democratic in the world, slightly changed the system. However, the principles underlying the popular initiative and the voting mechanism remained the same. It was a deep respect and confidence in its people that the representative body was not the master of society but a servant; a willingness to take account of the attitudes of the majority of society and to act accordingly. Honourable Riigikogu! The people are also the highest authority in the country according to the constitution. A survey carried out in January this year revealed that 79% of respondents wanted to change the Constitution so that the people would have the right to resume referendums. This shows that the Estonian people have maintained a democratic attitude for a hundred years. It's a sign of wisdom and maturity. Think about it. We've survived the devastating storms of history. We lasted and restored our country. We have something to be proud of. I very much want us members of the current Riigikogu not to forget the democratic and noble principles of the creators of the Estonian state and the Constituent Assembly. Good luck to us! Let's look forward to the future. Long live Estonia! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U3	The President of the Republic of Estonia has the floor on Kersti Kaljulaid. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U4	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Mr President Rüütel! Dear fellow countrymen, ladies and gentlemen. "Estonia must be a democratic republic in which there would be a legal order without vanquishing. " A hundred years ago, August Rei, elected chairman of the Constituent Assembly, spoke to his colleagues today. He clearly described our goal of becoming a democratic state where justice pays, guarantees civil liberties, and highlights the shadows of the past that we had to deal with. The first representative of the Republic of Estonia was elected during the War of Independence and worked under extremely difficult conditions specific to the young state. The Constituent Assembly was faced with great work in determining the foundations of an independent state and building up the land. Whether it is education or land reform, seeking recognition for the new state and keeping our allies or, of course, developing the first Estonian constitution. All of this was done in circumstances where the war meant that almost everything was lacking. But there was no shortage of this basic hope and will to do, of a firm desire to build a democratic republic. The complicated conditions were not a justification for looking for a simpler governance model No. After all, what was to be done was to become the property of all Estonians and, more importantly, of all the peoples of Estonia, as our manifesto of independence says. At the opening session, August Rei wondered whether the representatives of the people could cope with their difficult task. And he replied: "To carry out these tasks, all of us want our strength and all our skills to work. But there is little of the power that our people performers can offer; these huge tasks are only feasible if all the people, all the vital and organized forces of the people, give themselves to this great creative conversion work. Our art must stand in order to harness all the vital forces of the people to this work. And if it matters to all the people's forces to get into this job, we can look boldly to the future. " This idea of August Rei a century ago is timeless, and this art must be involved as much as possible in the state's life, and every democracy must prevail if it wants to continue. Because a strong and active state can only remain in trust. This means transparency and cooperation. Parliament is a place where different opinions come together. This is where they need to be discussed and discussed. Parliament is the place where representatives of the people find the most sensible common part, because we all have different desires and opinions, and our common part can only come out in the course of intelligent discussions. Of course, this whole process is complicated and time-consuming, and sometimes it seems annoying, pointless to some, but without this complexity, we would have no reason to celebrate today. This is the most reliable method, which takes into account the interests of as many Estonian people as possible, must ensure transparency and build the necessary trust in the state. In a democratic country, everyone has the right to an opinion and the duty to express that opinion with dignity. The prerequisite for the rule of law is to understand that our rights are always and most directly linked to obligations and responsibilities. However, the responsibility for what is happening in this hall is only and only for anyone other than every member of the Riigikogu. Responsibility for every word you say. Responsibility for every vote, every decision taken. This responsibility is always and only individual, it is made only in front of its own conscience, and this is all that the Constitutional Chapter IV tells us. Chapter four is not an easy reading. This responsibility towards our country is difficult to bear, especially since paragraph 62 leaves no interpretation. Yes, in every vote, a member of the Riigikogu is free in his decision. Yes, he always takes full responsibility in every vote. Among other things, the composition of each Riigikogu is responsible for all our freedom and human rights. That's how it's been since the Constituent Assembly. I recall here the chapter on the fundamental rights of the citizens of the first Estonian constitution, adopted by the Constituent Assembly, which made very clear our views at that time: "There can be no public prerogatives and evil rights depending on birth, religion, gender, rank or nationality. " It's so beautiful. It was very clear in our manifesto of independence that all civil liberties are guaranteed in a free Estonia. These principles are also clearly stated in our current constitution and they live in our present Estonia. In fact, that is why Estonia today lives, as an independent state, and also in the hearts of our people, that these freedoms relate to our Estonian state. There is no security without freedom. Without freedom, there is no constructive debate about life either. There is no entrepreneurship without freedom. Not many children are born without freedom. A multifaceted culture is not created without freedom. You can't go on without freedom as a nation. A free country will escape. Free. That is why personal freedoms, freedom of the media, freedom of expression, freedom of business in our country are the most important. Because as long as we have these freedoms, as long as people choose to be here, come here and not go here. I repeat: the people of Estonia are free. Estonian entrepreneurs are free. Estonian journalists are free. Estonian creative people are free. The members of the Estonian Riigikogu are free. Really free, with responsibility for every word, act and push of the button. There are no structures in Estonia that would not be subject to legislative and parliamentary control. There are no subcurrents in Estonia that would be directed opaquely in the interests of anyone other than the Estonian people. The country of Estonia is not run from anywhere other than this hall. Only in this hall. Everything that happens in Estonia and with the country is the responsibility of this hall. Any opposite argument, whoever is referred to as "the real pointer," is an attempt to circumvent its responsibility in this Chamber. The country of Estonia is not run from anywhere but from this hall. Good friends! The Riigikogu is a representative of our people and thus an example for our people. Each of your words and opinions is focused and shapes attitudes not only towards you, but towards our entire country. There are also decisions to be taken in this Chamber. From the representative body of the country that has become one hundred years old, our citizens demand a great deal of maturity and greater responsibility, deeper, more thorough examination of decisions. And I am very pleased that there is now a growing opportunity for this. We will have more money at our disposal in the coming years for scientific research than has been the case so far, and it is natural that it will also be used to support our difficult but important decisions in terms of the future of society. In a hurry and without adequate impact studies, we could all be held hostage to laws adopted for a very long time. But you can't go like this. Respectable! There was a great deal of enthusiasm in the Estonia Hall a hundred years ago, and there was clearly little parliamentary experience. Now we have enough experience and I very much want to hope that there will never be a shortage of enthusiasm. We can have a more solid Estonia with respect to one another. Finally, I will repeat what was said in this very Chamber at the beginning of April: the idea of our constitution lives when we use democratic values as Estonian citizens and patriots and let others use them as well. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U5	Thank you, Madam President. Next, I would like to ask Prime Minister Jüri Ratas of the Speaker's Office. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Very honorable President of the Republic! Mr President Rüütel! Honourable Presidents Mr Toomas Savi, Mrs Ene Ergma and Mr Eiki Nestor! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, ambassadors, heads of constitutional institutions, good people in the hall and listeners! On the third anniversary of our independence, the editor-in-chief, Ado Anderkopp, who belonged to the Constituent Assembly, looked back at the Free Land in the newspaper for the first years of our young country as follows: "The duty for the following year is to secure his freedom against external threats by force, to bring together the founding Assembly and to enforce urgent innovations through him, and to continue to exploit every opportunity to put an end to our violently imposed struggle. Every day, hesitating costs the lives of the sons of their homeland and devastates households. " The retrospect of Anderkop is a good indication of the growing environment of the young Republic of Estonia, the circumstances that forced us most urgently and which issues urgently required a solution. Our newly-woned freedom and independence were only tested in the fields of strife. Our country had to create the laws of its own institutions, and our people needed determination and decision. The Assembly, when it met 100 years ago today, took up these tasks. Our country needed a solid legal basis for freedom in the fields of war. This was the result of our first constitution following the temporary regime of the rule of the Republic of Estonia, which laid the foundation for the current separation and balance of powers. Our people needed security for the future, a place to live, and bread. This was the result of the adopted land law, which Theodor Pool, the main author of which considered land reform to be the result of our independence and even its pledge in the future. Our young Estonia also needed peace and stability. It was secured for the future by the Tartu Peace Treaty, ratified by the Constituent Assembly, which ended the War of Independence, set our eastern border and guaranteed Soviet Russia's recognition of the independence of the Republic of Estonia. After the establishment of the necessary foundations for the Republic of Estonia and the urgent consolidation of our future, the first composition of the Riigikogu continued to be our representative of the people and legislative authority. Since then, the composition of each parliament has been its own face and has made an important contribution to the development of Estonia, building on the work of its predecessors and building on our own statehood. Each Riigikogu is assessed by time. It is the time distance that will help us to truly appreciate the forward-looking decisions and work of the Constituent Assembly and the subsequent democratically elected representatives of the people. Likewise, future generations appreciate our actions and choices today. I congratulate the Estonian state and the people on the 100th anniversary of the inaugural session of the Constituent Assembly. I sincerely wish strength to the Riigikogu and strength to Estonia. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U7	Thank you. Mr. President of the Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court Ivo Pilving, a chair of speech, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U8	Honourable President of the Riigikogu, Members of the Riigikogu, President of the Republic, President Rüütel, high civil servants, Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the President of the Supreme Court, I have the honour to wish you a good anniversary of representative democracy. I would also like to congratulate the current Riigikogu on the mandate received from the recent elections. My deepest respect for all who have been entrusted by the people to this honorable position. Today 100 years ago, the first fair and directly elected representative of the people of Estonia met to create a constitution for Estonia. The supreme basic principles of the Constitution, which was born in the Constituent Assembly, were freedom and democracy. Already in the independence manifesto, the Provisional Government was given the task of establishing unintentioned judicial authorities for the protection of the security of citizens. The former province of the Tsar police state had to be rebuilt into the rule of law, where the law pays, not the bureaucrat's discretion, where the rights and freedoms of citizens are respected. Good people's representatives! Our first constitution has even been considered too democratic. The current Constitution is also deeply democratic, but contains elements of balance. For example, the court must monitor the constitutionality of any law or other legal act. It is also up to the Court to monitor the application of any law, not just the Brussels directives, in a rational manner. A good judge rewording the idea of Oru Pearu: a man is not here for the laws created by the world; let the law serve the man. Although the judicial authority, with its control, seems to be in opposition to other branches of power, with the mandate of the people, we are actually doing the same thing, the free and democratic Republic of Estonia. I therefore consider it symbolic that the inaugural session of the Constituent Assembly was initiated by Kaarel Parts, who soon became the first chairman of the Supreme Court. He held this profession until 1940 through difficult times. A few weeks ago, the villagers of Arula and I lit a memorial candle for the Court-Caar. When the Supreme Court arranged to move away from Tartu at the order of the State Elder in 1935, Parts said the following words: "The work of the Court is constantly to create peace by means of justice, to determine the right and to set it on its feet, by whomever it was corrupted. " Do not resent the judges for this work. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to teach anyone, least of all, how to run the country on a holiday. But you can dream. I would like Estonia to have a balance between democracy and the rule of law. It is worth avoiding legal overregulation and any exaggeration of rights and freedoms. We have been warned of this by the refugee legal philosopher Ilmar Tammelo. I do not agree with all his views at all, but with the fear that a one-sided demand for human rights without obligations and responsibility could lead to their own bankruptcy. On the other hand, I hope that democracy is not merely a procedure or an empty shell, but has substance. Democracy is not about the arbitrary tyranny of a small or large majority, but also the respect for the dignity and freedom of the people affected by the decisions. Democracy without dignity and freedom would be the democracy of slaves. I wish the Riigikogu strength and wisdom in maintaining balance. Long live the Republic of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U9	Thank you. The word welcomes Auditor General Janar Holm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U10	Honourable President of the Republic! Honourable President of the Riigikogu, President Rüütel, members of the Riigikogu and the Government and guests! I do not remember any composition of the Riigikogu after which it would not have been sighed: yes, it is not a cross section of society, but it really was necessary to cut so deeply this time. It is likely to be the same after further formations have become known, because it is humane. Because there aren't many people who like their own reflection. Ten years ago, when the 90th anniversary of the meeting of the Constituent Assembly was held in this very hall, the then Auditor General Mihkel Oviir quoted a paragraph from an article published in the Academy magazine by physicist scientist Tiit Kärner. I'm going to read those lines again today because they haven't lost their topicality. The circumstances, people and problems have changed and changed, but the message is universal. I quote: "Those politicians and leaders with whom they are dissatisfied have been chosen by the people themselves and by the people themselves, according to their supposed suitability for this role. So no matter how bad they are, they are still the best people have to take, and replacing them with others wouldn't change anything. [---] The people of an independent state are responsible for their own government or ruler [---] The situation in which the people imagine themselves to be the greatest suffering under their own rule is grotesque, ridiculous, and humiliating. " Thus, as free citizens and voters, we are responsible for any result that ultimately results in our choice in this Chamber. The sense of this responsibility, however, has not become easier in the last ten years; the fragmentation of the information field and thinking have also had an impact. It is therefore particularly important to remember the role of all of us, especially Members of Parliament, in developing responsible governance and factual decision-making space for society in explaining world affairs in a balanced and factual way. Looking at developments in the wide world as well as in us, it is increasingly important that the electorate is able to use democracy and its instrumentarium responsibly. Thus, historian and social character, one of the top intellectuals of pre-war Estonia, Peter Tarvel, has stressed in his many works that the functioning of democracy requires the existence of an enlightened electorate. It is also useful to write that future democracy can carry out tough and systematic tasks only on one condition: namely, if educated heads do not store in their narrow shell or move away from a broad society. Won't worship every power in a ready - to - serve scream, no matter what it is. It is the patient and consistent enlightenment of the electorate that does not blind him too much by pointing the flash of a flash of a flash of a flash of a flash of a flash of a flash of a flash of a flash of a flash of a flash of a flash of a flash of a light of mind that is primarily the role and responsibility of elected representatives. However, it is also the responsibility of all those in the service of the state. I am pleased to confirm here that the National Audit Office is prepared to be of all assistance and support to the members of the Riigikogu representing the people in creating an atmosphere of fact-based decision-making and fact-based debate. We can also contribute to a better understanding of the relationship between facts. Finally. Peter Tarvel's contemporary, prominent Estonian journalist, historian and social character Eduard Laaman has written in his book "Democracy and dictatorship," which is useful to remember over and over again: "We took from democracy his most flexible form of parliamentarianism. Already when the constitution was being drafted, the voices said that it was not a threat. It imposes the highest demands on its users. He's like the most perfect machine that needs the most sophisticated approach. [---] If a farmer has to use a machine that he doesn't feel complicated, he can't miss out on the flutters. A man has been anxious enough to sweat and tossed the sky into black, he has to drive the whole place to a ditch behind the fence if he doesn't beat it up in the heat of anger on the spot. [---] At such an instant, a little patience is urgently needed in order not to take thoughtless steps, after which it is difficult to correct. " Thank you and wish you all happiness, reasonableness, and discernment. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U11	Thank you! Chancellor Ülle Madise of the speaker's office, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U12	Honourable President of the Riigikogu, President of the Republic, President Rüütel, members of the Riigikogu, former Members of Parliament, Government of the Republic, Excellencys! Several times have been said here today, and it is right to praise the birthday child that the state of Estonia is run by the Riigikogu. I think it's great. Parliamentaryism, at all and also our Riigikogu, responds brilliantly to the spirit of the present time. This spirit is searchable, doubtful, and hopeful. I don't believe it, and I don't think it's the right thing to believe anyone who cleverly says from above: "That's the way it is! So think about it, so feel it, that's how it's right! " I don't believe, I don't have to, I can't. The truth has historically been tried: the more people participate in decision-making, the smarter the decision-making is divided, the stronger the future of one country and nation. As a peasant's wisdom, don't put all your eggs in one basket. It has also been said today that the Riigikogu is and must be honest and presentable as the bearer of the highest power of the people. This means that there are different destinies, interests, experiences, different senses of justice, and perhaps certain imperfections, which are not to be condemned rashly, but sometimes have to be appreciated. I think that it is quite unfair, but perhaps rather clever, to try to convince the people and the Members themselves that the Riigikogu is only a place to formalise the decisions of the government. It's not and it can't be! My experience in the office of Chancellor of Justice also confirms: no. The people are represented in the Riigikogu, there are 101 valuable life experiences and visions for the future, and here all decisions that shape Estonia should be considered and felt. A member of the Riigikogu is not only right but even obliged to ask sharp questions, to propose amendments if necessary, and, if the draft is of no use, to simply reject it. Even the seemingly small mistake of rushing a hundred days makes many people unhappy. The feeling that you don't care that something has gone wrong, what if you don't deliberately, usually, have to be sent for a while, and so there's a petty grudge. Perhaps from time to time this will not be recognised, how great, important and responsible the work of a member of the Riigikogu is. The point is, the responsibility of each member is personal, nameless and timeless. Whether we are talking about the reduction of deprivation, medical care, school arrangements, the survival of peripherals, penalty rates, support for entrepreneurship or road construction, whatever is, fair and wise, the people are divided into several camps. And these views are represented here in the Riigikogu. Historical experience allows us to believe and even hope that the Estonian people will never become obedient and will never trust anyone blindly. And that's good too. It is a well-balanced system of separate powers and our constitutional organisation that has served Estonia well and has brought us to a better pace faster than those who have made different constitutional choices. If anything is changed in these great choices, it is not in the direction of concentration of power, but rather perhaps it is worth sharing more decision-making power with the people, with the local authorities, with civil society organisations and with the people themselves. So there is more freedom, more creation and more responsibility. The point is that the agreement will convince you more effectively than anything that's supposed to be, but it hasn't been seen or controlled by itself. However, the internal peace mentioned in the preamble to the Constitution is protected by the knowledge that these agreements can be amended. Before any major change, be it a pension or tax system, there will be a common journey along a twisted path of logical reasoning, which, by nature, has been served by personal interests, prejudices and perhaps by a little vicious gambling. But on this camping trip, you, members of the Riigikogu, are the ones who understand all these human Palaces. Honourable Riigikogu! Therefore, at the Riigikogu's birthday today, I dare ask: no matter how much pressure there is and no matter how beautiful the talk goes, please do not hand over any more levers of leadership to other branches of state power! To the people, yes, to the local government, but not to other branches of state authority. The balance of Estonia's success is fragile. And this is not about specific people in particular positions of power. All these years, when I have served the country, I have seen that people want the best for Estonia, but it is about the long-term impact of the organisation of government administration. The main problem for our people is not that the state is run by the Riigikogu or that one or the other of the central government's structural boxes has been set up either in one way or another. I see every day the same picture as you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, probably too. The biggest concern for the Estonian people tends to be that too many feel unfairly treated. Sometimes it means material or social deprivation and abandonment, sometimes indifference, arrogance, suffocating complexity of bureaucracy. All this is fixable. That is why it seems to me that the honorable birthday child and the members of the Riigikogu can bring to this Parliament these stories about life itself and everyday problems, and with every bill, ask: how and whose life this makes for the better? People are waiting for these answers. However, it has to be said that people's strain concerns remain unsolved when attention is paid to the design of the roof. In my opinion, throughout history, the representative body of our people has mostly been greater than itself, authoritative and still hardworking in accordance with the spirit of the Constitution. This 100-year-old dignity and influence deserves the greatest credit to me. We should be able to learn from this long history that underestimating the people and the people's representation is deeply wrong. That is why participation, power and decision-making must be protected in a committed way; deepened, not reduced. The Riigikogu has a future. Congratulations for the next centuries, Honourable Riigikogu! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-23_U13	Thank you, Madam Chancellor. The formal sitting is closed by the Chamber Choir Collegium Musicale, supervised by conductor Endrik One-gate. [[Sings the choir.]] Thank you all for coming here! Thanks for the beautiful music! But what we're doing today isn't over yet. I ask you all to present a book on the history of the Estonian Parliament in the White Hall at 13.15. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 12.52 p.m.
