ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start the first briefing of this Riigikogu. Checking for presence first, please! 53 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, missing 48. In today's Question Time, Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu will participate in the duties of Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Ladies and gentlemen, since the law has changed in the meantime, I will briefly introduce the new Question Time format. Instead of one hour, the Question Time will take place for two hours, 12:00 p.m..14 p.m. The questioner has two minutes instead of one minute and the replyer's minister has a maximum of three minutes instead of two minutes. The remaining Question Time format should be the same as before. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have eight registered questioners, and that is why we will make sure that the person who has registered the question is able to ask a specific question, and that the floor can also ask the minister a specific or supplementary question. Let's start the briefing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U2	The first questioner is Jürgen Ligi, member of the Riigikogu, the question is presented in the duties of the Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs, Urmas Reinsalu, and the subject is foreign policy. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U3	Thank you. Mr. Reinsalu! During the last change of government, the State Department did a rescue operation to prove to you from all over the world that the government wasn't pro-Russian. The reasons for this continued: there was an agreement with the United Russia, the Prime Minister's speeches, Russia-friendly changes in the wording of the European Union at the Baltic meeting, etc. I don't know if the action was successful at the time. But now things have changed a lot. The media is full, let's say, of such government members' handsigns, of how domestic violence is protected, of how witnesses are threatened, of how the judges are called into question by media freedom, of how government members insult the President. What's the Foreign Minister doing on this line now? Are they trying to let it all be, or are they trying to defuse it by denying it? What's the tactic now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U4	Thank you. Dear Jürgen Ligi! Allow me first of all to pay tribute to the Riigikogu on behalf of the government that took office. I hope that the new format of Question Time will ensure a very interesting dialogue with the Estonian public, Estonian society, and will allow monitoring of the government based on the interests and perceptions of the parliament through Parliament. Now the question of the government's foreign policy tactics. I would say that there is no doubt that foreign policy has a strategic course in addition to tactical targeting. And let me use this new, innovative Question Time format to briefly open this strategic course. Firstly, the foreign policy of the government that took office is based on consistency, that is to say, its unwavering loyalty to our allied responsibilities both in NATO and in the European Union. Secondly, the government has set itself the goal of clearly defending the interests of the Estonian state in international relations. Thirdly, it is extremely important to strengthen a special strategic alliance with our biggest security partner, the United States. And we also attach great importance to strengthening cooperation in the Baltic-Nordic space. I am thinking of the strategic cooperation projects that are taking place in our region, for example, in the development of infrastructure. As for what I have done to present the government's foreign policy position, firstly, I have had telephone conversations with the foreign ministers of all the European Union's partner countries in our region. I have also considered it important to have a telephone conversation with both the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and Georgia and to reassure them unequivocally that the foreign policy principle of this government is also unambiguously to stand up for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of these countries and to oppose Russia's aggressive behaviour. I have also had a meeting with members of the diplomatic corps residing in Estonia. There, too, I took the opportunity to introduce the foreign policy line of the government that took office. There are certainly problems, there are issues just as they are natural, they have occurred in earlier times. And if there are any questions, it is clear that questions must be answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U5	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U6	Thank you. Mr Reinsalu, questions really need to be answered. I was afraid that you would read these points, but when you talk about allied relations in NATO and the European Union, you are talking about a liberal democratic West. You are saying that our policy is very consistent, but that is by no means what it is. It has never been that members of the Estonian parliament and government say ugly about Jews that they are racist, that they show handsigns that are very unambiguously interpreted in the West, that witnesses are threatened, that judges are threatened that the press feels harassed before. I still want you to answer my question. How do you make it clear to the Western Allies that there is still a liberal democratic society in Estonia and that these changes are simply seeming? Every week he hears some kind of rapture against a free society. Today I read that the perpetrators of domestic violence are being pursued and the witnesses threatened. That's what the Home Secretary did last week at a government press conference. This isn't a joke we're just bouncing back at points! Do you have any idea how to get rid of all this? How to get the Estonian trademark out of the trash can? How can the Prime Minister not be ashamed when he goes abroad all the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U7	Thank you. I categorically reject the statement that the Estonian trademark is in the trash can. Estonia's international reputation is extremely important to me as Minister of Foreign Affairs. If the problems raised by the international media, whether as a result of the domestic policy struggle or as a result of objective interpretations, are raised about Estonia, they must be given an unambiguous and clear answer. And don't be afraid, these answers will come. I also disagree that the problems you referred to were not before. I recall the pictures published in the newspapers, where the mouths of our cultural figures were glued down when there was an act of taking over Sirb, and in Estonian society there were extremely serious questions as to whether certain government politicians are dealing with the muzzles of the Estonian media. I must admit that I remember what to deny sin here, that I too was responsible for the government when the repeated and vigorous attacks by Prime Minister Ansip on the Estonian prosecutor's office, independently of the criminal prosecution institution, had been called into question when, in fact, the independence of our prosecutor's office was called into question. Of course, I think that all those who exercise authority in our country must, of course, guarantee the independence of the investigating authorities. And I can assure you that this line must also be borne in mind by the current government. As far as domestic policy issues are concerned, I understand that there are many problems and concerns in society, many question marks. The issues relating to them are objective, sincere and need to be answered clearly. Estonia is and will remain the rule of law. Estonia is and will remain a country with respect for human dignity, where the principles of freedom of expression and democracy apply, as you have pointed out. And that must be the starting point for moving forward, as our President taught us: 100 anger-free days. In this spirit, I would also like to thank the good questioner for this benevolent and also on behalf of the opposition for calling for dialogue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U8	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U9	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! You will certainly receive an overview of what is happening on foreign media every morning of what is written by international influential publications from Estonia. My question is: do these reviews concern you? Are you concerned that the things you call our country's domestic policy have also reached the pages of influential international publications? And if it worries you, what are your next steps to improve the media image that has seriously damaged Estonia's reputation in just a week? What are your plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U10	Thank you. Of course, I'll get those reviews. I have also asked for a broader overview of the extent to which Estonia has been associated with Estonia, which is why Estonia received attention in the context of international money laundering. Certainly, the state has an important duty of due diligence to stand up for the reputation of its country on various issues, and I am sure that the politicians of both the opposition and the government union will be able to do so with their actual use of words. The arguments given to them may resonate in the international media space in such a way that Estonia's reputation is unambiguously affected. This is a very important task statement. Of course, the central issues here are that we must be able to give them clear answers. But as the Scriptures say, trees are known by their fruitage. This actually means that one thing is rhetoric, the positions of this government, political statements on the implementation of government policy and assurances on the continuation of the country's foreign policy line. The second thing is action, practical steps. I have to admit, I had a very interesting day on Monday. The meeting with a U.S. handler. We discussed issues concerning the strengthening of bilateral alliances between Estonia and the United States. And I hope, even before the summer period, I would say that before Midsummer Day, you will also present the government with the plan for this activity. Estonia's reputation is our national treasure and it is in the hands of all of us. On 1 May in a radio show, Evelyn Kaldoja said that she hopes that those politicians, those people who are not happy with the development of things after the formation of the current government, will not take advantage of this resentment in the domestic political struggle and also take these problems outside Estonia. I am sure that, in the spirit of this call by Mrs Kaldoja, we will act together.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U12	Let us move on to the second question. The question is asked by the member of the Riigikogu Kaja Kallas, the question is addressed to the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige: about the values of the coalition of government. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U13	Thank you, good manager. Minister of Social Affairs! Since it seems lately that through your mouth Jüri Ratas is actually speaking, I have a good opportunity to ask you and Jüri Ratas a question. Do you and Jüri Ratas clearly and unambiguously condemn the contempt of women? Are you prepared to take steps to make your government ministers more respectful of women? Are you unambiguously condemning the derogatory, degrading use of the Minister for the Interior, which is directed against child-guards, women, women's doctors, social workers, equality experts, or those whose dignity you have a duty to stand up for as a member of the government? And also, do you not feel that your work as Minister of Social Affairs or any such work does not make any sense until you, as a member of the government, can do nothing to protect these people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U14	Thank you for your question, dear Kaja Kallas. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! As regards violence against women or violence in close relations, and you also mentioned equality issues here, of course the clear position of the Centre Party, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Fatherland Party has been that we guarantee equal treatment on a gender basis. We are opposed to close relationship violence; we are opposed to domestic violence; these principles are also very clear in the coalition agreement of the three parties. It is true that, in recent weeks, such complex cases, complex issues have come to the media, where the whole rhetoric has not been the most balanced and thoughtful one. At this point, I certainly apologise to all those who have felt personally wounded. Of course, as has been said, this has certainly not been the aim of any party that has created a coalition. As far as questions are concerned to Mr Ratas, I am of the opinion that everyone will answer for himself. Jüri Ratas is certainly, if his work schedule allows, in the future again in Question Time and you have the opportunity to ask him questions. As far as my work as Minister of Social Affairs is concerned, I would not be so critical. The purpose of this work cannot be assessed on the basis of a week or two. I'm sure that's not the case. In fact, we have met with the Commissioner for Equality to discuss these issues, and we have also held internal meetings. We have also had the same points in mind when drawing up the government action programme, and this is close to violence, and this is child protection, and this is a gender pay gap. The issues that must be discussed and which must be dealt with by both this government and every future government are very numerous in this area. I assure you that we will move forward on these issues over the next four years, not back. Such a beginning may be due to this whole climate of confrontation, conflict has often been sought and there is no innocent party here. I am thinking right now of politicians, I am certainly not talking about women now, I am certainly not talking about possible victims of violence. In this case, they are the most innocent and the most vulnerable, and they must be defended by every minister, every member of the Riigikogu, every parliamentary party, regardless of whether he is in a coalition or opposition. Surely this is not a matter of trying to make political points by attacking one person or another. Rather, we need to seek common solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U15	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U16	The point to be clarified is that I also asked you to clearly condemn the words of the Minister of the Interior, which depreciate all the people I listed. Such a clear and unambiguous condemnation would be desirable. My second, more specific question is whether your personal views on the EKRE have changed. Do you think your earlier words are wrong? Let us look at what you have said, for example, on 7 September, and I quote this, there are a number of such tweets here. 'The attack on the Estonian security authorities, the politicisation of the case of treason and the mockery of people on the basis of bloodlines or birth certificates show that EKRE is willing to sacrifice any value for power and vote. " Has this happened to the Centre Party? Is that what happened to George Ratas? Is that what happened to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U17	Thank you for your question. As far as these various statements are concerned, let us be honest now, there have been many of them without saying throughout the history of politics. This also applies to those in this Chamber: some words have been very clear and unambiguously depreciating to women or sometimes to men. Often, yes, women. All such speeches, which are discriminatory and attacking on a gender basis, are, of course, unacceptable to me and I do not consider them right. As far as my previous quotes are concerned, exactly the same way: if we now have to discuss getting through, for example, the Centre Party and the Reform Party, we will find an unspoken number of mutual criticisms, mutual attacks. We have been accused of Kremlinism, tried to sow ethnic hatred within the party, the Centre Party has also accused the Reform Party, the EKRE has accused all parties, all parties have accused EKRE. I think that such a pre-election struggle, that there are different positions, different world views, that there are also different ideologies represented in the present coalition, that is a fact of parliamentary democracy, which is not a problem that should not be ashamed of. The fact that statements are often much more critical in the pre-election situation than they are after the elections is a common phenomenon. This is what we have seen over the last 20 and more years, looking at political rhetoric, mutual exclusion, which has been done in history by the Reform Party and by other parties towards each other. Often, after the elections or during the electoral cycle, these exclusions have not been effective. Serve it as some sort of exceptional case or claim, as you said, that we are willing to do anything for the sake of power, it is certainly natural in itself in the case of the opposition party, but I do not think it is the most accurate description of the situation. The coalition was created between three political parties because of the values that were agreed upon. We have five clear priorities. You can also read them yourself, of course, but I can also report them now: building a family-friendly Estonia; building a coherent society; developing a knowledge-based economy; effective governance, such as implementing state reform and maintaining and ensuring a free and protected state for future generations. These are the values agreed by the three parties. None of these values, I think, are strangers to opposition parties either. And these are the directions that the government intends to work for four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U18	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U19	Thank you. I am a little surprised that only women speak about violence against women and insulting women. When insulted, mocked by a group of people, it offends me as a human being. When insulted to women, it offends me as a man. If insulting is sexist, sexist rhetoric about the President of the Republic is used, it offends me as a man and as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia. And I don't think I'm the only weird guy. Now a question for you. So far, there have been different presidents in the Republic of Estonia, different prime ministers, different governments, but there have never been such tensions between the government and the President as we are now. It's kind of your area of activity. What are you going to do to restore such a, say, good friendship, at least a polite negotiation between the government and the President, which is not tense because of the President? And how could such situations be ruled out in the future? Perhaps it will also improve our slightly fluctuating international renome.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U20	Thank you for your question. I think that politics often tends to be that the situation that is at hand seems worse than before and often seems unique, extraordinary. I read, for example, the analysis of politicians and politicians that appeared after 2015 that there has never been such criticism as the new government that took office. This is an extraordinary situation in 20 years, something outrageous! That's what they're saying right now. We remember the 1990s, the different governments, their relationship with the President, even then, it was not the best way to understand each other. Let us recall, even the previous President, who was often the subject of an extremely cynical and extremely intimidating political debate, on a personal level, already blaming him for the backwardness of age-related peculiarities, which I do not believe was absolutely true. In fact, we have seen such attacks and such criticisms between the members of the Government of the Republic and the presidents of the Republic before. If you ask whether this is a justification or an explanation, it is rather my assessment of the previous situation, which does not mean that I consider it in any way positive or, let us say, suitable for a democratic country. As far as the role and cooperation of the current government and the President are concerned, these meetings have actually been held at a much different level and with various ministers. As we know, there was also a joint press conference in Kadriorg, where the main directions were marked, the main topics that this government has to deal with right from the start. In many ways, this work is precisely about calming society, repeating our values. And there was a consensus between the presidents of the three political parties who took the floor on the ground and the President of the Republic. I think that this cooperation will certainly be mutually respectful, constructive in the future. Of course, certain ideological differences remain; this is simply the heritage of democracy; they need not be ashamed. But I agree that when expressing them, you must, of course, always think about what is the appropriate way, what is the appropriate wording, what is the appropriate form, what can be said through the media, what can be said at meetings between you and me. Because the ultimate goal, I believe, is the same for Members, the Government of the Republic and our President. The aim is to support Estonia's international reputation as well as national unity, actually stand up for all Estonian residents and maybe look for a common section on issues where we can see, even as a result of election results or various surveys, that there are more differences of opinion within the Estonian people than consensus and co-ordination.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U22	Let's move on to question three. The questioner is Maris Lauri, the question is to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, about education policy. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Education! On April 29, the public learned that Jõhvi State Gymnasium Board wishes to move from the year after the year to 2020 to a full Estonian-language study. The board of trustees is known to be made up of people representing the interests of students, parents and the whole region. So we can regard this as, in a sense, a representative body of the school, expressing the interests of both existing and future students. The reaction of the Ministry of Education to this request was strange and surprising. I quote: 'This is totally unacceptable to us. ' What is your position on the wishes of Jõhvi State Gymnasium?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U24	Thank you very much for your question. Dear Riigikogu! It is really interesting to exchange views in this format here in the Riigikogu. Let's see how it works, but there's really more time to ask than to answer. First of all, when I came to Jõhvi, I would remind you that a few months ago Ida-Viru County and the language of instruction in its schools received a lot of attention. I think Jõhvi Gymnasium has received a lot of unearned criticism. Today, the school has made its own decisions. However, the results of the state examinations have been highlighted negatively, especially in February just before the elections. It has been pointed out that the average level of state examinations in this school has fallen as compared to some other schools. Perhaps we should remind you for a moment how these state secondary schools were born. A good questioner remembers it well. But the idea at the time was that individual stand-alone upper secondary schools would disappear on the school network and their students would be concentrated in state secondary schools. Understandably, there must be a concentration of those who took the best results of the comprehensive school exams as well as those whose results were quite mediocre. It is therefore understandable that in such large upper secondary schools across Estonia, the average level may be slightly lower, but this does not mean that the content of the study is weaker in this school. Now for the language issue. Jõhvi Gymnasium is currently working in Estonian. He does not work in Russian to a large extent, just as unfortunately he did in February in this Chamber. First of all, most students study all subjects in Estonian starting on September 1 and until graduation. Some students who are clearly fewer learn up to three subjects now in Russian. So there's no question of percentage: 20, 30 or 40. These subjects, which have so far been taught in Russian and, to my knowledge, in part, have been given to me on the basis of a memo of mathematics, history and Russian itself. What did the Ministry say? As I have learned today, they want Jõhvi to make the same decision as Kohtla-Järve has already made in terms of his state gymnasium. The decision is this: in general, the school is 100% in Estonian, but an individual plan is drawn up for students who are unable to study in Estonian immediately. It is not recommended to give this signal that such a child cannot attend school at all, but to look at his or her learning individually.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U25	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U26	Thank you. I would point out that the council meeting was on April 8, with the public news in the "Actual Camera" on April 29th. And the representative of the ministry began his speech by saying: 'This is totally unacceptable to us. " Further explanations came, which I do not quote, but which are readily available. And it was in this reply that the school and the board of ministers pointed out that they did not pay attention to the issues that you claimed were actually addressed. If you look at the minutes of the Council of Ministers and listen to this news again, it is perhaps clear that these issues were specifically addressed both in the subject of primary school and in the subject of supplementary education. For me, however, the question is why, as you say, the Ministry, I do not know whether, in the last few days, it has changed its position. Why he initially signalled that this was a negative trend, although it is probably a positive trend and even more so, it is a constitutional right to receive education in Estonian. Was it perhaps to give a signal to other regions, to Tallinn, perhaps to other students of Russian-speaking schools, to resist, do not do what you want?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U27	Thank you. Despite the fact that there's two minutes to ask, I didn't quite know where and what signal was sent. I really can't tell you what the Ministry of Education and Research is very good, qualified officials wanting to deliver some kind of signal. This situation is very clear. It is unacceptable that an academically capable young person is unable to begin his studies in 100% Estonian at the end of our general education policy. The position of the Ministry of Education and Research is that this child or this young person must be approached individually. If necessary, it will benefit from intensive language learning and will be supported by various measures. This is unacceptable, not the way schools carry out their tasks in the field of education. At state secondary schools, the academic freedom is to prepare curricula, give subjects, choose methodologies. It is not acceptable to us that some children cannot enter this school. Just like you good questioner, you know, there's been some toiletting on the ground. When a young person finishes comprehensive school with an Estonian language that is not what we expect, it is difficult for him to continue learning at all. Where would he do that? But it's been a peculiarity in this region, and it's all been around in the last few weeks. The signal is still this: when it comes to a young person who is academically capable, he goes to upper secondary school and our common desire is to help this young person in this same upper secondary school. At the same time, of course, our parallel goal is to expand the possibilities of teaching Estonian in kindergarten, so that they do not have to complete comprehensive school in such a way that they have studied Estonian for nine years, but do not even pass the Estonian language exam on the minimum points. But, unfortunately, the current statistics, as you all know, are quite sad. And we need to work together to make sure that the Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve areas are improved. At this end of Ida-Virumaa there are also basic schools where only 20% of the minimum points are passed on the Estonian language exam. This shows the systemic problem, and it also shows that we need to analyse together what support we can give to both kindergartens and schools that still need to be developed in methodology and subject learning. And that is why the Riigikogu has asked for the opportunity to deal with it at the level of the Committee on Problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U28	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U29	Thank you. However, Mrs Reps, the big picture is that over the last year, experts, political parties, the Riigikogu have almost reached a consensus that in fact, it is necessary to abandon the segregated school system and to get all children to study in Estonian. The only party who spoke about learning Estonian before, instead of stinging at Estonian, is the Centre Party. In this sense, congratulations may now be made. Despite the 1:2 situation in government, the government has declared that the school system that divides people will remain. The Estonian language is taught simply. Now, as Minister of Education, are you really happy about this? And what do you say to your main pickers whose very vital problems begin with the school system: their poorer coping, their poorer living and working conditions? It's all in the Human Development Report, but the government has decided to keep it that way. As Minister of Education, what do you personally say about this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U30	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, that election was just-just like that. Let us remember: the debate held before 3 March did not come to the conclusion that our general public opinion is that Russian and Estonian children should study at the same school. I remember a debate where it was said that Estonian children must certainly be able, at least in those areas where Estonians are outnumbered, to study at a separate school. As a result, the coalition agreement states that Kohtla-Järve School will be kept separate. The same debate will certainly continue to be held in Narva. So this statement that there is a consensus that Estonian and Russian children must learn at the same school is not true. I think that Estonian and Russian children should all graduate from school using Estonian. There must not be such regrettable statistics that at the end of comprehensive school we only have twenty percent, or one in five or six young people can only take the minimum points for the final examination of the Estonian language. And that's our common problem. What I will do as Minister of Education is certainly more than a good questioner: we really want our young people to learn the Estonian language already in kindergarten. Then they can learn it playfully and, fortunately, there are very good methodologies. In addition to the language immersion methodology, 53 teachers started to use two languages of play in kindergartens during the previous government. Teaching and playful activities are always in parallel in Estonian and Russian. I'm sure it's one of the great possibilities. What are the options for the future? We know the statistical numbers: the number of Russian schools is decreasing all the time. Changes are constantly taking place and take place in such a way that young people and their parents choose more multilingual learning opportunities. Indeed, I do not believe that the best solution is to close something overnight. It has to be achieved that at first we will have part of our studies and later in a larger proportion in Estonian. To give the same example of Jõhvi, the very big dilemma was in Kohtla-Järve, whether to choose the ratio of 60 to 40, whether the proportion of Estonian 60% is small or large. And somehow in this debate, it was completely forgotten that only three substances were given in Russian in Jõhvi. So it's a long way from that 60%. The process has come to the point that the ratio of 60 to 40 was started and that more than 80% of the studies are already held in Estonian. And it will certainly be achieved that 100% has ever been achieved. I believe that's possible, and pretty soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U31	I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U32	Question four. The questioner is Liina Kersna, the answerer is Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik, on the topic of "The Common Social Policy of the Government Coalition." Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have heard the Prime Minister's assurance repeatedly in this Chamber that the coalition agreement, the real words of the members of the government, above all, reflects the values of the government, as if they did not count. At the government's first press conference, we heard the Minister of the Interior say that it was appalling and unacceptable for him to have some kind of child protection interference in the family's affairs. As you know very well, we were talking about criminal proceedings on the subject of close-relationship violence. I am really curious whether such statements by the Minister of the Interior at a government press conference against the arms of the Republic have any real effect. As your Minister of Social Affairs, for example, did you contact the Minister of the Interior to explain to him what the statutory role of childguards is to ensure the well-being of children?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U34	Mrs Kersna, thank you for your question. This issue is undoubtedly not just serious, but extremely serious. As has already been said, this is an example of rhetoric in recent weeks, which has sometimes gone out of reasonable proportions. Certainly not all the statements have been successful to the end. As far as my relations with coalition partners are concerned, we have talked about these issues with all three coalition parties. As regards the role of child protection in relation to violence in the relationship, as I said in my response to Kaja Kallas, these issues are also clearly stated in the coalition agreement as a priority. And the coalition agreement is still the document on which the government plans its activities. This is the document on the basis of which the government's programme of action is put together, the document on the basis of which ministers will work in the government, on the basis of which the political groups of the three political parties will work. In the coalition agreement, we have made it clear: we prioritise the fight against serious crime against persons, close-relationships violence, particularly sexual crimes against children. Moreover, the point is that we are fighting domestic violence, analysing current procedural practices and designing effective measures, including by complementing laws. And I have no doubt that the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia, Mart Helme, stands in the same way for the implementation of these two points, just as the rest of the members of the government stand. Of course, there is no party in the government, no party, no member of the Riigikogu, no minister, who would in any way like to say that domestic violence is a normal phenomenon, that it is a permitted phenomenon, even less so that it is a favored phenomenon. Definitely the opposite! The steps that the country has taken, you yourself have highlighted in your articles, in your opinions. Support has been given to various support centres, trainings, prevention activities, different lines of advice, including anonymous ways to report when we know our presence at our neighbours, relatives, friends, victims of violence, or even when we suspect something like this. There are anonymous numbers and a victim's helpline open for this and there is always an opportunity to contact the police when a critical situation arises. And that's definitely what I always suggest you do in case of doubt. With such problems, it is better to make sure that doubts are unfounded than to regret later when it turns out that they were not. So, of course, the direction of the government is partly expressed by words, but above all by actions. This work will continue on the basis of the government's action programme and real decisions, and precisely so that there is less family violence in our society, so that there is more understanding. I believe that you will certainly make a commendable contribution here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U35	Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U36	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I hope you've figured out what you've just done. In the Chamber of the Riigikogu, you told us in the eyes that the words of a member of the government mean nothing today. A member of the government can talk unindictably about anything at a press conference, because only a coalition agreement is important. This is a fundamental change in our policies. When Marti Kuusik was forced to resign, you said live "Actual Camera" that your coalition partner needed time to adjust, that they would change day by day, week by week. I don't know if you listened to your coalition partner's leading politicians radio show, where they came to you in a name: 'Tanel Kiki, forget we won't change! ' And now it's my question. What is your hope based on if you still think your coalition partner is actually changing? Or is it that your coalition partner can speak in the face of the Republic's brave no matter what the saliva brings to his mouth?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U37	Thank you. I'd like to start by contradicting the argument, if I may. I have not said such a sentence that the words of the ministers cost nothing. I also have not said that only the coalition agreement should be read. Being precise in my use of words, I said that action is important above all, but, of course, words also have weight. We can get to know the verbatim and see it later. With regard to what my hope and belief are based on, that the party that came to the coalition is different from the party that was in opposition, on the one hand, on personal experience, on the other hand, on historical retrospect. Consider, for example, the creation of the 2003 government: what was the rhetoric of Res Publica coming to the government, how the then Prime Minister Siim Kallas, President of the Reform Party, compared it to the warts. It turned out that a lot of rhetoric was similar, and it was unacceptable because it attacked the country, attacked fundamental values. There were a lot of principles that Siim Kallas, the head of the Reform Party, pointed out as criticism, but nevertheless he came to the conclusion that it was right to involve Res Publica in the government, which was then known to have been done. Political policies of political parties have changed while in government, and pre-election confrontations and statements have often become somewhat different in post-election coalition talks. The parties are evolving in time, the party in opposition is something other than the party in the coalition. The history of EKRE dates back to 2012: seven years of opposition experience; now they have their first weeks of real experience as a coalition party. Let us recall even in 2016 the tone of a somewhat more recent example. Then your party was convinced that the Centre Party would never become a coalition party, that our reputation had been permanently destroyed, that the country had been turned eastwards. These statements are all black and white, you can find and get acquainted with. Actually, that wasn't the case. The best proof of this is the fact that, after the discussions, the Board of the Reform Party specifically proposed to the Centre Party the creation of a coalition. Had there been the same position as in 2016 that the Centre Party was not fit for government, it would probably not have been possible to make such a proposal. I think that just as the Centre Party has become more balanced in the government and certainly much more informed in terms of information, just as maybe the weight of words has changed in a different way than other former opposition parties when they were in opposition. In my opinion, this is likely to happen to the Estonian Conservative People's Party. In many respects, I rely on the statements made by the EKRE's own leaders. Martin Helme has repeatedly confirmed in various radio programmes that, of course, the rhetoric of the opposition and coalition party is different, and said that this transition has not always been the fastest.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U38	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I wish you the strength and fortitude of the Minister of Social Affairs for a very difficult but very beautiful job. But I'm coming back to the subject of child welfare. Apart from such statements, which affected a large number of social workers and, above all, child protection workers, I have also been called because I am also part of the Estonian Social Work Association. People have called because they're worried. They would very much like to get confirmation from your mouth and that direction or signpost of how they must behave. Usually, the problem with the media is that it is too late to intervene. It has now been said: why they intervened, why they went from office, why so early. I don't want to focus on one particular case. In your administration, people in the social field are watching and listening to what the Minister says. They also expect what other members of the government coalition say. What would you say to social workers today, as well as to child protection workers? And second, the question that connects with this subject. From 2014 onwards, funding for asylum has increased from EUR 500000 to EUR million. Let us put aside the roofing money that political parties and ambassadors have placed in this very difficult area. Does the coalition intend to increase these amounts and address not only the consequences but also the causes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U40	Dear Helmen Hunter! Thank you for your question, thank you for your good wishes. I agree with you that this office, which you have also held yourself, is challenging, but very important. And, as you said, it is also a beautiful job, because this area and the topics that need to be addressed are really important to all people in Estonia. As far as children and childguards are concerned, in fact, I have already spoken on this subject some times, mostly through the media. Understandably, every publication cuts down the comments, as its news format requires. My message is very clear: of course, if there is a problem, there must be intervention. Of course, the role of all of us in society is to notice these things. Of course, domestic violence is never an internal matter of any family. Of course, there must be an end to all forms of labelling, accusation, debate about whether they did not do anything wrong themselves. The victim is the victim of the word is very clear, very specific in Estonian. It's the vigilante who's responsible. Childguards do a very grateful job in Estonia, a very hard job, a very soul-stricken job. Indeed, there are cases where criticism is being made, as you said, that it was too late to intervene. Sometimes they tell you why you're interfering. A parent often tells me why you're interfering, because he thinks everything's fine, and then you may never hear thank you. I do want to thank and congratulate all child protection workers in front of Parliament, associations involved in combating violence against women, asylum workers for their work. This is very important, it must be continued. And, as I mentioned, all of us, 1.3 million people in Estonia, must contribute when we see a child in need. There is a children's helpline 116111, there is an opportunity to get information from the website kindergartenbi.ee, to get answers to questions anonymously and to report some cases. As has been said, if there is a critical situation, if the health or life of a child or an adult is in danger, then you need to intervene, call the police as a matter of urgency. It is difficult to live later with the fact that I missed the necessary speech, perhaps out of comfort, maybe ignorance, maybe involuntary intervention in the home affairs of another family, let it be said once again that this 'intervention' is the wrong term. After that, you can regret it for the rest of your life. As far as helping children is concerned, the government's programme of action is still being put together, the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy are still pending. Therefore, no major financial leaps can be allowed at this time. Of course, for the Ministry of Social Affairs, this is a priority, a subject that needs to be addressed. This is an area where there is a great deal of need to improve the various counselling programmes and prevention. Once the problem has arisen, it will be more difficult to resolve it ex-post, to find a suitable solution for all parties involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U42	Let's keep going. Today's fifth question. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U43	What is the reason why you stop dealing with questions when we have more than half the time ahead? Do you think the last questions need to have more time? We have some interested people who want to ask, after all.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U44	Thank you. No, the last questions won't get any more time. The format provides for two minutes for the questioner and three minutes for the respondent. But we agreed at first, and I announced that we were going to do so, that there was one specific question from the registered questioner and one additional question from the floor. Since the format is in use for the first time and there are eight questions, if we can manage the answers more quickly, at the end of Question Time, each member of the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to freely ask questions to the ministers who are in the Chamber today, the word will be given according to fingering and speed of response. This has been the practice so far, and I think we will continue to do so. But let's go on: the fifth question, the questioner is Aivar Sõerd, the answer is Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Pension policy. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U45	Good President! Dear Minister, Today, Statistics Estonia reported that in April prices increased by 3.2% on an annual basis, and administratively, the regulated prices of the country increased even more, by nearly 4%. If we look at this price increase by component, we will see that it was the costs of home, food, fuel, transport and services that increased the most. They are also cost items that mostly affect pensioners. You yourself have said that the average pension in Estonia is too low, the number of pensioners in relative poverty is increasing, and a large proportion of the elderly live below the level of human dignity. In the electoral platform of the Centre Party, which you yourself led, the first position was an extraordinary pension increase, which was foreseen as early as 2020. If we look at the coalition agreement, we will see that the point of extraordinary pension increases has been formulated so vaguely that it means nothing at all. That's why I'm asking you, is the Central Party government to which you belong going to carry out an extraordinary pension rise next year, or has it proved to be an empty promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U46	Mr Sõerd, thank you for your question. I will start from the back, but for your question, from the front: from the price increase. Of course, price increases can be regulated to a certain extent by the state, but just as the worldview of the Reform Party has been rather the case, it has to be said that the country's role is not to shape prices. As far as the example of fuel and transport is concerned, one might ask whether these earlier increases in excise duty were fully reasonable and justified, or whether we are now seeing a somewhat too rapid rise in prices and the overall increase in prices for products and services. In any case, I agree with the debate on this subject, it may be discussed. As far as the emergency pension increase is concerned, this remains a priority. In the coalition agreement, however, it is quite specific: 'We aim at an extraordinary increase in pensions in order to improve the livelihood and well-being of the elderly. ' This is a much more specific promise than would probably have been in a possible coalition created by many other parties. An extraordinary pension increase, as such, is a value worth taking care of. If we are just talking about indexation, then really, this year, the average old-age pension for 44 years rose by 8.4% to 483 euros. This is an important increase, but it is often not enough to reduce the difference that we see in comparison with both the limit of relative poverty and the minimum wage. This gap has grown over time, the minimum wage is moving well forward. The real possibility of exceptional pension increases naturally depends on financial resources. It is true that, as a result of the current basic law on the state budget, and also as a result of so far, a conservative fiscal policy that has been pursued by all previous governments, the possibility of implementing it in 2020 is certainly a matter of question. That is why we did not put it so ambitiously in the coalition agreement. As always with the coalition, the thoughts, goals, wishes, requests, goals of several parties have entered into the agreement. It was not possible for any political party to dictate that this or the other issue must come at the expense of anything else. The major objective is to finance research and development, including wage increases in the social sector, education, the cultural sector, internal security, the construction of the eastern border, these places with financial needs are very numerous, and this is not all a matter of negotiation. As Minister of Social Affairs, I am, of course, looking out for an extraordinary pension increase to take place sooner rather than later. I have not begun to question the necessity of this. I think that the fact that the government that ran Estonia repeatedly raised the pension in exceptional circumstances between 2005 and 2007 was the only right thing to do. In retrospect, no one doubts that. It has been discussed that the average old-age pension would be 100 euros lower today than would have been the case in the coalition of the three parties, under the leadership of Jaak Aab, the Minister of Social Affairs at the time. I think it will be the same in the future: once this government has finished its work and made an extraordinary pension rise, it will certainly be seen as the right step.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U47	Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U48	Thank you. Dear Minister, I still have to go back to the question and specify a little bit. You referred to history. Indeed, in 2006, the first Andrus Ansip government did implement an extraordinary pension increase, but the government led by the Centre Party has failed to do so despite promises. You said that in April pensions increased by 8.4%, but as Statistics Estonia's data suggests, almost half of it, if we look at only home expenses, food and fuel, has been eaten up by price increases. I'll ask you more specifically. At the moment, the budget strategy is either halfway through or it will soon have to start rounding up the figures there. All ministries have submitted their proposals to the Ministry of Finance for the next budget strategy. Did the Ministry of Finance, under your direction, propose that the Ministry of Finance take into account the extraordinary increase in pension in the budget strategy and, if so, what amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U49	Thank you for your question. Let's go back to history, as you requested. It is true that Andrus Ansip was the Prime Minister at the time, but I think it is no coincidence that both the Central Party and the People's Union of today's Conservative People's Party were members of the coalition. It is precisely with the agreement of these three parties that these extraordinary pension increases were born, unlike all the following Reform Party governments from 2007 to 2016. Ten years after that, we didn't see the rise. So there could probably have been a part of the coalition, both the predecessor of the EKRE and the Centre Party. As far as the current RES negotiations are concerned, it is true that there are certain issues where a 'political agreement' is needed to know where few limited financial resources are to be allocated. The extraordinary pension increase is one of the issues in which we have not made a request from the Ministry; it is rather a place of political choices, decisions that the three political parties will negotiate in the coming weeks to clarify whether and to what extent it is possible to change something. For example, changes in excise policy have been mentioned, and there has also been talk about the proposal put on the table by the Fatherland to increase the tax-free income that children pay. Similarly, this includes extraordinary pension increases. In addition, there are nuances, perhaps general adjustments to the tax-free tax reform, which specifically concern the elderly, such as the issue of survivor's pension and its inclusion in the tax-free income. These proposals have already been partially forwarded to the Minister of Finance, partly at the final stage of the negotiations. As has been said earlier, the state of the state budget options is somewhat worse than it seemed before the elections. This has been acknowledged ex post by all political parties, including representatives of the Reform Party, who have said that it is obvious that the promises that were made before the elections, which I think was then on the electoral platform of the Reform Party, if I am not mistaken, for EUR 1.4 billion, would not be real today in full. The same is true of the Central Party platform, which at that time had promises of EUR 1.5 billion, or the same order of magnitude. Of course, in full four years today's budgetary perspective will not allow them to be achieved. However, the extraordinary increase in pensions is precisely one of the specific objectives that has therefore been recorded in the coalition agreement that it is either the first among our priorities or one of the first ones that we want to do in this four year period. Whether it comes in 2020, 2021, 2022 or later, this is already demonstrated by the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U50	Please! Mr. Jürgen Ligi has a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U51	Thank you. Mr. Swing, I suggest you make an effort. You're a young man. You're not done yet. You can practice answering questions without commenting on the questioner, opponent and past. Just answer the question! It's very Savisaar and very Jüri Ratas, if you put in any answer, that the Reform Party used to be, and so did the others! It's just lame, it makes me look bad. But my question is about pension increases. It was very cynical to allow such a thing. In the current demographic situation and at a time when you have created a structural disadvantage, it is extremely cynical to talk about exceptional pension increases. That's not possible. Look at the budgetary situation, look at the demographic situation! I suggest you don't force yourself to make that promise happen, here are such big numbers involved. On the other hand, one extraordinarily cynical thing went into the coalition agreement, it's the dismantling of the second pillar. If the point of your promise is that pensions are too low and need to be raised, then the change that went into the coalition agreement, that is, the result of making the second pillar optional, is that pensions will be even smaller. These numbers are on the website of the Ministry of Finance, I believe, still exist: because of the generation, there are already 30% lower pensions. How do these two things fit into your head at the same time, first raising your pension and, second, reducing your pension? As Minister of Social Affairs, how do you explain the creation of a situation where the old people will be essentially in deep poverty in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U52	Mr Ligi, thank you for your question. Thank you, too, for the suggestions. Surely we are all constantly learning how to answer questions and how to remain polite and how to do so when asking questions. As far as reference to history is concerned, I think it is still important. Understanding history, knowledge, knowledge, including the recent history of politics often helps to understand the context. This may help to explain that some, as has been said, an extraordinary situation does not really exist; it may just seem that way because the memory of a person is often misleading; the memory of a person is selective. It is natural that we all perceive today's situations more topical than what happened in the past, that is understandable. As for the emergency pension increase, I didn't quite understand you. I have read the electoral platform of the Reform Party; there was a promise to raise the pension of 200 euros over four years. True, the words 'extraordinary pension increases' were not included, but an increase of EUR 200 would mean that the average old-age pension would reach EUR 700. I do not quite understand how this can be done without an extraordinary rise, and exactly the same way I do not understand how this would be less burdensome to the budget than, for example, what is now. . [[Voice from the floor]] No, I'll get it. I am simply asking whether this is your position or the position of the Reform Party that pension increases as such are in any way a contra-indicated issue. I don't think it is. As far as the structural balance is concerned, it is true that this is, of course, important. But we also have to take into account that for a person whose daily food basket is already poor and, as your colleague Aivar Sõerd pointed out, whose daily livelihood has already been aggravated by the increase in prices, this argument seems to be that the budgetary balance, the long perspective and everything else, inevitably less urgent than daily coping, the payment of daily bills, the payment of daily expenses. For this reason, however, I maintain the view that it would be dignified, sensible and socially caring from the point of view of the state to find resources for extraordinary pension increases, and this could be done. As far as the second pension pillar is concerned, the comparisons you referred to were probably made in the light of a situation where this pillar would not exist at all. I think you'll agree. This was not a comparison with the system proposed by the coalition, which provides for voluntaryity, which provides that a person has the opportunity to withdraw money, not an obligation, and which provides that people will continue to join the system automatically. Of course, all calculations and analyses must be carried out. These amendments shall not be made in such a way that they are presented and shall be adopted within a month. It all needs to be analyzed. These are important changes. I fully agree that this is a long-term issue; it is a question of what will be our own pension, what will be the pension for future generations, how many pillars it will be. Today there is a three-pillar system, the third one operates on a voluntary basis. These debates must be held and, of course, it must be seen in this context that it is also possible to guarantee a decent old-age pension for those who, for some reason, decide to exit, for example, the pillar system and not invest money through different accounts, but to use it in current consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U53	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U54	The next question is Dmitri Dmitrijevil, Minister of Education and Science for Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister for Education and Science, The establishment of a new development strategy 'Estonia 2035' has been initiated under the leadership of the State Chancellery. At the same time, many other development plans, including the Youth Development Plan, will soon be repealed and will expire at the end of next year. As we often stress the importance of the youth field and the need to involve young people, I would like to know what happens next. Will there be a separate youth development plan for the new strategic planning period, or is there something else planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U56	I'm sorry! The procedural question is Jürgen Ligil.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U57	We started by changing the Rules of Procedure. Did this change include that Question Time will be the coalition's interlocution class in the future? We made Question Time longer so that the opposition could engage in dialogue with the government, which is a very rare rarity. But at this point there's going to be this self-questioning, self-advantage dialogue. Is that really the point of the Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U58	Thank you for your question. Question Time is intended not only for the opposition but also for the coalition. All ambassadors, regardless of their political affiliation, may ask questions. The argument that members of coalition parties could not do so is quite surprising. Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U59	Thank you very much for your question. The question was, I got it, two questioners. Mr Jürgen Ligi was concerned whether members of the Riigikogu could ask. They might ask. Let us hope that there will be more of these questions by next week. Indeed, before the elections, but perhaps even a little longer, it can be said that for six months there has been a major debate about whether or not the youth sector should have a separate strategy. The Youth Round Table will be held at the Ministry of Education and Research and youth representatives from the Estonian Association of Youth Associations (ENL) have repeatedly raised the same issue. Both the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Education and Research have considered two possible scenarios possible. One is that there are more cross-cutting strategies than 48 existing strategies. I believe that the Riigikogu will also deal with this issue in the coming months when discussing the future of strategies and development plans and trying to find a common part of them. A very simple example: yesterday and the day before yesterday, there was a debate on the links between entrepreneurship and science, we discussed how to link the very important issues of innovation, research, entrepreneurship and the public sector so that there would be a common strategy in the future. It has been proposed that education and youth should not have separate strategies but should have a combined strategy. However, it has to be said that, since we have stood out at international level, both at OECD and at European Union level, by having had a very strong youth policy, it is still a great desire for young people to be dealt with in a separate strategy. Consequently, this question has also sounded more than once in this Riigikogu. Today it has been agreed that we will find a common part, we will see what the common part of the language, education and science will be. Rather, the direction is that the youth sector could have its own clear and strategic development plan perspective, as young people still have those issues that they would like to address separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U60	Specific question, Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U61	In addition to the Ministry of Education and Research, other ministries plan youth work measures. As I myself have spoken more on issues related to the health of young people and low mobility, which are more related to the Ministry of Culture through sport, I wonder whether and how other ministries will be involved in the process of developing a new strategy for youth.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U62	Thank you. This issue has also been raised both at the youth round table and more widely by young people. It should be recalled that the issue of youth was also on the table several times during the EU Presidency. This is one of the European Union's common policies. What do the young people say? If, for example, they are included at council level, we have youth councils or, more generally, roundtables at ministerial level, but I hope that the Riigikogu committees will listen more and more to signals from young people, then this tends to take place in traditional areas. The good questioner himself mentioned the culture and sport sector, one can mention the education sector, if it goes well, young people will be involved in the social field on certain support or social risk groups. Young people themselves believe that they are not sufficiently involved in all areas. They'd like to talk a lot more about different subjects. I believe that all members of the Riigikogu who have contacts with young people, especially if these contacts are in local government councils, will see that young people are very aware of what they want. Young people would like to share on environmental issues, for example, as well as on health issues. For example, detailed planning is an interesting topic. Young people take a different look at today's urban plans and discuss what proportion is there for social purposes, for example. This is why, at every step and every moment, if possible, young people recall that, now that new plans are being made at both Riigikogu and government level, at executive level, it would be very nice and strongly recommended to involve youth representative organisations and young professionals. Perhaps the first briefing will also suit such a lovely appeal to you from the young people themselves, who are very much asking for them to be involved, they are ready to come to the various committees, both to the committees of concern and to the committees of content. Youth umbrella organisations are really very strong and young people are happy to come along. So that's the signal from the young people. Indeed, the Riigikogu will discuss a great many major development plans and strategic plans next year. In particular, when drawing up long-term plans, such as those from 2030 to 20302035, which are clearly targeted at young people, the future, their involvement would be appropriate. They themselves bring out environmental and planning issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U63	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U64	Next, Tõnis Mölder asks, the question is for Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! As we can see, Question Time has already been quite long, and the social and health sectors fascinate everyone, both opposition and coalition politicians. Power and strength in this hard work! It seems to me that the subject matters to everyone and is very meaningful. I must say that in my previous life, I have had contacts with both the social and health sectors, and I have very much liked the speeches that have specifically touched on alternative medicine, and this very vigorous intervention in this matter. So enthusiasm, strength and strength! But my question today is not about alternative medicine, but rather about informal care and the burden of personal care. Estonia is known to be an ageing society. Issues relating to informal care are very difficult for loved ones and perhaps for the whole human community. There is certainly a role for the state and local government here. I know that the previous government adopted a plan to solve the long-term care problem. I am particularly interested in the position of today's government coalition on the issue of informal care and a longer vision in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U66	Mr Mölder, thank you for your question. Thank you for your congratulations. This is, of course, positive if these issues matter to people, and I think that they matter to both the people in this Chamber and the people in Estonia in general. As far as the reform of long-term care is concerned and these ideas are concerned, the joint parts of the three parties are very large. This was also seen during the coalition negotiations. I believe that this could even be extended: if the Social Democratic Party and the Reform Party had also been at the table, there would probably also have been an understanding that we need to increase the volume of social services provided at home, we need to improve their quality and, if necessary, improve the availability of a nursing home and reduce our participation. These issues are just so important. We can see that 70,000 people care for some of their loved ones. These people are therefore either completely or partially away from the labour market, they are unable to realise themselves to the desired extent, and the state also misses a considerable part of the tax. We can see that there are 80000 service places in total for long-term care services provided by the state, but there is a real need of over 130000. So this is definitely where we need to move forward. As regards the plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs that you referred to, it was indeed, in December 2018, submitted to the government. The government took note of that at the time. The agreement was that the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, would develop implementation and financing schemes for measures to create a long-term care system and submit them to the 2020-2021. In the course of the negotiations on the national budgetary strategy for 2008, the Commission adopted proposals. That's what we've done. What are the main objectives? The idea and main orientation is to increase the volume of services supporting home living, community-based services and service houses, improve access to nursing care services, as well as the provision of support services for non-formal carers and establish the principles for paying for needs-based services. Local authorities have a very important role to play here; it is precisely in cooperation that these issues must be resolved. According to the Local Government Organisation Act, social welfare is known to be one of the tasks that must be dealt with. We need to find a reasonable balance and a shared role between the three parties in general, which concerns the person and his/her loved ones, the local government and the state, in this case the level of government, so that it can be decided what will be a reasonable funding scheme, what will be the cost coverage in a nursing home, as well as in a home service, and what must be a sensible 'law framework'. All these proposals are still planned to be submitted during this month to the Government of the Republic's Cabinet meeting and, consequently, financial requests have been prepared for the budgetary strategy of the country for the next four years. What are the exact possibilities, as is still evident from the previous points, but this direction and the importance of the area are, in my opinion, a very clear priority for all three political parties during the coalition talks and also in subsequent discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U67	Thank you. Specific question, Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, first of all, thank you for your answer. I sincerely hope that this important issue will also be reflected in the budget strategy and that we will be moving forward in this area with much greater steps in the next four years. But, as we know, before the elections, a very strong debate was about whether and how much the country should provide support to its loved ones in paying for a nursing home. That is what my question is about. We are well - known to all of us, and we would all like to grow old with dignity at home. I'm asking for both the government and your personal opinion. Would you rather be in favour of the state and local government providing support services and care services to older people in a home environment, or should the state and local authorities still offer people as easily as possible, and why not, in cooperation, I mean financial co-operation on home care? Which is the environment in which you think people can age with dignity?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U69	Thank you for the clarification. The short answer would certainly be to contribute in both directions. As regards the individual's own desire and often a reasonable arrangement in some ways, I feel that the provision of such home services, social services at home, is important, this possibility should be extended. I think that everyone in this hall and, in fact, all the people of Estonia know themselves in the circle of acquaintances, in the circle of relatives, among grandparents, people who receive these services. Often, in the context of my relatives, I can give an example of the fact that a person still prefers to live in his or her own home. This is human nature, especially for the elderly generation, who are accustomed to having a home for decades, a home may have been inherited from generation to generation, a home is not a place where people move out very easily, and housing is not often changed. If it is possible, if a person does not need support and help 24 hours a day, we are talking, for example, about people who may need support in organizing their homes, shopping, such simple services, cleaning up, I am not going to go to the details here, then it is unlikely that it would be reasonable to offer and guarantee a nursing home, either financially or in the light of the person's own emotions and preferences. Rather, it is really more important for these people to put emphasis on this, just as the Coalition Agreement states that the volume and choice of social services provided at home will be increased and their quality improved. But at the same time, as has been said, we also cannot overcome the fact that there are people who are regrettablely growing in numbers, as a result of the fact that we have an ageing society that needs a continuous service, who may not be able to cope independently at home, and for whom it is reasonable and necessary to find an opportunity, taking into account the resources of the local government, the state and the person themselves, by jointly contributing to ensuring that the place of care is secured. We know very well why this problem is so acutely raised. The reason is that the average old-age pension, as mentioned before, is significantly lower than even the minimum wage and is also significantly lower than the average monthly housing allowance. Now there is a situation where children or other relatives, and in certain cases the local government, are very often required to contribute. People often have to give up this service or move away from home looking for more favourable solutions. It certainly does not match the principle of guaranteeing a life of human dignity to all of our people. All these issues are addressed by this reform of long-term care. These solutions will not come about overnight. It takes years to bet on it, but we need to move in that direction, because this problem does not end in itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U70	Thank you. There are no more speakers on this issue. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U71	Erki Savisaar next asks the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Social Affairs! On 4 February, including as Head of the Prime Minister's Office, you said that the main objectives of the Centre Party after the elections included the continued shortening of treatment queues among other important things. You have also repeatedly spoken in the media on this issue later, and you have also formulated it as one of your main priorities, which you wish to do in the ministry. This topic is also known to be mentioned in the coalition agreement between the Estonian Central Party, the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Isamaa Party. This point is worded as follows: 'We will improve access to medical care and shorten the waiting lists. " From the above, my question arises. We know that the issue of the order of treatment is a long-term problem. It is also known that the previous government allocated long-awaited additional money to help address this concern. How, though, does the new government plan to proceed by shortening the order of treatment? What are your plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U73	Thank you for your question. I'll start with that decision of the previous government. I would like to acknowledge here the entire previous initiative of the coalition, the Estonian Centre Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Fatherland, and the decision to really channel additional funds into the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, namely on a sustainable basis, not on the basis of a one-off provision, contributing 7% in 2018, 10% in 2019, 11% in 2020, 12% in 2021, and 13% in 2022 and thereafter on the pensions of "unemployed old-age pensioners." This solution is very important; it precisely ensures that when people leave the labour market, they retire when they reach retirement age, the proportion of health insurance contributions does not fall in sum, but that the money that is collected remains broadly in the same proportion. Therefore, this specific decision will also help the government to take positive steps; it will help the sickness fund to channel the available and additional budgetary resources into reducing the number of treatments. For example, last year's priorities (we have talked to the Health Insurance Fund) were the treatment of children, the treatment of internal diseases, cardiology, oncology, haematology, eye diseases, endoprostheses, as well as the follow-up treatment of general surgery, psychiatric and orthopaedics. The priorities for the coming years are also broadly in place. These same areas will, of course, receive this funding on a permanent basis, not as a one-off allocation, but will be an additional way of shortening treatment queues and improving access to treatment. In addition, there is the issue of general surgery, gynecology, orthopaedics, psychiatry, cardiology, additional contributions to the field of internal diseases in the coming years. We have also met with the Health Insurance Fund on these issues. Of course, money is not the only component here, money is an important component, but we also need to move on to developing digital registrations, offering different e-consultations, using digital solutions, making the most of the money and not being in a situation where a person is listed with a number of service providers, but maybe in the end there will not be an appointment, the doctor will wait empty and the other patient will either receive the service later than he could have, or get it more uncomfortable for himself. Such questions also need to be taken forward. I also consider it more important to refer to this, of course, to the health behaviour of all people, starting from childhood, it is a movement, a healthy diet or a treatment based on the principle that a person who has studied this field for years is likely to be a better counselor than a so-called doctor Google or, let's say, self-proclaimed doctors offering chemicals. It's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U74	Thank you. Specific question, Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue on the same subject. Although there is very high quality medical care in Estonia, despite the additional millions allocated to health care, access to the doctor remains a problem. It is not uncommon for people to make the most of themselves when they check in with a doctor and to register with several doctors, just in case, which poses a risk and problem of so-called empty registrations. This is an easy way of saying that there is a doctor, there is a time, but there is no patient at last. At the same time, there are people in the queue who have urgent concerns, but it will only be resolved in several months' time. There is a situation where the digital registration systems of different medical institutions are not compatible with each other. The new coalition agreement states that the established power union is planning to accelerate the introduction of digital transmissions, e-consultations, digital registrations and other digital solutions. What is your view of the possibilities? When is digital registration expected to take place?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U76	Thank you for your question. I'll start with a bigger one. The truth is that eHealth and all such digital solutions have been our country's business card abroad for decades. It is our neighbouring countries, the European Union in general and, in fact, outside the European Union that have had a great interest in our e-health solutions. Several people in the Ministry of Social Affairs are involved in these topics, the private sector is involved and the research community is quite active. The introduction of such solutions and transnational cooperation is very important, for example, concerning digital recipes and perhaps in the future also different registration solutions, why not. The government's action programme aims (it has not been adopted), which is our proposal, both within the 100-day plan and within the framework of the action programme, to introduce a digital registration office in regional central and general hospitals as early as August 2019. Whether this is happening exactly within this time frame or if there are failures, it is too early to say today. Work on this is going on a long time ago; it started, of course, before I became a minister; it did not start in the last week. The course and the target are set, the dates are set. As I said, within 100 days, there is a real desire to make it available in the first hospitals or in most hospitals. It is certainly important, as I mentioned earlier, to use and introduce other digital solutions more widely. In fact, the coalition is now talking from head to head about the idea that people could have a personal health plan where even a family doctor would be able to make notes to him. Whether this could be done through today's family medical system or whether another solution should be found must be agreed and discussed a little further. Perhaps these are the recommendations of personal health behaviour, how much you should move, what you eat, what you eat to avoid, maybe on the basis of the individual's cholesterol or other readings. If you look at it a little more ambitiously, with a view to the future, it is certainly possible to make scientific recommendations on what medicines a person should use, what results he will have, what results he will not deliver, and what may be contraindicated, based on genetic studies and genetic samples collected today. It's kind of forward-looking, but actually, it's also a matter of work today. More than 100,000 genetic samples have already been collected, I think the aim is to get 200,000 samples by the end of this year, and this issue must certainly be continued. If we are not road indicators, we are not at the forefront here, then there are other countries, and then we may have to buy in the same services and technologies elsewhere in the future. However, we want to be at the forefront of the digital sector across all sectors in a horizontal way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U77	Thank you. It's about Light Everas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U78	Minister, a lot of strength! We all really need your actions, including us as people in this hall. But my question relates to your answers and I would like to ask you to explain a little bit. The OECD report on the state of health in Estonia points out that the treatment of insured persons is not covered by 12.7%. This is largely due to the way in which sick people get treatment. It is not about double planning or double ranking, just about 13% of people are left with health insurance, without treatment. I'm sure it's nice that you're giving more money, but I'm asking you how much this percentage of GDP is going to be, and what is this dynamic? Today we are in a position where we have financed and financed twice as much health care as the European Union average. What is the future strategy? The OECD report points out that, as one of the few countries, a surprise-surprise! Estonia is the country where the Ministry of Social Affairs has not spent a long time on long-term health policy. In fact, when you look at the law, it turns out he hasn't been assigned that task. It hasn't been monitored either. It has been decided that each year it will be reviewed on what objectives have been and how they will be met, but this has not been done. Now, as a fresh and wise minister, how are you going to handle all these tasks? We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U79	Thank you very much for your question and thank you for your good wishes. I'm afraid we're running out of time to answer the questions you've asked. As for the fact that people are going to lose their treatment, you mentioned that it would be missed in 13% of the population, I understand that insured people, and if you count people who are still uninsured, then we will have a size of 20% of the population, which is, of course, a worryingly large number. I have written down this remark, I will certainly look at the assessment of the house of what these reasons have been, whether it is the question of regional access to health care, perhaps the question of combining people's working time and medical time, or something else behind it. I do not want to speculate here because this is an important issue. As far as medical funding is concerned, health funding in general, you have pointed out that it is on average twice as low in other countries. As Minister for Social Affairs, I certainly believe that there is a need for additional money in this area, which concerns both health and social policies, as well as labour market policies and equality policies, but the financial opportunities have always been to establish a coalition, to agree on a coalition. I attach great importance to the decisions taken by the previous government, which today's government has decided and promised to continue, which will provide the sickness fund with additional resources. As far as other possible revenue measures are concerned, much of the question is whether we are going to review as a whole at some point in time in favour of financing all medical care. For example, when we talk about providing treatment services to uninsured people, if we have to make such a decision (this was also the case when considering a coalition agreement), what will be the financing model? Will the state continue to contribute more, for example, as it currently pays for the elderly, to the share of health insurance for old-age pensioners, are we creating more target groups and at the same time avoiding a situation where some workers are less motivated to pay social tax, for which health insurance is currently available? The issue of what should be the model of funding for the health insurance fund and for all medical care must, of course, be discussed as a whole. The labour market is changing, labour relations are changing, we see a lot of different solutions for private companies, we have a lot, as has been said, of seasonal workers and we see people whose social tax receipts are very different on a seasonal basis and who currently do not have any health security, despite perhaps paying more social tax than the minimum required for a year as a whole. This must certainly be dealt with. As regards the claim that the Ministry has not pursued a long-term policy in the field of health care, it is difficult for me to accept it. I think that the policy view has, however, been forward-looking, also in the view of previous health and labour ministers and in the view of previous governments. Always gets better, sure. Of course, the question is what will be the role of the ministry in decision-making, the role of the sickness fund and how much will it be for the hospital network to decide. So far, such a balance has been found. Whether it should be changed in one direction or the other, it requires more debate already.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U80	Thank you. The number of questions is full.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U81	The registered questions are over, but there's still Question Time left. All ambassadors may ask questions on the spot to the ministers present here. The principles and rules of procedure are the same. So please, live order. Jürgen Ligi, you tell who the question is.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U82	Thank you. Mr. Reinsalu! I will continue with my question, which I asked earlier. I don't know if you're guilty of talking points from Stenbock, that might happen to the Prime Minister's replacement, but you started pointing the finger out that somebody from politicians has said something about someone before. I read you a pretty ugly list of names about the president's abuse, threatening judges and witnesses, and so on. It was a list of a systematic attack on liberal democracy; it was never an analogue of what happened before. I asked what the State Department's rescue plan was to prove to the Western Allies that we are a free and liberal country, not one that appears on the surface of hand signals and speeches on the news. Did I get your answer correctly that that's what you're doing, that you're driving abroad and saying that earlier, but others too, that Ansip said in 2010, and you see, this other man, Kallas, said in 1998? Is that your answer to the efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to save Estonia's reputation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U83	Thank you. Of course not, that is not the case. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will provide relevant explanations if necessary. I think we need to react now. But I noticed that you used the patronizing attitude of Tanel Kiige in the matter, calling him a young man. I recall that the Equal Treatment Act also prohibits age discrimination. Believe me, you can attribute some quality to a person, or somehow ironically, patronizingly call him a young man, but you know, these men in power for decades are no better than the young men and women who come on. Believe me! I recall that on 29 April, European countries celebrated the Day of Solidarity between Generations. Solidarity between generations is what we have to look for. I think that we have all said something that has gone wrong sometimes, whether we are in a responsible position or we have done so in people-to-people relationships. Surely this positive emotion also begins when we say that we are trying to avoid it. We must not remain silent, as I did not remain silent in this Chamber when Tanel Kiige was referred to in this way. I'm sorry that in your time, when you, Jürgen, were in the office of minister, that you, Jürgen, did not discipline me when I was sometimes crunchy, and I did not call you to order, even in the event of those attacks that sent both ERR journalists or the very sympathetic frontwoman of the Reform Party sitting in front of you, who also referred to certain circumstances, these eyes and things. Of course, it is clear that we do not live in an angelic country, we live in a people's country, and people may lose their speech sometimes. But the more important thing is to adjust these things together. I think that this correction must not be done by humiliating, but by trying to find a positive way forward, so that the word does not cause tension, but binds the word. It's very important in this view, I believe, empathy. This was recently pointed out by Mr Pajula in his position. If we could all put ourselves in a different place in this country, believe me, there would be very much less of such contrasting or degrading rhetoric, whether it is discriminatory by sex, age or any other characteristic. We talk about politics, we talk about positions, we talk about worldview, and we dare to debate. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U84	Thank you. The next question is Yoko Alender. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U85	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Minister Tanel Kiik! I would like to ask a question. But first of all, you have been in politics throughout your adulthood and you are certainly very ambitious. I was really sorry today to see how you went to the trouble of minimizing these recent events in the field of political science, to make it all look like rhetoric. However, I would like to thank you very much for apologizing to those people whose work has been humiliated by your coalition partners, who have been taunted, and you also clearly confirmed your outlook and your opinion, your position, your belief that violence in a relationship is not an internal matter of the family. Thanks again for that. Now I ask for your help, because I tend to think that if we present this invitation through the support group of victims of close relationship violence led by Liina Kersna from this Riigikogu, there will be no arrival. Do you agree to invite your coalition partners, starting with the Minister of the Interior and his party associates in the government, to the training provided by the Women's Support Centre and dealing with close-relationship violence, all these peculiarities? Are you willing to invite your colleagues to this training? Maybe that'll help us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U86	Thank you for your question. I'll start with the clarification, if you'll excuse me. Really, I'm 30 years old, I've been in politics maybe longer than a lot of people my age, but I still have a political career for exactly three years, two years I've been in the party before, and now I've been in the last year. In the private sector, I have worked for a total of seven years, part of which is part-time by dividing my time between the private and public sectors. It was just the background. It may often seem that when I started working in 2007, it was as if I had been doing all of this for 12 years in a row. That's not entirely true. With regard to close-up violence, family violence and various trainings, I think it is important that the government as a whole addresses these issues. As I said, in the government's platform of action, the 100-day plan, the first proposals have been put forward on this subject. We will certainly have these discussions. As has been said, I have been in contact with all three coalition partners on this subject and all three have assured me that close-up violence remains a government priority. Of course he is. Just as it received a letter to the coalition agreement, so it has been confirmed by various ministries after the government took up office. In fact, these issues cannot be resolved, as you well know, by the Ministry of Social Affairs alone. Of course, cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice is needed here, and cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research is often also needed. That's a much wider question. It's not a minister, it's not a ministry, it's not solved by any party alone. I think that both you and Liina Kersna's grateful work here is just as much expected and very important. You want to invite the ministers, but I don't think I'm the right broker here. Rather, when Members call, the ministers will certainly consider these invitations very seriously. I am sure that this will also be the case with the invitation of the support group that you have set up. I suggest you first try to discuss these topics among yourselves in the Riigikogu and then invite the ministers you want to invite and move on from there. What can I do, and what can our ministry do? That is the fact that these topics must be kept in orbit at all times. If anything positive can be found in this media background for the last few weeks, maybe it is that the public was reminded once again very clearly that such a question is very important. Today it concerns thousands of people, we do not know exactly how many, it is a form of 'hidden crime'. It was also stressed that even the suspicions, even the accusations that are still in the early stages, are so serious that an immediate response must be made. That's what the coalition partner did. For that, I would like to congratulate them. I think we need to move forward together, essentially and actually addressing this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U87	Thank you. Next question, Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U88	Thank you. The question is for the Minister of Social Affairs, but in some ways it repeats everything before us. The new government to which you belong and whose architects you have been figuratively named has many goals. After all, there is no reason to doubt the need to fill them out when you read these papers. One of them is a family-friendly Estonia, where people feel safe and secure, where everyone feels safe. Today, in the weekly Estonian Ekspress published a brutally straightforward article about the hidden lives of Estonian families. Even if the statistics and descriptions presented there are only 50% true, it is still an incredible material for peaceful people. You have many preventive activities and programmes in the areas of people's life and health. But my question is very simple. As a person and as a minister, what are you going to do to change this situation as a matter of urgency? Although you read out the programs and plans in the previous response, now say a man's word about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U89	Thanks for asking. I'll come back to my last answer. This is an issue that must be addressed by the whole government, it is an issue that must be addressed by the whole state, by the whole society, by people who work in the public sector, by those who work in the private sector, and also by those who do not work at all. What has the Ministry of Social Affairs proposed? We have put forward a number of proposals in the government's action programme, as has been said, concerning the fight against domestic violence, but also related violence in general, including crimes against children. Of course, the issue, as has been said, of prevention is, in many respects, about informing society in this area. The question is also whether there is a need to change procedural practice and legislation. Of course, all of this cannot be changed, as you said, now and now, these things must be analysed and discussed between at least three ministries, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, perhaps more interest groups and other ministries should also be involved. These are problems that have not been resolved, I want to say, in 28 years, but let us be honest, these problems have lasted longer, they did not start with the restoration of independence of the Republic of Estonia. Solving these problems does not work out that one minister decides that life will be better from tomorrow. We all have to work for this. I am certainly ready for this, and I am absolutely convinced that you are ready, too. I see that this is an important issue in this Parliament at all; it is a topical issue; it is also a matter of social debate. I think it's important, it's positive. In the beginning, it is often frightening to notice such problems. It'd be easier if they got caught in the house, but it's self-deception, it's knowing to pee the problem, it's denying the problem, living in denial. This certainly is neither dignified nor appropriate for a hundred-year-old country. I think that now, as has been said, the best thing we can do in all this controversy is, together, to pay even more attention to it. This does not only mean money, it also means the attention of society, the speeches of politicians, the establishment of parliamentary groups, the taking of initiatives in ministries, that is, very possibly, the revision of the laws, so that indeed this information and knowledge can reach those people who find it harder to access this information. As I referred to earlier, children's help lines, victim help pages and, for example, smart parent.ee's website have reached the consciousness of people who do not need it so much, but those people, children and families who need such things more may have been left out of this information. Statistics show this, according to our own research, the press has written about it. It is here that particular emphasis must be placed on how, in cooperation with the private sector and with all the parties involved, we can reach people who have either denied this problem or have not wanted to see it in their family, or have simply stayed away from this whole information sphere. These are often the biggest risk groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U90	Thank you. Looks like we're gonna get one more question. Annely Akkermann, please! I'm sorry! Echo Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U91	Thank you to the manager. Minister Reinsalu! I have listened to your regret that you have never corrected your colleagues, ministers, if they have offended or attacked anyone before. My question is actually short: did you now call on the ministers of this coalition when they insulted women, women's doctors, social workers, childguards, etc.? Have you done this? How have you done this? If you have not done so, can we conclude from this that you do not reject these statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U92	Thank you. The word is free, but the word has power, especially those who bear the responsibility for power. You have to be very observant. Every time there is a chance, you have to be corrected, and you have to be sorry if it hasn't been done in the past. In fact, sometimes the word doesn't mean anything bad, the person who said it doesn't mean it. Mrs Urve Tiidus asked if the Minister of Social Affairs would give a man's word. It was very serious. What makes a woman's word worse in Estonia than a man's word? Believe me, as former Minister of Justice, I know that women are much more law-abiding. However, this is objectively the case, so let us look at the fact that only 5% of prisoners are women. A man's word and a woman's word, I guess, don't have to. At the same time, I saw that Mrs Alender skilfully went back to the question of Tanel Kiigel in the same subject as Jürgen Ligi started that Tanel Kiik as a young man, and brought in the fact that he was like a lifetime in politics. Did you guys notice what happened? Tanel Kiik had to defend himself and present his biographical data. The subject, politics, could no longer be discussed, but rather the age of man was actually brought into play. I would like to remind you once again: if you feel that something needs to be corrected and discussed, it must be done openly, friendlyly and, if necessary, by supporting each other, explaining which terms and what approach might be sensible and what approach might lead to a mistake. Of course, I unequivocally say this in response to Kaja Kallas, that if the use of the word seems to be poor, it must certainly be corrected, whether it be for ministers or other officials, guided, of course, by the fact that there is a responsibility, but also by the very important principle that the word is free.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U93	Thank you. No further questions can be dealt with during Question Time. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-08_U94	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 5th working week session of the first plenary session on Wednesday. Is there a desire to pass on inquiries or drafts? No, it's not. Well, in that case, I'm gonna read a message. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting of the support group for carers and carers in this Chamber, convened by Helmen Kütt. Next up, presence check, please! Well, thank you! There are 82 members of the Riigikogu and there is no 19. As there are no other points on today's agenda, the session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 2.01 p.m.
