ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu and honourable members of the government. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 31 members of the Riigikogu registered their presence in Question Time. The members of the government who answer your questions are Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm and Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. I will give the debate on each issue an opportunity to put forward a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U2	The first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, first questioner Martin Helme. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! There have been a number of political provocations in Estonia in recent months. One was Tarandi's mike attack, the other was Estonia's 200 carts attack. Neither you nor the President, the honourable speaker, could condemn these two provocations, which also had a logical consequence, that is, Estonia 200 continued its provocations and organised some kind of poster action, the content of which was actually the cause of ethnic hatred and social hatred in Estonia. My hope was that the same people would react equally bitterly, condemning this provocation, as you did, for example, when you condemned us in the Forest City case or in the March deportation case for drawing attention to the nation. But you didn't. I am now again offering you the opportunity to condemn this instigation of interethnic hatred by 200 Estonians.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Very honorable questioner! There is no doubt about this: in our society, heads, mouths and hearts must speak, not hands and feet must speak. Of course, I condemn the provocations committed by anyone in any beautiful corner or place in Estonia. I've done it, too. The so-called poster action that Estonia adopted in 200, I had the opportunity to debate with Kristina Kallas in the Estonian Päevaleht and Delfi studio, where I clearly said that I thought that the advertising that was brought to the streets was really, only in one place in the centre of Tallinn, but it did not reduce its influence, people did not understand it or I thought people understood it in a disparate way. In any case, such provocations are also a serious issue in the European Union today if, on the basis of nationalities, we point out differences, I dare say. These same false news is a major problem, so it is a matter that must be dealt with in any case. If you, Mr Helme, now see, Anno Domini 2019, that these are bad things, I am pleased that you have joined this position. Surely we must also oppose populism in society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U5	Martin Helme, the point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U6	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! By the way, I read your party's election program. It was immensely populist. So we have to stand up to it, I agree. If Estonia 200 put up posters, then, I would say, there were mouths and hearts talking, there were no hands or feet speaking. You've lied in some places that you don't want to cooperate with the Conservative People's Party for one, two or three reasons. After this poster incident, can you say the same thing about Estonia 200, or do you have a different yardstick for different parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U7	Thank you. You're good at questioning such thoughts. You mentioned the Central Party program here in passing. I heard it in front of me. I say, in any case, I think it is very good if you look at the positions that have been drawn up by the various political parties on a broader scale. It's worth looking at the Centre Party program, or the election platform. I think there are quite a lot of good and right views. In that sense, I commend you. I congratulate you that you, I think, also want Estonia to be a fairer country, so that Estonia has a more cohesive and solidarity society, so that Estonia is united. In the second half of the question, you came to the point that, if anyone is excluded, should Estonia not also rule out 200 because of this advertising campaign. You know very well that they said the same night when I was wrong to say yes, it was set up for them. I stick to my opinion that the Estonian people did not understand this campaign and it divided society. The next day, Kristina Kallas, the chairman of the party, apologized and put up new billboards. If you feel that you too could move in the direction that heads in Estonian society will not be cut off, and you want to apologize and make adjustments on this matter, then I think it is a move towards a fairer state, I think it is a move towards a more united state, I think it is a move towards a country where we see only one Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U8	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U9	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Of course, when you talk about rolling heads, there is a reasonable suspicion that you are unable to think functionally or understand spoken-language expressions. I hope you understand what we mean by that. You mentioned the necessity of Estonia's unity several times. You have condemned segregation, categorization on the basis of nationalities, but, unfortunately, reading your programme, it is clear that you want to continue to segregate children according to the language of instruction, you want to maintain a parallel society where young people do not even acquire enough official language to go to university and be competitive in the labour market, and by doing so, you create a suitable area for that particular compartmentalisation, populism, incitement to hatred, which Estonia managed to achieve in 200. Do you not think that we should suddenly look in the mirror and really head towards a united Estonia with a common Estonian-language education to be a good government partner to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U10	Thank you. I'm not the one with the honours. Thank you, too, Mr Madison, for working so hard on our election platform. And that's right! When we started to set up the electoral platform, we had a clear understanding that this document, the electoral platform, really must have a long vision for Estonia. This electoral platform must have the confidence offered to the people of Estonia, but there must be nothing missing from it either. It is clear that the electoral platform of the Central Party will be looked at with the best possible view. I welcome this, and that is what we were prepared to do during its preparation. It turns out, rightly, because at the Riigikogu session, as soon as possible, when I have the opportunity to hold a debate with you, two EKRE politicians quote the electoral platform of the Centre Party. Thanks for that. The message from our platform you asked about is very specific. You cannot start studies in Estonian in the 10th, 11th or 12th grade; you cannot start studies in the 7th, 8th or 9th grade; you must start in kindergarten. I am pleased that the Centre Party has not only put it on its own electoral platform, my great recognition also for today's coalition, socialists, Fatherland and the Centre Party, that we have already launched the transfer of Estonian language teachers to Russian-language kindergarten groups several months ago. As far as I know, more than 60 kindergarten groups already have Estonian language teachers working to teach the language better. So it's not upper secondary school, it's kindergarten.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U12	The next answer is Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm, asking Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Based on GDP per capita, Estonia has the largest scissors between Põlva County and Tallinn. There are many other peripheral counties where these scissors are close. The Government of the Republic has given up recognising that we have two different levels of development in Estonia, and has also given up applying for an exemption from Brussels in order to receive less participatory support from the Structural Funds of the European Union. Why is it so, why has the Minister of Finance sitting next to you been opting for such an exception until now, and so has the Prime Minister? How do you, as a representative of the people elected from Põlva County and as a politician, view this gap as continuing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U14	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Thank you, good questioner. I am very pleased that you have brought Põlva to the Riigikogu. It doesn't happen very often. I am glad that I have been able to make a direct contribution to Põlva's development. I have been the mayor for six years, mayor for 11 years, and I remember that Põlva was one of the most capable municipalities in Estonia in terms of both the provision of services and the financial situation. But as far as your question is concerned, this issue is a little broader. It is possible to divide the country into two zones under certain conditions. One condition is that there should be at least 800000 people in one zone, and there are exceptions. On this argument, as if the government had decided to do so, I say that the government has not decided anything by today, the argument is not valid. As far as I know, this will continue to be discussed in the Cabinet on Thursday. I, of course, support the provision of additional financial resources for rural areas. Work should also be done to this end. First of all, it should be examined whether it is so easy to apply for this money. In the meantime, there was talk of EUR 700 to 800 million, and now we are talking about some EUR 100 million. But no matter what million comes to the countryside, there's extra money. The claim that the government has confirmed this is wrong. The second plea, that I have accepted it, is also wrong. I will continue to work to ensure that Estonia at least tries to obtain this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U15	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U16	Thank you. I will take the stand: I must make a remark to Mr Leng that he brings so little of Põlva County's subjects to Parliament. But I'd really like to talk about grants. Last year, the fact that pig farmers gained almost 2 million more breeding aid and the other parts of the sector were left out was quite annoying. Has the Minister learned anything from this and intends to sign a new regulation so that this money can be distributed more fairly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U17	Thank you. I have also been a Member of Parliament, but I have not been so good at linking matters to the fact that the division of Estonia into two regions, the topic of Põlva County and now suddenly we jumped to pig farming. I know that pig farming has been the dominant theme of some politicians for two years. They've been trying to link it to corruption and everything else. Well, it hasn't worked. I had nothing to do with it at the moment when it was set up to divide it into "zones," and so on. This is the political choice that this coalition has made to further support the pig farming sector. All these plagues and all this problem significantly reduced the number of pigs in Estonia, more than 100,000, and our self-sufficiency with pork is about 70%. We certainly cannot accept that. That is the political decision. The government and parliamentary parties must make the choice they support and in which cases. I can say that it is very difficult at all to support the pig sector, because pig farmers do not benefit from direct payments if they do not have a field, and that is one of the few ways in which the country can further support this sector. I am pleased that this measure was implemented because the number of pigs has started to increase, with 11000 pigs present in the herd. I applaud the coalition partners who have approved it. In any event, it was justified that this measure had been implemented in this way. The results show this. An Estonian person can find more and more high-quality Estonian pork on the counter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U18	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U19	Thank you. Dear Minister, Let me come back to the original question. As far as the government's decision to apply for this money is concerned, the decision has so far been essentially indecisive and hundreds of millions of euros remain unused. We had here yesterday in the vote the Free Party proposal to the Government of the Republic for the government to finally make this decision and we would ask for subsidies for the less deprived area with a lower percentage of own participation, under other conditions. It was clear from your words that you basically supported it. Why have you not been able to explain your position to the Centre Party Group? Quite a few people were in the Chamber when it was necessary to vote, even less were those who voted. Only Mr Stalnukhin from your group supported this. What's the matter, what's your general understanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U20	Thank you. I repeat, this has not been decided by the government. One thing is clear: for the next financial period, 2021, even with the best will, it would not be possible to do so; the previous government should then have decided that this exemption would be requested. The next option is to apply for a financial period from 2028 in 2023. I hope that the Ministry of Finance will work on this and find out whether we have this possibility at all, whether it will give the Estonian state an additional EUR 100 million, or whether it will be reallocated within the so-called general money. I think there is a lot of ambiguity today. In any case, it should be certain that the Estonian state as a whole will not lose. Until this is clear, we cannot say that we will or will not receive this money. There's a lot of uncertainty. So in any case, we should discuss this with the Commission and prepare it so that the Estonian state can be divided into two regions. Of course, it is a little saddening in small Estonia that we have not been able to develop unity so far. Indeed, there are some regions in Estonia with a level of 50.60% of the European Union average; the level of Tallinn is 105%. This would be one of the ways to make regional policy. But the second option is that if the Parliament, which will be elected on 3 March, realises that Estonia must be better covered in regional policy, it will be possible to make these allocations directly from the state budget and direct them to regional programmes, that is not what the European Commission needs to do. I know that many parties have a lot of measures in the programme that help to do this, whether these four-line roads are between Tallinn, Tartu, Tallinn, Pärnu and Tallinn, etc. It also helps to catch up with regions. But the European Union certainly does not have to share this money in a targeted way; this can also be shared by the Estonian Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U22	Kalle Palling is asking Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! My question to you concerns environmental policy and, more specifically, waste management. In the last few weeks, we have been able to read that the treatment of the Waste Act has been blocked. Fortunately, I can tell you, he's got away from the stump now. But I want to ask you how it is possible that two sections of government have failed to communicate with each other in your government. For 16 months, the Waste Act has been on the shelf in the Riigikogu. There have been accusations against each other as to why it is not possible to proceed with this law, but it is sad that we have indeed got worse waste recycling figures and therefore, in the worst case scenario in the future, we can be threatened with a huge fine. Is this acceptable to the government you manage, or is it such a small amount of money that you have not paid attention to, personally, to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U24	Thank you, good questioner. The sentence you said is, unfortunately, the truth. If we look at how much waste we are dumping, we will see that landfilling of municipal waste has increased. While this share was 10% in 2016 and 19% in 2017, it was expected to exceed 20% in 2018. I think it is a question of what principle we are working on. This basis should be very specific for packaging, it is the producer-responsible principle. I've read and heard your interviews in the media when you talk about this huge fine, as you said. Fine is the worst-case scenario. I've even heard of you talking about 100 million euros. I have been asking in recent days whether there has been any such signal that Estonia may receive such a fine. Estonia has not received such a signal. When we're talking about huge things, it's more like the giant ads that are in Tallinn, the buses Kaja Kallas and Taavi Rõivas, and the giant ads of Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, but that's why. I mean, the problem is, of course, serious. A solution needs to be found here. One thing is that there still has to be more sorting. According to the Waste Act, the specific fitting of sorting takes place in the municipal waste rules. We know municipalities where, for example, sorting in a building with less than seven apartments is not compulsory. I'm sure we'll go on with this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U25	Kalle Palling, clarification question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U26	Thank you. First of all, the fact is that we have received a very harsh warning. Indeed, if this silence of 16 months had continued, because two coalition partners could not agree among themselves, I think that this fine would have become more and more real. It has been speculated that this would be several times higher than the sugar fine received years ago. The sugar fine was known to be between 30 and 40 million. So I think this magnitude is derived from this, from different conversations. But what bothers me is that while we're organizing a world-cleaning day and wanting to clean up the yard with the help of other volunteers, we're getting the numbers worse. In fact, we are not doing these things because we are facing some kind of fine, but because the environment would be better for more waste to be recycled in order to produce less waste at all. It's just that it's funny to listen to your reasoning, which is all understandable, but at the same time...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U27	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U28	...you have two political parties in your government who don't cooperate, and things are just standing there. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U29	Thank you. I'll come to the beginning of the question first, the line or what you had here in minutes and nine seconds. You were talking about this black script first. I suggest you see that one party has made an ad about bluer sky, greener lawn, etc. Look at things more positively, don't get the worst picture in sight. I don't think that's what you do, Mr. Balling. In this sense, I agree that we need to move forward and that a solution needs to be found. As I said, it starts with how we can motivate people to sort waste more. In particular, this is very clear about how more municipal waste can be recycled. This target, as you well know, will be 50% by 2020. In order to do everything possible to either reuse the waste product or to recycle it as secondary raw materials, I think, we need to work. What you said is a half-truth that we want the environment to be cleaner, and you gave an example of this world-cleaning industry. In fact, we also very much want our future to be cleaner, so that future generations do not have to deal so strongly with the issue of littering as we do. Undoubtedly, if you recall the picture that looked at us on 15 September (talking about Estonia) - I personally put my hands on it, I hope you put your hands on it too - some places were very shocking. The other side is, I think, that if we sort the package out of the garbage, for example, it must be as convenient as possible to give it away. In some places we can see that this comfort has been brought to the back of the home garden or to the home garbage house, but in some places you have to go to the parking lot of the mall with this package.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U30	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! After all, we did not get an answer to the question of why there is a bill on the shelf to avoid this problem if it is allowed to break down stagnation and whatever. But forests also play a major role in the well-being of the environment. Why does today's government put so much pressure on the State Forest Management Centre to fill the state budget? It can be seen that these numbers and pressures have increased in order for the Treasury to be fulfilled. Why, at such a time as the economy is doing so well and taxes are well paid, even though hundreds of millions are going to Latvia, the RMKs are being pressured by such strong logging?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U32	Thank you. On the one hand, if there was no question, then it is difficult to answer. But then again, I wouldn't attack Kalle Palling like that. I mean, he said it himself. It's moving now. However, it is important that we can find a solution for waste. I wanted to highlight another third aspect. One thing is definitely that we can increase the percentage of sorting and significantly increase. The last level we know is 32% in 2017. In fact, we want to move forward next year to 50% of the total. The second thing is the rejection of packages, a very topical issue in my opinion. A better solution is needed here too. I think that this third aspect, I hope, is seriously addressed by the Committee on the Environment, comes into play in the case of the withdrawal of packages, which are proposals from local authorities. I know that the Union of Cities and Municipalities has made its proposals here. The goal is the same: to reach this 50%, to move towards a cleaner environment. If the questioner asks about environmental policy, it is true that forestry falls under it. On the one hand, you know very well that the state has taken it from these national organisations, from which it is also possible to take the dividend. In my opinion, there are a few very simple principles for forest management that we cannot get over or around. One thing is that when we talk about logging, logging must never exceed growth. Now the question is, what exactly do we add to this increase, whether the gilts and the forest massif of adulthood, or whether we take the gilts out of it? I think that the general principle that less has to be cut if more grows, must remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U34	The Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm answers, asking for Henn Põlluaas. Please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U35	Thank you. Last year's drought caused an estimated EUR 150 million of damage to agriculture. EKRE proposed declaring a natural disaster emergency and providing farmers with a helping hand, as other countries do. That is not possible, you announced and offered them a large percentage loan. EKRE proposed that the loan should be 0 percent, and you didn't support it again. Now you intend to pay subsidies for the restoration of grassland damaged by natural disasters, or droughts. I ask the question raised by Maaleht: did the Minister lie, in response to the EKRE's inquiry in October, that there was no legal basis for the payment of grants due to natural disasters?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U36	Thank you, dear questioner. If I answer briefly, I'll say I didn't lie, but I'll try to answer a little longer, because I have two minutes. Why wasn't there an emergency announcement last summer? You know very well that we do not have the law. But I can tell you that, as far as our neighbouring countries Latvia and Lithuania are concerned, there was no declaration of an emergency situation in Latvia last year; the emergency situation was last year when Latvia drowned in a certain region. But you can ask your Latvian colleagues what this added to the Latvian farmer. Announcing it by itself does not save a farmer from anything; it may simplify negotiations with the bank, but it does not cancel any contracts; it does not confer any advantage. Let us look at the subsidies for Latvian and Lithuanian farmers, for example, last year. We paid out 100% of the transitional grants, with an additional 20 million heading for the MES. Since this percentage is 4, it was not because the government wanted to earn it. It is simply the rules of financial organisations that provide that a lower percentage cannot be given. This money goes back to the MES, or to farmers to issue future loans. All of this loan helped 150 farmers, so I think it was the right step to put the money there. If this money had been distributed as subsidies, that money would have reached the farmer in August of this year, and I think that many farmers should have stopped their activities. But there was a question of lying. No, I haven't lied. The definite rule is that none of the things can be legalised afterwards. If you are saying that in January the payment of grants due to the drought of last year should have been legalised, it is a completely strange claim for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U37	Henn Põllamaas, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U38	Thank you. Although the damage caused by the drought was EUR 150 million, you provided farmers with only a large percentage loan, a total of only EUR 20 million, in order to mitigate the damage. It is very inappropriate to call this State aid or support, especially given that very few were actually able to take on this loan and only EUR 4 million had been spent by the end of October. Now you are offering farmers €6.5 million of irrecoverable aid to make good the damage caused by drought. Is it equal treatment when a farmer has to take out a loan, but a farmer receives a grant?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U39	Thank you. I don't know where you came from, what you're relying on right now. We've got this... [[???Hääl saalist: 'Maaleht.'???]] Then please contact this page. I've turned to them several times to apologize, but they haven't, and they haven't contradicted them either. I read the news on the Earthpaper, just like you probably did. But Minister, I think he knows better what's going on. Understand, a good member of the Riigikogu, that there is a common agricultural policy for the European Union. No country can take money out of a wallet and share it with the farmer as it pleases. There are two ways. One is that state aid is being distributed, which is very precisely regulated by the European Commission. I can tell you, Mr Põlluaas, that last year, in addition to the transitional payments, the Estonian state distributed some EUR 60 million of State aid to farmers. The second is de minimis aid, EUR 15000 over three years. So there are common agricultural policy, there are state aid rules, there are other rules governing how a farmer can be supported. If we were to release these rules and each country could freely support farmers, the Estonian farmer would not be able to act in this competition. But I suggest you just check the basic data you're relying on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U40	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! It is not reasonable to compare the payment of crisis aid with Lithuania, because Lithuania paid more than five times more crisis aid, and in Estonia it was less than 1.5 million. But indeed, Honourable Minister, in August there was a rather critical situation when certain members of the Committee on Rural Affairs had a proposal regarding the announcement of an emergency situation. It was not a question of laying down an emergency situation in the law, but of a certain analysis and a sensible proposal in order to alleviate possible contractual conditions. There was no question that anyone should be relieved of their contractual obligations. Today, however, the Committee on Rural Affairs has given Parliament a legislative proposal which, to one degree or another, is also trying to alleviate the possibility for the PRIA to behave legally and not to sanction farmers. Have you reviewed your decision a little bit and supported the draft that has been issued to the proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U42	Thank you for a good question. Of course, this bill was prepared by the Ministry of Rural Affairs. I hope that in my ministry I will also be able to fill the gap that the previous government had not filled in, that it was not possible to declare an emergency, a disaster or something like that. Honourable member of the Riigikogu, I would like you to look at Lithuanian and Latvian practice. Latvia announced an emergency situation the year before. An emergency is a threat to a person's life and health. Last year, Latvia declared a drought disaster. If you find a farmer in Latvia who, thanks to the announcement of this situation, has somehow been released from the agreement, I would be very pleased to know. I have been in contact with both my Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues. It does not directly give the farmer any right to withdraw from the agreement; it is simply perhaps a better basis for negotiating with the banks. But I say that the Estonian bankers have a very respectful and understandable view of the farmer. Only one farmer has approached me with the problems arising from last autumn who has failed to solve the problem, and we have managed to solve it. So this is an over-enhancing problem, but I promise at least that if the Committee on Rural Affairs is able to process the draft, during my term as minister, this gap will also be filled, that there will be no way of regulating it if it is a drought or rainy year. I hope that the Committee on Rural Affairs will process this draft in order for it to become a law. But I can tell you it was prepared at the Ministry of Rural Affairs and at my request.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U44	Answers Finance Minister Toomas Tõniste, asks Enn Meri in one minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Many members of the Riigikogu believe that the state budget is difficult to read and it is not easy to find specific costs and revenues there. We do not know who will be the Minister of Finance in the next government, but would it not be reasonable to now set up a working group in the Ministry of Finance to review the state budget building with a view to making it easier and more transparent? The plan could be that the revised budget structure could be used for the national budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good member of the Riigikogu, good Enn! This issue has really been up for decades. The compositions of the Riigikogu change, people have different wishes, someone finds that the budget is too thick and there is too much information, the other one finds that he wants more detailed information. All these proposals will be taken into account by the Ministry of Finance and will make every effort to make the budget more readable and understandable. Indeed, we are moving towards an activity-based budget in 2020. If so far the main focus has been on spending, then now we would rather focus the talk towards objectives, towards programmes, and thus we will also have a much better view of how much some services can pay, whether or not the costs we do will bring us closer to the goal. This activity-based budget will certainly provide a better overview, as it will specifically identify programmes, programme activities and services, and everyone will be able to look at the topics that interest him and see how much it costs us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U47	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Wouldn't it make sense to build up the budget as a database so that the members of the Riigikogu themselves can fill out successions of different objects, for example how much psychology training at Tallinn University costs, which could then be compared to the cost of psychology training for a student at the University of Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U49	Thank you. I guess there are all kinds of ideas. As I said before, as many as there are members of the Riigikogu, there are so many interesting thoughts about how it would be better to read the budget. But really, to make it clearer, we kind of link budgetary expenditure to our strategic objectives and development plans. The activity-based budget structure is first divided into programmes (e.g. higher education, youth, health care system, children, families), then there are programme activities (e.g. grants and benefits, access to quality health care, our preparedness for crisis situations) and then there are services (e.g. payment of retirement pensions, support centres for women). This will enable both the budget makers, you who evaluate and process it here, and the public to understand our priorities much more clearly, up to that point, whether the service that is expected of the state and what the state offers is at a fair price, whether we can even know how much it actually pays, and whether this service could be purchased cheaper or whether the state really offers it most effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U50	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Aren't you a little hypocritical about this? If you look at this year's budget and the rooftop money, you know where the money goes. The only thing that doesn't appear to be which NGOs or persons associated with them are closely associated with political parties. In fact, it sheds a very bad light on this whole process. But when we went through the ministries' budgets and tried to figure out where the money was going, they were still illegible. I understand that it is more politically useful to show that the roof money is transparent and then to answer the Riigikogu that we have a problem and we will solve it in the future. Please comment on this too!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U52	Thank you for your question. The roofing allowance is indeed, if you could say so, in a sense a small disgrace of the Riigikogu. This has been done over time and has been criticised all along. There is nothing hidden in the budget today; everything is clearly and openly stated. I have really been very critical in the past, when, to a large extent, your party associates have distributed public money, our taxpayers' money, to buy a seat as president of a sports federation and have done so with the help of the roof money. Now, fortunately, this money goes directly to sport, it is distributed publicly, according to a specific system, through the Olympic Committee. In the next state budget as well as in this year's state budget and budget strategy, we have allocated the appropriations we know for sports in Estonia, our top sport, precisely because no one should hide these funds in the state budget in the dark in the light of their personal interests, but because everything would be transparent and divided according to specific rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U54	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas answers the question posed by Arto Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U55	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! In spring, Janek Mäggi became a member of your government, who is more known to the public than a PR and lobbyist. At that point, many questions were raised as to whether a representative in this area could avoid a conflict of interest. You replied that, yes, of course, he must stop all his ties with this communication office and act in accordance with the rules and the law. Real life, unfortunately, has shown something else. We have information that Janek Mäggi is still active at this communication office. Janek Mäggi's name will be the first to look at this company's website on the employee list, on pictures and on Facebook. A Christmas card signed by Janek Mägg came from Powerhouse. It's Christmastime! Do you think it is ethical and in accordance with the law if a member of the Government of the Republic is still active in a lobbying company?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U56	Thank you. I know that this is a person who has been one of the creators, long-term owner and CEO of this company. When I proposed to him to become a member of the Government of the Republic, Minister of State Administration, there was, of course, a discussion on this matter. I will stick to my words, which you have mentioned. I have said that there can be no conflict of interest here. I will continue to take that view. As far as I know, there is no conflict of interest in his activities, he has withdrawn himself from all the leading positions. I really can't comment on this Christmas card, but after Question Time, I can ask him for an explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U57	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In general, it seems that your government has such an attitude that conflicts of interest, whether or not they relate to the Centre Party, are being overlooked. A similar example is the Ministry of Rural Affairs, where the people directly benefiting from the sector are in the minister's advisory chamber and are also getting paid for it. Do you think it is transparent to those who are not in the decision-making process? I will go back a little bit to one of the previous questions: is it not the beginning of which is that one sector is unduly favoured, because these people are in the hands of these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U59	Thank you. I certainly don't agree with your accusation you filed at the address of today's government. I understand that, on the one hand, the problem for you is that there are people in the advisory chamber of the Ministry of Rural Affairs who are getting paid and who are operating in this sector, and the end of your question was that is not the reason why this sector is getting more attention. In essence, I did not understand whether you would want this sector to receive less attention or not. In any case, I am completely, 100% of the opinion that it must be transparent, fair, fair competition-based, and it must also look fair and transparent. Speaking of this fee, I really have not allocated these fees to the members of the advisory chamber of one, another or third minister, but I do remember when we discussed, for example, the formation of a nomination committee at the beginning of this government. You remember how serious the problems were with the board members of the state companies until the court cases. It was our decision that such a symbolic remuneration for those members of the nomination committee who are engaged in business every day and also stand by for the government's councils to do well should be if they have come from outside the public sector. Well, that was a common opinion. Some members are also on the Ministry's payroll and were not granted this premium.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U60	Arto Aas, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U61	Thank you. Prime Minister, you understand that in the light of the news of the last few weeks, which has reflected very much the funding schemes of the Centre Party, the public has a heightened interest in really being honest. I therefore return to the question of Janek Mägg. § 4 (3) of the Government Act states directly that a member of the Government of the Republic must not be outside the official duties of any other office or act under an employment contract or a service contract, and a member of the Government of the Republic must immediately inform the Government of the Republic in writing if he is engaged in or intends to engage in an activity outside the official duties as an undertaking. These provisions also generally go under the so-called anti-corruption law. So how is it now, whether you know and be dim, or whether Janek Mägg has lied to you? He continues to operate at this communication office. Indeed, this matter should be pure and correct, both in substance and seemingly, but unfortunately it is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U62	Thank you, good questioner. In my opinion, the fact that the Reform Party is going to teach how to handle the party's funding is very commendable. Those problems that the Centre Party has had, I have never pushed into the background. On the contrary, I have spoken of them openly and also in this Chamber. When asked, I've answered. I have said that these questions must be resolved. Many of them have been resolved, some have not yet been resolved. I hope, Mr Aas, that you did not put this first question as such a clever politician. If you send me a question and you write that this is about a conflict of interest, it is quite difficult to foresee a question. You've prepared well, I tried to do a little homework between these two questions, as much as I could. You're accusing Janek Mägg of a Powerhouse website. My argument is that he's not marked as an employee there, he's marked as a founder there. There's a very big difference. I think that is the problem when such half-sisters or false news come to Estonian society, especially in the next six or seven weeks. I even understand your pragmatic interest. But you did not say on your first question that Janek Mäggi is a founder on the Powerhouse website, not an employee of this company, and there is a very large difference. Do your homework better next time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U63	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U64	Asks Mart Helme and still answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U65	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! When you answered Mr Helme's question, of course, you did not say whether you would rule out cooperation with the provocation party Estonia 200 or not, in the light of all that has occurred in their activities over the last few or three weeks. We missed that answer. But the question I am asking now relates to the double standards of attitudes towards the funding scandals of the various parties. We all know that the plastic bag scandal of the Reform Party has been condemned very seriously by society and also by competing parties. Today Paavo Pettai has made the Estonian Express wooden and red that all members of the Management Board of the Centre Party were aware of illegal funding and...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U66	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U67	...were part of it. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U68	Thank you for this question. I sincerely thank you for having the opportunity to respond to today's story of the Estonian Express in this honorable hall. I start with Jüri Ratas and the Centre Party working together with these political forces when we talk about the formation of the next government, whom the Supreme Authority, or the Estonian person, will trust on 3 March and who will be able to come to this honourable Riigikogu Hall. I think that exclusion is not a good model and model of behaviour before the elections. I have answered journalists' questions when it comes to EKRE that if this party continues to want to take off its heads, if it continues to want segregation on the basis of nationality and race, if it tells these women who for some reason have no children, that they are somehow secondary, then these are the places where I cannot cross the line and cooperate. When you ask about Estonia 200, I replied very clearly to Martin Helme that the next day they apologized and brought out a new message in society. I commended the chairman of your group here in the Riigikogu and said that if he, too, wants to reconsider and say that heads are not worth taking off and that is a bad thing, I welcome it in any case. In my opinion, this is the sensible direction expressed indirectly by the President of your group, in my opinion, in this Chamber. For the Centre Party, your final question was whether I've been aware of that plastic bag money or black money. I have nothing to add to what I have said to the Estonian press and the public. I also say today that no, I have not been aware of such transactions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U69	Mart Helme, the point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U70	Thank you. When I come back to the first part of your answer, I would like to say both to you and to the other people in this Chamber who expect us to capitulate unconditionally: we will not capitulate unconditionally. If you don't understand folk expressions like 'over the line', 'rolling into a ditch', which can sometimes be used for a bike, then maybe you should educate yourself a little bit more. As far as funding is concerned, the Estonian Centre Party has declared itself a party that is currently bankrupt because you are unable to pay back, as you yourself have admitted, the money that the court has obliged you to pay out. Does the Centre Party, which, in addition to everything, is also a party punishable by criminal law and should be subject to liquidation in accordance with the law, intend to declare bankruptcy or what is your strategy now that the Republic of Estonia, which was supposed to be the rule of law, should comply with the judgments?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U71	Thank you. This has really happened a long time ago, and sometimes it happens that it goes to a ditch. You can't blame it, but then you have to pull it out of the ditch, it's a horse carriage, a car or a bicycle, or it's our own journey. Sometimes it happens that we might step aside and then have to adjust that path. Maybe even you guys have happened sometimes, I can't tell you that. But then you have to pull it out of the ditch and go on. If you're asking if the Centre Party is bankrupt or about to liquidate itself, then the answer is no. You asked what the Centre Party's strategy was. The strategy of the Centre Party is to build a fair Estonian society that is coherent and solidarity-based. Our strategy is to always look at a longer period than four years, which is the next period of government and the mandate of one Riigikogu. It is certainly our strategy when we talk about older people, that they will receive an extraordinary pension increase. When we talk about young people, our strategy is for young people to have a state-guaranteed home, and for the birth of the first and second children the country would support more. I certainly want to say that I think the longer view is that Estonia is not a country with a shrinking population, but a country with a growing population. Certainly our strategy is also that in Estonian society we need to see more positive and bridge building and less intimidation and rejecting someone. That's what we stand for. Thank you for this substantive question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U72	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Hypocrisy and justice seem to be at a relatively equal level. You are talking about pensioners, but at the same time you are taxing working pensioners twice, which is not very reasonable. As Prime Minister, you would have been able to change that in the government. Even in this Chamber, your partymate was surprised at one point that this was the case. It's stuck somewhere, and it's terribly unfortunate. But this story of the Estonian Express today was really amazing. If you have said in this Chamber today that you really are not aware that such funding has taken place, will you be willing to work with the investigative bodies to find out so that you too can find out what happened to you in the party? In my opinion, some cases are still quite recent and should also go under the deadline for a full investigation. Are you ready to initiate this yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U74	Thank you. The answer to your question of whether I am willing to cooperate with the investigative bodies is yes, of course. I think that's very reasonable. The only thing is, I think these behavioral patterns are a little different. I also want to congratulate you as a member of the Reform Party. If the Reform Party has to teach you how to anticipate the clean financing of a party, I think it is a good thing that your party has turned a new page after all. The truth is that neither the Centre Party has run away from these questions in any way. I've been asked a lot over the last few weeks. I continue to believe that the Centre Party, being a party responsible for the government today, is much stricter on these requirements. We have been very clear about all kinds of corruption cases and suspicions. Any illegal donation or black money or plastic purse money or midwife's money, as you wish to call it, will not go with the chairman of the board of today's Central Party and today's Central Party. There must never be any doubt about these things. I have not, in any way, denied that we have certain money issues that still need to be resolved. We've been working on this for the last two years. Concrete steps have also been taken, and we will certainly fix these last things as well. So we have never denied these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U75	I will conclude on this issue. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Minister of Finance. Thank you, Minister of Rural Affairs. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U76	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Is there a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U77	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of some members of the Riigikogu, I want to hand over the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. It's a very simple subject. When we all went on holiday for Christmas, maybe to meet our voters, the TV was running commercials. If I look in this hall, I can see that five of the six political parties have promised one in their campaign: we will bring taxes back to Estonia by midsummer day at the latest, i.e. beers can be bought from Estonia and not from Latvia. From 1 March there have also been new excise duties in Latvia and a draft has been prepared so that excise duties in Estonia for all types of alcohol would be 5% higher, from lean alcohol to strong alcohol. It seems a little funny to do such a bill five weeks before the end of the Riigikogu, but in the other way, it shows whether the election promises actually express what they want. Power and strength! If there is good will, this bill can still be processed during its membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U78	No more wishes. I've adopted a bill. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we continue to act. Checking for presence. 83 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U79	The first item on our agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. No requests, let's go to the final vote. Please calm down, please be quiet. Since this is a draft which requires a majority of the votes of the composition to be adopted as a law, please check your presence. 81 members of the Riigikogu announced that they were present. I am voting on the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in this regard 673. Please take a stand and vote. The draft law was adopted by 75 members of the Riigikogu, with 7 abstentions. The law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U80	The following is the third reading of the draft law amending the Civil Status Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. No requests, let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Civil Status Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, 723. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 6 against and no abstentions. The law amending the Civil Status Act and other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U81	The following is an overview of the state of R &amp; D and government policy in this area by the Prime Minister on our agenda. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to remind you of the procedure. The Prime Minister's report will last up to 35 minutes. Then there are questions for the rapporteur; any member of the Riigikogu may ask the Prime Minister an oral question. Following this, there are negotiations, which may be attended by representatives of the political groups. Please, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U82	President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the opportunity to present before you an overview of the state of research and development and government policy in this area. Good guys in the hall! I would like to begin by thanking everyone who has contributed to the drafting of today's presentation, in particular the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the Estonian Academy of Sciences, the Estonian Research Council, the State Chancellery and the entire Research and Development Council. My many thanks this year for all the universities, university leaders, scientists and, of course, university families for their very productive work! The government has systematically and effectively addressed R &amp; D challenges. In 2018, the meetings of the Scientific and Development Council were held more frequently than before. Five times both research policy and funding issues were discussed, the possibilities for international cooperation and innovation were analysed. During the year, I have personally met the management of all Estonian universities. In addition, several issues of cooperation and innovation in science and entrepreneurship have been addressed by the Government's Committee on Economic Development at ministerial level. I would certainly like to begin by thanking the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu for the two years that I have been able to work with the Committee on Culture and its Chairman and Members on this subject. It has been very fruitful in my opinion, I have received many good thoughts from you. I started with the fact that the TAN has gathered five times this year. I remember that in January 2017, when I had the first chance to be in front of the Committee on Honorable Culture, I promised that TAN meetings and consultations should take place more than twice a year. The 19th of December last year was, I think, a very important day: just before Christmas, political parties, scientists and entrepreneurs signed the science treaty, which was carried out by the President of the Republic. Financing R &amp; D and innovation in the public sector must rise to 1% of GDP. Achieving this goal requires the contribution of all actors in society. However, more important than the amount of money, I think, are the changes that were confirmed by politicians, the scientific community and the entrepreneurs by the agreement. It is clear that more money is not enough to improve cooperation between businesses and researchers. Researchers promised to promote areas aimed at the development of the Estonian economy and society and business representatives to cooperate more with scientists and research institutions. Although money can only be a means to trigger institutional restructuring and cooperate with people, money tends to be an important enabler today. It is known that the share of research expenditure in GDP depends on both statistical details and economic growth as a whole. For example, if the economy grows faster than foreseen in the forecast, the share of research funding in GDP will also fall and there will be much dissatisfaction. However, if GDP falls, the share of research funding will increase without more financial resources being provided to science and researchers. In addition, statistics, including GDP growth, will be adjusted ex post in the context of methodological clarifications for several years. All of this makes achieving 1% unthankful dependent on many factors. I don't think that's an excuse. I certainly consider it necessary to continue to increase research funding, as we have agreed with all political parties, scientists and entrepreneurs. Recently, Statistics Estonia published data on R &amp; D expenditure in 2017. It appears that expenditure increased from EUR 270 million in 2016 to EUR 304 million in 2017. Public expenditure in particular increased from 127 million to 156 million euros. It's important to understand what's behind the numbers. For example, these amounts do not include all public research funding, such as doctoral studies and fees for participating in international research networks, but include the money requested by the research institutions themselves from Horizon 2020. I will describe all this in order to reduce its 1% mystery and to focus the debate on real absolute values rather than a relative indicator and what we can do with these amounts for the development of Estonian science, society and economy. The current government has decisively increased expenditure on R &amp; D. The financing plan of the State's budget strategy 2019.22022 provides additional funding for higher education and R &amp; D under the Ministry of Education and Research for a total amount of EUR 60.4 million. The state budget for 2019 is planned for R &amp; D at EUR 220,2 million. It is recalled that in 2016 and 2017 the corresponding amount was EUR 175 million and in 2018 EUR 206,2 million. Yes, we have not been able to take one step forward with rapid economic growth, but the leap has been noticeable and illustrates our choice to invest in the future. In particular, there has been a significant increase in the financing of basic instruments for research institutions, by which we mean basic research funding and research grants. In 2015, their total funding amounted to EUR 47.5 million. As a result of the increase in recent years, the amount reached 67.1 million in 2018 and the planned budget for 2019 amounts to 80.1 million. In particular, there has been an increase in the share of stable financing, the so-called "base funding', which has increased from 19% in 2015 to 49% in 2019. This means greater peace of work and confidence for researchers in their research work. Honourable listeners! The level of Estonian science is very high according to the usual standard, despite the unachieved funding objectives. It can be satisfied with both the general publication activity and the proportion of the articles quoted. Already in 2016, 1659 high-level articles per million inhabitants were published, achieving the 2020 target set in the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy. If you look at the proportion of articles quoted, which is even better illustrated by the quality of science, you can see that Estonia has developed very quickly over the last few years and is firmly above the European average. Kalmer Lauk and Professor Jüri Allik of the University of Tartu have calculated from the databases Web of Science and Essential Science Indicators that, if you look at the referability of articles, Estonia is the 12th scientific state in the world. I would also like to thank the last discussion of the Committee on Culture, where this clarification was made, for this observation and for the fact that it is necessary to clarify this point. Our influence is undoubtedly based on a strong scientific community: people whose studies and discoveries lead life forward. More than 6,000 of the most influential natural and social scientists in the last decade have been mentioned in the review of the researchers' influence in Claritive Analytics Web of Science, including 17 Estonian researchers. Against the background of Estonia's population, this is an excellent result. The participation of Estonian researchers and entrepreneurs in the European Union's research and development programmes has steadily increased. Estonia remains in a very good position in terms of the success of Horizon 2020 participation within the European Union, which confirms the capacity and value of our scientists and companies as a cooperation partner. The excellent international competitiveness of Estonian universities has also been confirmed several times. Since 2018, I will highlight the first place of the University of Tartu in the British journal Times Higher Education in the so-called "New European University Scoreboard." Since 2004, the 53 best scientific universities in 13 countries have joined the European Union. As the second Estonian alma mater, Tallinn University of Technology has been marked as the 18th. Many members of society, however, are more interested in research results and their practical contribution to improving living conditions than in different indicators and rankings. We expect universities to communicate with society alongside research and teaching, research to move life forward and solve our everyday concerns. A study of career paths for researchers Eneli Kindsiko and Maaja Vadi with PhD degrees at the University of Tartu confirms: according to formal metrics, it is a successful scientist with many scholarships and numerous quoted scientific articles in English. However, scientists rather consider it a success to be a person who can inspire others with his personality and who, in his work, brings practical benefits to society. A good example is Professor Ahto Buldas of the Institute of Software Science at Tallinn University of Technology, who received the state research award last year for outstanding discoveries in the field of basic technologies in e-social society. Research into attack-proof e-services and time-stamping systems has laid the foundations for Estonian e-state technologies. It is also difficult to overestimate his role in the development of two internationally successful Estonian companies, Cybernetica and Guardtime. Professor Buldas himself has stressed that his activities are often not aimed at science, but are also prepared to deal with the practical engineering tasks necessary for the development of e-governance. Both his substantive and high-level research and his way of thinking set an example for many young scientists. Vasilis Kostakis, Senior Research Fellow of Tallinn University of Technology, recently received the European Research Council's prestigious start-up grant for a four-year research project. His research group is trying to make sense of the future's work in and after the era of automation. This is once again a good example of research that will directly match the challenges that businesses, workers and policy makers will soon face. How can we adapt to new business models and forms of work? How can we adapt our regulations and tax systems so that businesses and workers can carry out themselves using new models and, at the same time, we do not treat them differently from the traditional economy? Today, we do not know these answers, but very soon we need to know, and I hope that this kind of research will help us make wise decisions. Looking ahead, the increase in the number of PhD graduates in recent years is encouraging. In 2017, there were 253 graduates, which is the highest ever figure. For example, three years earlier, 208 doctoral students graduated in 2015. Raising the income of doctoral students and increasing their social guarantees have been a conscious priority for the government. Estonia needs more people with doctoral degrees to contribute to different areas of life. To this end, the state must provide conditions and a supportive environment enabling people to complete their doctoral studies and acquire a degree. Demand for people with doctoral degrees outside R &amp; D institutions could certainly increase. How can we expect, for example, a significant increase in private R &amp; D if there are no people who can take care of it? Members of the Riigikogu! The Estonian economy and the state as a whole have undoubtedly been doing well since the restoration of independence. However, it is important to continue along the path of increasing the research and knowledge intensity of the economy. We cannot accept the slow growth in corporate productivity or the deterioration of Estonia's position in the European Innovation Union Scoreboard. From 13th place in 2015, we fell to 15th place in 2017. The target for 2020 is 10. Public R &amp; D will certainly support private R &amp; D, but the decision on what someone produces and sells or where to invest will ultimately remain in the company's own hands. Estonia's companies are distinguished by investments in machinery and equipment that are proportionally higher than those of the Nordic countries compared to intangible assets. However, this may not always mean better productivity. However, it is positive that the share of IPR related products has started to increase. If we are to move to a higher level of the value chain, investments in intangible assets such as research and development, design, human development, the development of our brands and advertising will become increasingly important. The R &amp; D expenditure of Estonian companies amounted to 143.6 million euros in 2017, which was only 4 to 5 million more than in 2016. I hope that what is agreed in the research agreement will also make R &amp; D a priority for the private sector. According to the Coalition Agreement, we have developed proposals to stimulate business R &amp; D and to increase the involvement of private sector funds. A number of them proposed a task force for funding and organising higher education and research as an idea. The government approved last June an action plan drawn up on the basis of the Task Force's proposals, the implementation of which will be monitored by the Scientific and Development Council and the State Chancellery. In September, the Enterprise Development Foundation started to provide product development support to manufacturing industry companies, with which we want to encourage industry companies to invest more in development. As a longer-term effect, we expect the added value of companies to grow. Already a brief experience confirms entrepreneurs' interest in support and, if it continues, an increase in funding needs to be considered. We share risks that one company alone does not make sense, but which society as a whole is clearly interested in in in the longer term. The Ministry of Education and Research has initiated sectoral research programmes. They are tailored to the needs of companies and result in research activities in research institutions that meet the interests of enterprises. The ICT programme was launched in 2018 and the resource enhancement programme will be launched in 2019. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has identified areas with a high degree of scientific competence, where there is also a very large business potential and a considerable likelihood of bringing investment into Estonia. This information will be used in future for value-offering to potential investors. Much has been said about the fact that in Estonia applied research is done in proportion to basic research. In fact, there are more stages of technology readiness. The problem is that in Estonia, the results of research are mostly not developed until the technological readiness is such that the company has an economic interest in further developing itself. This means that often research with commercial potential does not find sufficient funding for the next stages of development. Investors view risks as too high or unclear, and projects fall into the valley of death. Many countries offer support to address this problem. On the same principles, in the second half of 2019, our researchers will be offered development grants in order to develop their research results into a phase of interest to the company or to test the existence of corresponding assumptions. In order to better respond to society's needs, we have developed a network of ministries' research advisors with the support of RITA, a programme to strengthen sectoral R &amp; D in recent years. Scientific advisors working in ministries are responsible for identifying sectoral research needs and cooperating with research institutions. A more research-based approach to policy-making and implementation is a direct possibility that researchers can contribute to the development of the state and society, while officials and politicians can make better decisions based on facts. Only those who fear the truth are afraid of the research, research, or analysis that underpins such decisions. This positive experience is to be tested by branch associations of companies, supporting them in hiring development advisors. Promoting cooperation between research communities and businesses is essential if we are to be competitive. The development advisor shall jointly assist undertakings in finding important research and development trends in their field of activity and shall cooperate with officials, researchers and other actors in carrying out their research. The first development advisors will work on a pilot project to branch associations in the second half of 2019. I wish that there would be more entrepreneurs in Estonia who would be prepared to make such expenses themselves and to expand their cooperation with scientists. High-level research cannot be carried out without modern research infrastructures. In 2018, the process of updating the Estonian Research Infrastructure Roadmap began, during which several infrastructures were approved, enabling companies in the field to benefit directly. The Science Roadmap is a long-term planning tool for the country, including a list of new or essential national research infrastructure sites that need to be updated. The Roadmap will also serve as a basis for drawing up financing decisions for national research infrastructure. Infrastructure sites can be both physical and network structures and membership in international research infrastructure organisations. This time the objects that were already in operation or are in operation were distinguished from the objects that were still being built. The third group consists of objects related to Estonia's participation in international research infrastructures. I consider it important that the infrastructure items included in the science roadmap be developed in a responsible, balanced manner and prioritising the development needs of the Estonian state and society, i.e. also in line with the scientific communities of which we are members. Estonia has actively participated in the preparation of the European Horizon programme to support research and innovation in the European Union. The planned budget for the programme from 2021 to 2020 amounts to EUR 100 billion, a large part of which is divided between the three pillars. Under the Open Science Pillar, around €25.8 billion of basic research will be funded. Under the second pillar, R &amp; D will be funded for €52.7 billion on topics supporting societal challenges and industrial competitiveness. The third pillar of open innovation is intended to support breakthrough innovation in the amount of EUR 13.5 billion. In addition to traditional calls for proposals and partnerships, societal challenges will be addressed through a small number of missions based on the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The government approved Estonia's positions in October. We support the new 'European horizon' programme, but we will continue to ensure that the participation barriers of small countries are reduced. We stress the importance of cooperation projects and mobility alongside activities aimed at individual companies and researchers. Given that more emphasis has been put on supporting innovation than in the past, the Scientific and Development Council considered that the capacity to participate in the third pillar must also be increased nationally. This requires cooperation between the public and private sectors. We expect the Enterprise Estonia to be more active in supporting innovation than in the past. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has reunited the Innovation Policy Committee over the years, which is certainly a step in the right direction. Together with our partners, we need to develop an innovation policy that responds to their needs and helps to meet today's challenges, and even tomorrow's challenges. The preparation of the European Horizon programme is still ongoing and Estonia will have the opportunity to influence the content of this programme over the next year. For example, Estonia has thematic preferences for participating in the framework programme. I would also like to ask for the help of all of you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, in shaping and defending Estonia's positions at European Union level. Honourable listeners! I would also like to make a brief point on what is to come. Preparations for a new planning period starting in 2021 have begun. Evaluation of the Estonian R &amp; D &amp; I system is ongoing. The Scientific and Development Council considered it necessary to obtain an independent assessment of the performance of the Estonian research and innovation system and practical recommendations for its development before preparing the next strategy. The work has started with a group of experienced European experts who will examine previous studies and meet important participants in Estonia. We hope to discuss the first results of the analysis with the Scientific and Development Council in May and the final results will be made public by September. A large part of the country's current development plans will expire from 2020 as well as the current euro money period. The government has instructed the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with partners, to develop a comprehensive long-term strategy paper 'Estonia 2035' by April 2020. In the framework of this process, Estonia's long-term development goals, the major reforms needed to achieve them, are agreed and resources are also planned to implement the strategy. It is clear that the volume of euro money will decrease in the next period. We need to get used to the idea that the policies so far funded by euro money must probably find different sources of coverage. This is possible if we work together and prioritise important objectives. My wish is for R &amp; D to be deliberately planned in development strategies in all areas, so that the objectives agreed in the 'Estonia 2035' strategy are supported and the culture and quality of policy making and implementation in Estonia will be significantly improved. This does not mean a number of new strategies to address R &amp; D, on the contrary, less strategies than today, but more common cross-ministerial priorities in both content activities and funding models. The year 2021 gives us the opportunity to do things differently, to do things better. A good example is the systematic cooperation between the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the University of Life Sciences in the preparation of a new development plan and in the setting of future priorities. Finally, I stress the importance of communicating, meeting and exchanging ideas with each other. We can't formalize everything, even if sometimes we feel that way. It is often a matter of will to get to know researchers, researchers or officials and entrepreneurs in their field and to start working together. The science agreement mentioned above is a very good example of a common energy that is actually hidden inside us. Let us use it to develop science and a science-based society. Enthusiastic leaders, the openness of all parties involved and the willingness to deepen not only their needs and wishes, but also the situation of others. In a small country like Estonia, human relations are of great importance. Science is a matter for all of us, it means talking about science, understanding it and, if necessary, critical evaluation of it. I would therefore like to note and recognise the Estonian Young Academy of Sciences, who has done very good lighting work since 2017, if you could say so, by presenting the results of the research and expressing your views clearly. In the pre-election period, the initiative 'How do you know' launched by the Estonian Research Council deserves attention? '. In cooperation with journalists, researchers and many other partners, factual explanations are provided on the claims made in the pre-election debate. I hope that this will make our political culture more polite, factual and thus better. An admirable work has also been done by the scientific journalist Priit Peelt, who is familiar to all Vikerraadio's listeners, whose scientific news page was awarded a consumer text prize with a well-known message. I have no illusions about the simplicity of this work. Science must be distinguished from the often highly apethic unsciences. Science cannot be simplified indefinitely because there are often no simple and clear answers. At the scientific policy conference held here in the Riigikogu in October, Academician Tarmo Soomere spoke of this very well: 'The problem of today is that science no longer offers absolute truth but information known at the moment, which is organized in the best way possible. This is an uncomfortable truth for both the state and the scientists, because it is difficult to refer to and rely on science in this way because knowledge may have changed by tomorrow. " We need to educate ourselves and the entire Estonian people on how to link new information to the past; how to take into account the best knowledge at the moment in decisions concerning our personal life, work and state in an ever-changing and informative time; and how to be prepared to adapt to new information. Very honourable Riigikogu, thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U83	Questions for the Prime Minister. Mr Riigikogu, I would like to remind you once again that in the debate on this item, everyone can ask one question. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U84	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! It is often not possible to translate what you want to say in linguistics. You have just said that political parties have agreed that funding for science must rise to 1%. It is just like you said earlier about Janek Mägg that conflicts of interest cannot exist. Or if you have been asked about the support for Estonian-language learning, you have started talking about Estonian-language learning or said that this transition will take place, this process will take place. That's why I want to ask why you're not doing it, why don't you tell me you're doing it. My experience is that when you fight for this goal, there are always more stupid promises, compromises. In your own election program, too, the dumbest promises are greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U85	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U86	Tell me why you're not. You are the Prime Minister now! You have power over the ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U87	Thank you! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U88	Thank you. I am certainly not a politician with such an attitude that only the Prime Minister does. Makes a team. As the issue was discussed about the government, I must certainly acknowledge the government, but I would also like to recognise the Riigikogu. Your question was why they don't do it or why I don't. I remember that there have been prime ministers in Estonia who have only wanted to decide how to change Estonia's life. I don't think that's the right thing to do. If you were listening and I think you listened to my presentation thoroughly, then you know that I said, for example, that if we take basic funding versus research grants, then there is always a desired shift towards balance, so that it is 50:50, but I told you a specific sentence that 2015 was 19:81 to the detriment of basic funding, and this year it is 49:51. Basically, this objective has been achieved when we talk about science. Next, I was talking about funding, and I repeat, the state budget for 2019 has added approximately EUR 14 million to R &amp; D, namely EUR 220,2 million, and last year it was EUR 206 million. This amount was EUR 175 million in 2016. It is also a concrete activity to increase the budget volume. Go on, let's take the funding percentage. The target has been 0.81%, which also shows growth. These are, in my opinion, very concrete actions. I just don't want to answer that everything is done and there's nothing left to do, despite the fact that your question went, I don't know, to the Centre Party program, but I don't think you'd like to hear it right now. If we take this threshold of 0.81% of GDP, it is in this sense that we do do do so in this formula to try to achieve this 1% of GDP, which we have agreed to. This year it will mean an additional 50,5 million, next year, 2020 - it will be 70 million already. These are certainly the activities that the new coalition and the new Riigikogu will undertake. They will pursue this goal. These are some concrete examples of your question or complaint about why nothing is done. I think that increased funding, a greater share of basic funding, is a very concrete activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U89	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I'm gonna stick to your word too. You said that this 1% achievement has been made ungrateful depending on different circumstances. What are the negative circumstances? One fact has clearly worked in your favor. This is economic growth. The general philosophy says that in a period of economic growth, innovation must be contributed to achieving sustainable development when things may not be going so well in the economy. You really talked about a lot of things: the Committee on Innovation Policy, the fact that development advisors have been employed somewhere in public authorities, support for product development, etc. However, there is still the question, which is one of the great initiatives of the government, which will take us forward from the point where the economic economy actually supports support in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U91	Thank you. I'm just trying to understand your complicated point of the middle. You said that economic growth has worked for the benefit of today's government and me. I have not done these calculations, but if economic growth were weak or the economy was in recession, should I be happy and tell you that there is a very high probability that the Estonian public sector will contribute to research and development, I don't know, 1.05%? It was my idea. Didn't you want to listen or didn't you hear, but I gave you an opinion on this 1% mystery? If we have economic growth, the forecast made by the Ministry of Finance for the current budget will change afterwards. If we had less growth or recession, we would most likely be able to say that 220 million will give us more than 1% at a certain level. It was my idea. It is clear that if GDP grows rapidly, the share of funding will fall. That's right. But you had a question about what this one thing is. I don't know, it's not usually just one thing in life to do and wish for now. I think that this increase in basic funding has been very correct, it has, in any case, given certainty and its impact is much wider. I also think that the impact is indirectly that we are talking about the possible return of scientists to Estonia. In any case, the financing has become more secure. I say that we could see even greater cooperation in contributing to R &amp; D between the private and public sectors. Looking at science today from the perspective of the future, I think that betting on doctoral students, doctoral grants, scholarships or doctoral student pay, no matter what we call this financial support, is where we have to contribute even more and faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U92	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U93	Good Prime Minister! You said we had a very high level of science. I want to know what you think are the reasons why so little of this strong science applies to our economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U94	Thank you. You asked an ancient question about how to motivate more of the public contribution to science that we can bring more and more into our everyday lives, into our society. I do not want to take this on myself, but if you will allow me, I will use this question of yours, which was also in the Committee on Culture, where you asked about the idea of creating this so-called 'applied research centre'. It is hardly a magic wand, but it is certainly, I think, one very positive or correct message that the next Riigikogu and government should consider, which will certainly help to bring science more into everyday life. On the other hand, I would like to point out Estonia's membership and contribution to international organisations. We have talked a lot about ESA and space. I'm glad. In my opinion, this is the direction that the state has taken with regard to CERN we do not yet know the final response here, precisely so that we can start participating in CERN procurement, which would give our businesses the opportunity to compete there and thus gain better knowledge. The question, in my opinion, is certainly also why the private sector does not finance more R &amp; D. I would point out that investment in development, as I said, is expensive, they are certainly risky, they are generally with a long payback period. However, corporate R &amp; D spending, as we look at 2017, increased. True, they grew modestly. Statistics say that while EUR 139 million was contributed in 2016, EUR 143.6 million in 2017 and the number of R &amp; D spending companies has been more or less stable in recent years. I remember that last year, either in a speech or in one of the answers, I brought out these numbers and I will bring them here. In 2015, there were 225 such companies, in 2016 there were 257 such companies and in 2017 there were 241 such companies. I find it regrettable that private R &amp; D is modest. We have discussed this several times in the TAN. I'm looking at Urve Palo here for a second. I remember that if Urve Palo was a member of the government, he had a principle or he said, both in the Committee on Economic Development and in the TAN, that if we are going to raise the public contribution, we must in no way neglect the private sector's contribution to R &amp; D in achieving this 2%. Experience in other countries has shown that there may not be a change expected by market forces alone, and many countries share risks with businesses. The support for product development provided by the Enterprise Estonia since the second half of 2018 is, I think, a step in the right direction, Mrs Sulling. I think this is a step towards solving the problem that you have raised. I do not think we can overcome or recreate the issues of how the state can motivate business development and encourage cooperation between research institutions and companies. I think there are many of these options, of course, but the following measures are being taken in Estonia. One is the same clever specialisation and a measure to support applied research in the areas of smart specialisation growth. This will contribute to applied research in research institutions for the benefit of businesses. So for some examples to answer your question, I tried to point out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U95	George Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Prime Minister, for a meaningful report with a lot of figures. Such a large-scale picture of our field of research and development was really painted in your presentation. But I will bring this observation, which was reflected in your report. When we start talking about R &amp; D, it gets pathetic or somehow, you yourself called it here, it gets fetished by 1%, and it is forgotten that the central figure of R &amp; D is still a scientist and a lecturer. The question is this: has the government also paid attention to not forgetting scientists and teachers, their incomes, which have actually declined steadily over the years, unlike teachers whose salaries have been much talked about?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U97	Thank you for this question. If you will allow me, Mr Jüri Saar, I welcome you to the Riigikogu on behalf of the government and wish you strength in your work in building and securing a more secure future for the people of Estonia and the Estonian state. Yes, I think that this problem has come up seriously, especially in the last few years. As I said in my presentation, I have met with all university management. I have raised this question myself, because I know that there is a problem. The question has been this: how many of your lecturers, associate professors or, let's say, faculty leave the university for high school or high school for the reason that the salary is higher there? On the one hand, the pay of teachers, the income of teachers, has been a very strong priority for today's government. This year, the teacher's minimum wage is EUR 1250 and the teacher's average wage is EUR 1500. In answer to your question, I will first give you such an emotional answer. The universities I've been asking for it didn't exactly say yes, three people are gone, four people are gone or five people are gone. Perhaps there has been a sense that some people have also started working in high school or upper secondary school and maybe reduced their workload to some extent at university. What has the government done? Since 2019, the Government has provided operating grants to universities in the form of additional funding of EUR 4.5 million per year. I hope this will also help raise the pay of teachers. They have been less motivated by wage levels in recent years. This split is done. Whether this is enough is, of course, a question of its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U98	Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U99	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your substantive presentation. In my view, your government is indeed the first government to take concrete steps in order to promote research and development in Estonia over a period of time, and it has not only turned a blank story around it. But what else to do to motivate the private sector to contribute to R &amp; D? We know that if the private sector does not increase its contribution, the state alone will not get far and the Estonian state and people will not get richer. Today, the private sector contributes significantly less than the state, in general it is the opposite in developed countries. When we are talking about the state's objective of reaching 1% of GDP, my question is whether the additional amounts should still be linked to the fact that the state is also contributing to R &amp; D, for example, that universities are funded if there is cooperation with the private sector, or not? Here are different opinions from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U100	Thank you. I cannot leave the following sentences unsaid at the beginning of my answer. Honourable Member of the Riigikogu Urve Palo, I thank you for the good words, but we all understand that you yourself have contributed very much and very much to the handwriting of today's government when we talk about entrepreneurship and information technology when we talk about science and the greater contribution of the private sector to science. But surely, Honourable Urve Palo, you have also contributed much more broadly to the construction and operation of this government. Thanks for that. Now I'm gonna answer the question. I'm sure that's the problem you brought up, especially the one on the other side of your question. As I also said to Mrs Anne Sulling, in any case, not only this 1% must be seen, but I stress that we must also look at in parallel what is happening in the private sector with this 2%, because the sum of the sum is our target of 3%. I don't think there's anything you can do to put it in the background. Some things are being prepared, there are some initiatives, such as supporting the hiring of development advisors into branch associations of entrepreneurs (that is what I said in my presentation), development grants for the development of a phase of interest for researchers in research performance companies or testing the existence of corresponding assumptions. Support for cross-sectoral labour mobility and the creation of a support fund for research-intensive start-ups will also be considered. In this sense, I fully agree with you that additional money must increase the impact of science, if that is to be said briefly, in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U101	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U102	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question is actually about the same subject. In your speech, you highlighted very important aspects of research and development, such as the development or operation of cooperation between the research community and businesses or an innovation system. One side of this issue is, of course, that research funding as a whole and public funding have not increased decisively, but the key question remains how to motivate private operators to come and contribute. What is your personal position to help companies contribute to R &amp; D?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U103	Thank you. As I said, it is clear that the investments that the private sector makes are expensive, risky and long-term. Here, I think, this place where we could look at greater cooperation in the public sector. As I replied to Urve Palo, development grants are being prepared for the development of a phase of interest for researchers in research performance companies. That's what I think should come up with. In fact, I would literally answer you in the same way as Anne Sulling. I'm not going to go over this again, but it's unfortunate, I agree with you in that respect. As Mr Palo pointed out, it must go in parallel, the steps must go together: if the public sector is to take a step, the private sector must also take a step. I said in my speech that it was before Christmas, when all the political parties in Kadriorg, at the President of the Republic, signed your party were there, even the Reform Party was there, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Confederation of Employers, to do everything in the coming years to reach 1%. I think it's such a positive agreement. It is still necessary to see that we are moving in the right direction, not to say that everything is bad. So what can I say? Businesses themselves have to keep the promise they signed, but cooperation is important here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U104	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation. It really touched on a number of important issues, and one of these issues concerning society and the general public is people with a doctorate. You rightly mentioned that it is important that people with a doctorate reach a wide range of areas of life. I have asked the Rectors of Higher Education and the Council of Rectors, where there is an obstacle here, whether there is a legislative obstacle to this move to entrepreneurship, on the one hand, and to the public sector, on the other, and then perhaps back to the academic sector. The law didn't see a problem. Where, according to you or the Scientific and Development Council, do you think these failures may be that people with a doctorate will not get there to the extent necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U106	Thank you for your question. If I may mention the statistics for a moment, then (I have taken out the 2006/2007, 2012/2013 and 2018/2019 years at random) 2006/2007 there were 2142 people in doctoral studies, 3044 people in 2012/2013 and 2412 people in 2018/2019. Mr Herkel, who always asks very ambitious questions, asked what the one thing would be. I mentioned three things, of course, but last I mentioned social guarantees, giving the doctoral student confidence in his work and studies during this period (we expect him to do a doctoral thesis in four years). I think that's it. Today's government has foreseen an increase in doctoral grants and an increase in social guarantees. This is what should go on, so that we can contribute more and stronger.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U107	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I noticed two things in your speech. One was such a sign of concern or even recognition that, despite the fact that the budget has grown quite properly and the economic environment is good, the funding of science has not kept pace with this. The question to be clarified is why this is not a priority. You spoke of the 50 million that would actually be needed in order to meet this objective financially. More than half of the government's roofing money paid for the first time would have met this goal. It was a matter of priority. Thirdly, I noticed that you very much emphasised the years on which you cannot guarantee anything in terms of budgetary strategy, because you do not know whether today's government will continue after the elections. What has, however, prevented it from clearly making it a higher priority to be close to budget growth? Perhaps, as a remark, we have enough requests for different investments where the share of businesses is less than the money received from the state or from the taxpayer. I think that the same principle should be applied in science, that co-financing does not always have to be 50: 50, may also be smaller, so that the country can take greater risks here, seeing the perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U109	Thank you. Seeing you here, I remembered how you taught me, I think it was in January 2017 when I was first in my position today, in front of you. At the time, your question was why no mention was made of the Estonian University of Life Sciences. I don't know if you remember. We've been going on with this country university discussion, haven't we? I remember that when I had the opportunity to be here before you in 2016 and to ask for the power to form a government, I said that no idea can be redundant, and I would like to go against the principle that the wrong man must not do the right thing in Estonian society. Now I want to tell you that thank you for your concern for the country university. I remember it was about veterinary training, and I've talked to the rector of the state university several times about it. Today, it can be said that clinical training in veterinary discipline takes place at the rural university's own animal clinic and farms and must meet the requirements set out in European Union directives. That makes teaching this specialty expensive, as you know very well. From 2019 the organisation of veterinary training at the Estonian University of Life Sciences will be supported with an additional EUR 300000 per year, thus ensuring the availability of qualified lecturers and graduates of veterinary specialization. So I want to say thank you during this conversation, Mr. Kruuse. I kind of remembered that back then. It took time, but this issue has now been resolved, so has the rector of the state university. Now I will answer your question, say, to the content. I understand you put this political question to me, don't you? You're talking about a future election here. Why isn't it 1%? I could say that the base was just so weak in 17 years, I mean, when the Reform Party was in the government, but I'm not gonna answer that. I say as I said in the report and I shook the ashes on my head: we have not reached this 1% and this work must be continued. If we look at the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, this 0.81, this means 50 million; if we look at the percentage of other authorities, how much the Estonian state contributes to R &amp; D, this amount is even greater. Then the question arises as to what should be taken as a basis. You have paralleled here examples of regional investments or these roofing money. I'm just going to give you an example that you're going to remember. These sums included, for example, genetic sampling at the gene bank, if I'm not mistaken, over 100,000 last year. Before I thanked a minister who is a member of the Riigikogu today. I want to look to the left again and say thank you to Mr Ossinovski, who was a very strong leader on this subject. I don't know, maybe I'm wrong, you know better, but I think close to 152000 people's records are in the gene bank. From there, for example, this funding came specifically. So these things can't be reversed. But I think that the movement towards 1% has still been a very specific and clear priority for today's government, there is no question. You brought out the 50 million missing. In order for this to be balanced, I will once again bring out what I have already said. I said that today's government has made a significant contribution to R &amp; D, and in my report I have raised an amount of €60.4 million. I said that the financing plan for the State's budget strategy 2019/2022 provides additional funding for higher education and R &amp; D under the Ministry of Education and Research for a total of EUR 60.4 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U110	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U111	Thank you. Thank you, Prime Minister, for this extremely balanced speech, which pointed well to the good aspects and victories of our research and development, but also to our concerns. It is excellent that this government has thrown into the trash a market model for earlier research funding and has started a path from project science towards sound basic research funding. However, in order to give researchers real certainty in order to abolish pre-existing contracts, to ensure that young researchers have a serious stable career model, and to ensure that the entry of researchers into the labour market in either the academy or the private sector is not so unfairly difficult, the level of overall research funding needs to be significantly increased. We have made a promise to our allies in NATO that defence spending will always be at least 2% of GDP, and that is what we must do. How can we achieve the same promise to our own people and to meet it, so that the share of R &amp; D expenditure in GDP is never less than the share of defence expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U112	Thank you. I remembered when you asked me a question that I had the honour of meeting the Pope at the beginning of last year. In a conversation in his offices in the Vatican, he asked why we never talk about an international agreement in the field of education in terms of funding. This parallel is basically the same as what you brought in your question that we have agreed with 29 countries that the defence component is 2%. The short answer is that I hope that this science agreement, which has been signed, has received signatures from very different parties, should be the social agreement that will lead us to this goal in the next three years. We are mainly staying in this hall at this 1%, but the target is actually 3%. We have talked so much today about cooperation between the public and private sectors. So I dare say that we who we are in this Chamber must make every effort by third sector associations, or political NGOs, to make it clear that this signature was not signed in the pre-election virvard, but was put in full seriousness.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U113	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In fact, it is a well-known and well-known truth that many private companies do not report their actual research and development costs, because the form of reporting is complicated and companies do not have the incentive to fill in this form. Does the government intend to do anything to improve the quality of the reporting of private R &amp; D expenditure or the quality of its content?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U115	Thank you. I fully agree with you that this motivation should be raised. The question is whether it should be raised by cutting red tape (it must be done in any case) or whether it should be done on the basis of less red tape and certain advantages. I mean, some kind of tax relief. If you're asking if these things have been discussed, they've been discussed at TAN. I have asked a similar question at the TAN meeting, as you asked, what to do then. I fully agree with what you said, and I think that the private sector actually contributes more than today's percentage indicates. This reporting means extra bureaucracy, extra forms, extra time, that's the reason. When we discussed it in TAN, there was also a representative of Statistics. I remember the representative of Statistics Estonia promised that they would review and organise this process, make it more user-friendly, so that there would be less bureaucracy. I think this is what we are trying to make things easier for businesses, along with the use of information technology.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U116	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! We all know, more or less, that preparation for future research and development actually starts at the beginning of the school. Developing cognitive capabilities, "enhancing the potential" - this is the subject of general education. How do you assess Estonian general education, whether Estonian students will have equal opportunities to become researchers everywhere in Estonia in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U118	Thank you for your question. With your help, these odds will certainly be better, because you know well what it means to have a science spy on Ruhnu or Muhu Island, Saaremaa, Hiiumaa or Läänemaa, because you have been chosen from there. Of course, I think that in order to increase the attractiveness of science, certain TV programmes in Estonian Television have taken part in schoolchildren, done an excellent job and gave this impetus. I think robotic circles are also a priority. I dare even say that we could not think of a broader and broader programming teaching in the very first classes. I've seen in my home how a friend of mine has taken four or five young people between the ages of 8, 11 and 12. He also teaches them programming and also tries to keep the motivation package on top of it. Let's face it, young people come out of these games and get serious about this. Does becoming a good scientist depend on whether you grow up in the city or in the country? I don't have that kind of statistics, but I'm gonna get a sports parallele. The Olympic winners are coming from outside the centers, but I don't want to hurt the centers either.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U119	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. There are no more questions. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Jevgeni Ossinovski on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Can I have three more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U121	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U122	Ladies and gentlemen, Some comments also from the Group of the Social Democratic Party on this important issue. Given both the small size of Estonia and the scarcity of our resources, we must generally say that Estonia's scientific community has done extraordinary work. Estonian science is internationally competitive, our researchers have a global influence, as demonstrated by our success in international research teams as well as in applying for international research projects. It can be said that our science is considerably higher and more influential than one could expect given the size and level of development of our country. Certainly, our scientists must also be commended for this. At the same time, and despite all the bottlenecks, as a country, we have been able to carry out research broadly successfully. We have put emphasis on quality, by distributing a large part of the funds on a competitive basis, we have focused European Union funds on developing the infrastructure of research institutions, and we have organized a network of research institutions. The authorities themselves have certainly also taken steps to improve governance. Of course, there are plenty of problems. In 2014, when I had the honour of being responsible for this area as Minister of Science, we laid the foundations for a major change. First, although the high proportion of competitive financing instruments has contributed to improving the quality of science to a certain extent, it has also increased uncertainty in the scientific community, in turn reduced the attractiveness of research careers and in some cases forced Estonian researchers to go abroad. That is why we agreed with scientists that we would move gradually towards the so-called 50: 50 funding systems, according to which half of the research funding would be distributed through a stable basic financing instrument and the rest on a competitive basis. Despite the fact that the overall increase in funding has certainly been insufficient, we can say that this reform has essentially been carried out and the necessary share has been achieved by this year. Secondly, the issue of social guarantees for doctoral students is certainly crucial from the point of view of science's successors. At the time, on my proposal, we adopted a law in the Riigikogu according to which the doctoral student is paid a social tax, which allows the doctoral student to obtain the social benefits it entails (in the longer view, pension, higher parental benefit is more tangible). We also started to increase the income of doctoral students: from EUR 383 in customs, the grant for doctoral students has increased to EUR 660 today. Of course, this must go on, so that doctoral student support reaches the average wage level in Estonia. This is important in order for doctoral students to be able to focus on research. Speaking about the future of Estonian science, I would like to draw attention in my speech today to two possibilities and to one very important threat in my opinion. First of all, the possibilities. Investment in science is certainly investment in the future. Although they will not deliver today or tomorrow, but in years' time, in order to have new knowledge for society and the economy in years' time, we need to invest today. Each uninvested euro actually generates a very high cost, even though we cannot measure it accurately in this way in money or in another unit. Although in the last five years, every year when I have had the honour of spending, we have found additional funding for science, this growth has clearly been insufficient. That is why I am extremely pleased that, under the leadership of the scientific community, the idea that I proposed last December was a clear agreement between the political party leaders so that the budget strategy for the next country would find the necessary resources to reach 1% of GDP by the end of a few years. Science is investment for the future and should have a national agreement similar to defence costs. The second option concerns higher education. Science cannot be viewed separately from higher education and vice versa. One of the tasks of science is to feed Estonian higher education and strong higher education is the foundation of a generally successful society. On the other hand, higher education is a system that, for its part, provides the necessary follow-up to science. There are good universities in Estonia, but as economist Jeffrey Sachs, who recently visited Estonia, could have a superstar university in Estonia. I totally agree with that. Looking at the most important global rankings of universities, we can see that the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology are in the picture. Both the QS and the Times place the University of Tartu, for example, among the 300-400 best universities in the world. But at the same time, for example, the University of Helsinki is among the first 100 on both lists. I think that this could be our next serious goal: to bring one of the top 100 Estonian universities to the world. Of course, this is not an easy task, but if it were to be strategically targeted and invested in it as a priority, this could be achieved over the next decade. And now the threat. In many politicians, and unfortunately also in the current science strategy and in many guesses, we see the temptation to restrain science. This is usually called the priority development of your strengths, setting priorities, etc. It will also be supported by some of the heads of research institutions in their own right, in the hope that their area will become a priority for financing decisions. The smart specialisation areas chosen in the current strategy are also an example of this. What's the problem? Foretelling the present, which is in five or ten years' time those areas where the greatest added value comes from, we will inevitably appreciate the future from the surface of the past. But science is also revolutionary in nature, we never know in which areas scientific breakthroughs occur. Even less can we say right now how to put one or another basic scientific resource at the service of the economy or society at large. It may take years or decades to implement a number of ideas. That is why I believe that science is and must be without borders, we must strive for the best, truly brilliant science, but we must not, as a country, prescribe under which light bulb the scientist should look for the keys. We trust scientists in this work. Such thinking leads to a lack of the role of a scientist, which results in a loss of science, but also a spiritual poverty for the whole of society. The choice of priority areas is still reflected in the logic of economic trade. It is a good science that brings money, but the role of science in society is, in my opinion, much wider: to keep culture, to keep the knowledge base, to honor the fact than such. In this ideology, social sciences, which are equally important to other disciplines, are often subjected to economic logic. As a result, they lose what should not happen in their development. Therefore, instead of choosing priority areas, we will ensure that Estonian research institutions are well-managed and demanding in terms of quality, so that science is well and stablely funded. This is how we reach the goal of a truly bright and borderless science in Estonia that serves the interests of Estonian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U123	Anne Sulling will take the floor on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U124	I'll have three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U125	Yes, please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U126	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The year 2018 will certainly be remembered by the research agreement concluded at the end of the year, which aims to ensure that R &amp; D expenditure is raised to 1% of GDP. The interesting question is, of course, why this agreement was needed at all, because already five years ago, in 2014, both the government and the Riigikogu approved a strategy for research and development and innovation, which set exactly the same goal that was to be achieved by 2020. It is noted that the R &amp; D Council, chaired by the Prime Minister, decided in spring 2017 to keep R &amp; D expenditure at 0.81% of GDP in the next four years. Thus, the hope of reaching the target of 1% for an indefinite period was delayed, but this level could not be maintained, so public R &amp; D expenditure in 2017 was only 0.52% of GDP promised instead of 0.81%. Savings at the expense of science is, of course, unacceptable, especially in a situation where Estonia's place in the European Union Innovation Scoreboard has been declining in recent years. Estonia is also the most recent in the OECD countries in terms of bringing new innovative products and services to the market. This should act as an alarm bell that forces R &amp; D to focus on policy. Estonian scientists are very good in basic sciences, our position in the quoting rankings of publications speaks for itself. However, Estonian science has one very big problem: its results do not tend to apply to the economy. The reason lies not only in money, but also in the way our research is organised. I dare say, as I get into the subject, that Estonian research has been organised today in such a way that the results of the research do not reach the economy. Science is known to enter the economy when it becomes a novel product or service that is in demand in the world. On the maturity scale of technology, it means TRL 9. Let me explain how the nine-ball scale technology will be evaluated. The TRL scale has basic science levels 1 and 2, applied research starts at level 3, the prototype is ready at level 7 and the product is ready for market entry at level 9. Universities around the world generally focus on lower levels of the TRL scale in research, mostly at levels 1 to 4. If a project is at a higher TRL level, it is more of an exception. It is important to understand that, in order for the technology developed at a university, for example at TRL level 4, to reach the market, it must also go through steps 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, whereas the closer it is to the market, the more expensive it is to develop. Policy makers should ask themselves where our companies can get help at these levels. Unfortunately, today in Estonia, we often do not. This is not a unique problem for Estonia, but unlike the rest of the world, we still have not understood this problem. In all developed countries, companies are supported by competence centres established with the support of the state in applied research and product development, called industrial research centres or technology development centres, and the term "Institute of applied research" or "National lab" is used in English. In Finland, for example, there are VTT, RISE in Sweden, GTS in Denmark, SINTEF in Norway, TNO in the Netherlands, Fraunhofer in Germany, etc. They usually deliver the TRL scale at levels 4 to 7, but if necessary help smaller companies with no internal development opportunities until the TRL is 9 off. Looking at the European map of which countries have such centres and in which they do not, it turns out that the border is more or less running between Eastern and Western Europe. However, it has recently been heard that several Eastern European countries have also started to realise that they have a limp in the system, which prevents innovation from being achieved. Nor is the fact that in Western European countries it is the national centres for applied research that are the assemblers and leaders of projects in order to apply for funding from the European Union Framework Programme, and they are very successful in this. Do you know that Western Europe brings 95% of research funding home from the European Union's Framework Programme and the countries of Eastern Europe only 5%? Now that we have decided to bring R &amp; D expenditure to 1%, we need to think very clearly about how to spend this money. It is obvious that the existing system needs to be changed if we are interested in the transfer of knowledge to the economy. As has been said, first of all, a centre should be set up in Estonia to assist companies in technology and product development; one could consider doing so in partnership with the Finnish VTT, which has extensive experience in this field. I also know that they are willing to cooperate with us. It would be a sin to miss this opportunity. Secondly, there must be a change in the financing model of ETAg, which will prioritise areas that are relevant to the Estonian economy. Today, for example, the technology and technology sector is clearly under-priorised for companies. Thirdly, an Innovation Authority should be set up, following the example of Israel, to distribute research money only and only to R &amp; D projects by companies aiming at achieving new products and services that are in demand on the market and whose development will be supported up to TRL level 9, i.e. until there is a ready-to-market product. Israel's Innovation Authority distributes about a third of Israel's research budget. This should be the order of magnitude that Estonia could strive for, and we should not be satisfied with 6 to 7%, which is currently in support of companies' R &amp; D projects. Fourthly, a measure to support industrial research and product development must be put in place, the conditions of which are based on the needs of businesses and not on research institutions, as is the case today. Based on its research, the IMF recommends that national governments should support industrial research at 50% in order to make it work at an optimal level in the economy. Only if we are able to meet the four points I mentioned can it be possible that the commitment made in the research agreement to raise research and development expenditure to 1% of GDP will we see economic benefits for Estonia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U127	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U128	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U129	Eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Thank you to the Prime Minister for its broad, diverse and meaningful overview of Estonian research and development! In 2015, when the Riigikogu started today, the discussion of the first important national issue was organised by the Free Party Group, and the topic was the state of play of Estonian research and development, the state of play and the discussion of problematic places or their bringing to the table. We are very pleased that, just before Christmas, a large agreement was re-signed between political parties and business organisations that the financing of Estonian science would reach 1% of GDP. It is right that this direction had long been taken, but this objective was not fulfilled, and this current agreement confirms this direction and will taken by the country. Let's hope that happens now. Another important issue, which has been resolved positively, is the same increase in the percentage of basic funding, which not only provides social guarantees and a sense of security for people working in research institutions and higher education institutions, and does not only guarantee the regularity and stability of income for people, but also allows institutions to really test, search and try new outputs, also to look for new challenges, even to try the entire market chain, from fundamental sciences to the product sold. This opportunity has still been lacking in research institutions. I very much hope that the increase in basic funding will provide an opportunity to develop new product models. But we still have much to do. To a large extent, we agree with what Mr Ossinovski emphasised, in particular, that the research of a small country in Estonia cannot focus only on development and production output, but must be diverse, broad-based, because we will never know where this new challenge may arise, a new scientific output if we are to further develop only two, three or four research sectors. Besides, the wise ones who would say what is forward-looking today, I think, are very few here in Estonia and perhaps in the world at all. Nor does this rule out the need for more action to be taken on development and research in the whole business sector, but this would require another paradigm or thought change on the R &amp; D field. This change of thinking has actually brought our research and development work to the quality that we have today and which we are proud of. In the mid-1990s, a change was made; all Estonian research with scientists managed to emerge from the Soviet system and switch to project-based research. It was groundbreaking, it was very painful, it was painful for both people and institutions, but it gave our science the foundation that we enjoy the fruits of today. As we have heard, we are still very high in the world, given the small size of our country and the small number of scientists. Maybe we're a little late with our paradigm shift in all of our R &amp; D, but I can see it's happening. This paradigm change, which Estonian science now needs, is actually very easy to explain. It's human-centred. The human-centred nature, which ensures, on the one hand, the researcher's movement from the academic world to the world of entrepreneurship with the possibility that, if he really turns out to be incompetent in business, what can happen and unfortunately happens, he would be guaranteed the opportunity to continue in the academic sphere. This mobility is unthinkable, there are glitches in it, and these failures lead to the very low number of people with a doctorate in our public sector, also in private business. This uncertainty is written into the system, and when I leave the academic world, I have no going back there. We have not been prepared to give up this uncertainty, but we would still need it very quickly for the relationship between entrepreneurship and science, but also for the rapid development of both sectors themselves. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister didn't touch at all on this, and I am very sorry about the sciences related to Estonia. For example, Estonian geography or Estonian soil science, which is at a very good level, has been one of the most advanced in Europe. These sciences are our greatest contribution, on the one hand, to world science by the Riigikogu and, on the other hand, by the government and the entire scientific community. Because as well as living and working here in Estonia, it is possible to explore the history of Estonia, the history of Estonian relations, but also the situation of Estonian waters, we must do so. Focusing on such Estonian-centred disciplines does not mean that quality requirements should be more modest, there is no need for it. Estonia is rich enough in all its nature in every field to get international coverage when examining Estonia's own affairs. What I would like more from the government, and I am sure I would expect more, are national programmes. National programmes, their implementation and the resolution of certain societal problems and bottlenecks, are then in energy, oil shale exploration or social sciences. We have scientists, their social guarantees, and their salaries, along with the salaries of the employees of higher education institutions, must also be part of this forthcoming paradigm shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U131	Marko Pomerants will appear on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U132	I'm not taking extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U133	I didn't ask questions, yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U134	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm trying to reflect what I heard. I haven't prepared my speech. I don't prepare speeches for real life for a long time, but I don't blame anyone when he's prepared. I recently wrote a book where I also have control questions for a beginner's minister. One of the questions about control is, do you have a bachelor's degree so you don't get scolded for nothing? Why is this important today? When Kaido Kama, for example, went proudly to the Ministry of Justice in the '90s and was still praised, although he was a man of the Luua Forest School, today, when the minister goes to the Ministry, at least six young brilliant-eyed people who have obtained their doctorate and who also have the expectation that the boss would be able to respond adequately to the situation or questions that were coming. Can I have that extra time if I ask politely?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U135	Three more minutes in agreement with the President of the sitting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U136	Thanks! I made sure I could still have a nice time. If you come more specifically to research and development, I think you can draw a pretty good parallel with today's Question Time or any Riigikogu, where the situation is quite similar. Kalle Palling asked Prime Minister Ratas about environmental policy and then came to a specific place, or Tarmo Tammelt was asked about the development of Põlva County and about the euro payments, and it came to pig farming. This is actually the case with the description of R &amp; D. I'm so glad we have this signature, look, all given. 1% is such a good fresh experience and, at the same time, there is not much responsibility. How can you not go to the president, when you're called, it's supposed to be signed, isn't it, couldn't be backwards? But what's important? What is important is that now, after this great agreement, not everything has happened in itself, but we ourselves must indeed continue to be able to contribute to this content, as far as politicians have a role to play here. I'm now going to concretise this presentation of our own role. A great deal has been said about the fact that science is on a good level in Estonia and the quotibility is very good. But I was recently approached by the President of the Academy of Sciences, Mr Tarmo Soomere, with the desire that we try to find the keys to how Estonian science could better reach political parties and politicians so that it would benefit society much more. The initiative of the Estonian Research Council, 'How do you know, has been mentioned here today? 'and that political promises should be subject to a fact-finding test. This has also been done on various issues. I would like to say to respected scientists that this fact can still be established whether more than half of the alcohol is imported into Estonia from Latvia or not, it is either simply a lie or not, but Estonian scientists should also be prepared to look at our election promises from this point of view, that if they are worth it, they would also be prepared to react within this short time frame. You can always say yes, we should investigate it further and it takes time, but politicians go on with their lives, and sometimes it can either happen wrong things or things don't happen. So time is both in politics, I think, and in science, very big and important for the simple reason that people in the world are doing something all the time and should be in the same time zone. Responding to the words of Oudekki Lone, who asked Mr. Prime Minister if there would be a time when 2.5% of GDP would be spent on science, I say that such a time would come if there were as many scientists in Estonia as there would be pensioners. I guess we'd promise them all sorts of things in the pre-election period. But let's see if we can make it work to decorate this 1%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U137	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, Aadu Must.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U138	Mr Prime Minister! Dear Deputy Speaker! Good friends and colleagues! Listening to today's report on R &amp; D, I had different feelings. On the one hand, there was a great deal of pleasantness in the presentation, and on the other hand, I felt like a dinosaur, because I have heard similar presentations myself many years ago. I am sorry that I will not repeat what was said quite well in the main report and what several speakers repeated before me. I'm not going to overspoken what you made nicely out of Evgeny Ossinovski or Krista, etc. I'd rather make a little historical comparison. In the 1990s, when we also went to Europe in science, the course was simple and clear. We played for the stars: we have several good scientists, watch us and cooperate with us, we have several good people. Took ten years before they realized that the top of the pyramid was only at the top of the pyramid when it still had the foundation below. During the discussions in the Riigikogu, there was an interesting trend that we talked about in the university with colleagues and called the blanket to rip off each other. One after another, some people came to the Riigikogu's speech chair, who said that their specialty was so important and that at the expense of others, there would be a great deal of savings. I've only seen it in the last few years. After all, the year 2016 was catastrophic, see the funding for science at that time. Word in the past was, oh, we're going to the top of the world. Only poverty and misery looked through every door and window. That was a pretty horrible time. I can also give concrete examples of this story of deck tearing, but the older ones still remember the happy time when scientists were also striving for Parliament. Do you know that if a university professor goes to Parliament today, they ask that no hard thing has fallen on his head and how he gets back on the train in his own specialty? Science is developing so rapidly that there are only a few copies left that need to be taken down by nature protection that can be active scientists when they come back from Parliament. There is another very nice thing that has changed in recent years. Years ago, when the Riigikogu decided that the Prime Minister would report on research and development every year, the starting task was set as the fact that it had to be reported is precisely the one that went through here several times today about how many euros one scientist lays eggs a year. It was a prescriptive matter and R &amp; D was formulated in this report about that we are talking about real and precise sciences, all right, economics as well. One thing I have said from this remote control, but what I want to emphasise today is this: in Europe, one of the major shocks of recent science planning is that, especially after Brexit and other developments, it has been realised that science must be very broad, versatile, it must involve society, and, above all, it must help to understand society, it must help to manage it and help to get to know its roots. In this sense, Krista and I have always agreed that science is complete when we know ourselves, our unique Estonian national culture, our Estonian identity. This is a task which cannot be entrusted to private operators, but the task of carrying out many economic research can be assigned to them. The state doesn't have to develop canned matter technology for you, you're developing it yourself. But the fact that the national sciences, our history, language and culture are unique, they are attributes of the state and no one develops them beyond the state has, fortunately, come back into the speeches of the Prime Minister in the last two years. Actually, it's nice...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U139	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U140	In the old days, when I was a young Member, I was fascinated by everything and I used to clap in such a place that it was later said that you were clapping in the wrong place, it was just a report speech, not a budget guide. I have now also been monitoring what the Ministry of Education and Research is doing. I find it sympathetic to have a certain width of their activities, it is not that we take a narrow passage, but that parallel studies, parallel developments, that is all that science has to do with it, and that guarantees vitality. One last thing. European researchers and researchers of science, analysts, divide the European picture into two. That was Anne Sulling's speech today. It is an Eastern European model and it is a Western European model. It is nice to see that we are doing this spike on the map in several places: we have joint projects with Scandinavia in which we are strong, and that is why we are on several maps, oi-oi, you know, not in Eastern Europe anymore, but in northern Europe and therefore on the map of Europe. It's extremely nice. Unfortunately, our dear eastern neighbours are Latvians and Lithuanians completely beyond our borders. Whenever someone at the University of Tartu feels that something is wrong and protests are beginning very hard, we send them on a mission to colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania, they come back from there and say that we are doing well. But everything is relative and everything is comparable. The sympathetic thing is that we have once again dared to put social issues on the agenda of students and doctoral students under research. They were also under discussion ten years ago, but then there was no discussion because there was no movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U141	At the end of the debate, the Prime Minister exercises the right to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U142	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, let me thank you for today's debate. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee on Culture, its chairman and its members very much. I understand very well that this parliamentary assembly will be completed very soon. I've had the opportunity to be in front of you three times with this report. Thank you all for your cooperation. I would, of course, like to thank today's questioners, co-thinkers and speakers, as well as the representatives of the political groups. I listened to Anne Sulling and Krista Aru's presentations. We can't predict our future, but I have read the various electoral lists (truely, you can still go as an individual candidate) and it seems to me that you are not competing with the XIV Riigikogu. Maybe I'm wrong. It's sad if you don't compete. The contribution you have made has been important to me. About what you did here, Anne, I'd say that. First of all, I appreciate that you've done some very thorough research on the creation of an Applied Research Centre. You have gained a great deal of international experience, you yourself mentioned Finland, but, to my knowledge, you have done so more widely, both for Sweden and for Denmark. I believe that this idea will in any case be on the table in the next Riigikogu or in the creation of a coalition. I've told Krista many times that if you take the floor here, a big ball with a 1% face will come up over your head, and in the best sense. I think you've kept the tension well, and that's the way it should be. I would, of course, like to thank Professor Aadu Black for his speech, including Mr Ossinovski and Mr Pomerants. Krista, you brought in the soil science thing. I agree very much with you, of course, and I think that this is a very well-developed field in Estonia and this is important. But you alluded a little wider to the development and preservation of so-called national sciences. The definitions or perceptions of national science are not quite different here in the Riigikogu Hall, but in any case, I think it is right to put it into focus. I think I am not wrong when I say that it was 2017 when both you and Mr Aadu Black, and you, Krista, both of you, in your speech or in your question, brought this dimension of national science to my table very strongly. I'm sure I'm grateful to you for that. What else do I want to say? Of course, I could start arguing here with Anne about the percentages that have put more and who has less, whether we count the percentages of Statistics Estonia or the percentages of the Ministry of Finance, but in the end, I think we stand for one thing: for it to be 1%, regardless of which party's colours are represented by one or the other. I would certainly like to say a great thank you to my closest colleagues from the State Chancellery, both Henry and Anne, who have very much contributed to the preparation of this presentation today. So thank you very much! Thank you for this discussion and a lot of strength for further discussions on your working day.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U143	Next item: First reading of the Bill on Amendments to the Tobacco Act and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act (775 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Riina Sikkuti, Minister of Health and Labour of the Chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U144	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft takes over Articles 15 and 16 of the Tobacco Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. The aim of the transposition is to curb the secret market for tobacco products throughout the European Union. We have already transposed the rest of the directive, but Articles 15 and 16 have not yet been transposed in all Member States, because the implementing regulation and implementing decision of the European Commission only entered into force on 20 May last year. The draft is urgent, as the whole directive will have to be transposed by 20 May. How, then, does the European Union intend to combat the tobacco secret market? Articles 15 and 16 of the Directive state that, as from 20 May 2019, a pan-European system for the detection and monitoring of tobacco products, the so-called track and trace system, will be implemented. Traceability of sales packages of tobacco products arises. Therefore, all sales packages of tobacco products must be identified by a unique identification code consisting of numbers and letters. The system is similar to that applicable to the packaging of medicinal products. Each operator involved in the tobacco product distribution chain, from the producer to the last stage operator, before the first retail establishment, shall record all sales packages in his possession, all intermediate transactions and the final exit of the sales packages from his possession. This obligation applies to all tobacco operators, with the exception of the last store, bar or restaurant that sells the product to the customer. Thus, shopkeepers and barkeepers, who do not themselves engage in wholesale trade, do not receive much additional commitment. Information on the movement of tobacco products shall be transmitted to the data repository to which the European Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States, such as our Tax and Customs Board, have access. In essence, the journey of each cigarette pack and smoking tobacco package has been further mapped, and supervisors can at any time verify whether the cigarette package in the store is genuine, whether the data store contains data on the package and, according to these data, that package should be located in that shop or that it is a counterfeit commodity that is increasingly moving on the European market. The unique identifier of the sales package cannot be created by the manufacturer himself. It must be obtained from an independent unique identifier issuer designated by the country, either in the producer country or in Estonia. This ensures that the identification codes are really unique and that their issuance is independent of operators. However, in order to make it easier, the manufacturer can also assign a unique identifier to a group pack or package larger than it is, for example, a block, pallet or container allowing identification of all sales packages contained therein. Such a feature is easier in terms of information technology. Producers and traders have confirmed that they can create these codes. All equipment and IT solutions needed for registration are paid by tobacco manufacturers. To fulfil this obligation, tobacco manufacturers have set up a pan-European contact point through which companies are obliged to register to obtain information on equipment, procurement and reimbursement. Article 16 requires tobacco products to have a security feature in addition to this unique identifier. The tax mark used in Estonia corresponds to the weaknesses of the security element and it has therefore been decided to introduce the tax mark as a security element in Estonia. This possibility is also provided for in the Directive. In cases where the product is not subject to a tax mark, for example, tobacco products sold on board duty-free shops may be included, the manufacturer's safety feature must be placed on the product instead of the tax mark. It shall be developed by the producer or importer of the tobacco product himself, taking into account the requirements of the law and the Commission Implementing Decision. The security element of the manufacturer or importer must be presented to the Tax and Customs Board before it is put into service. Under the Directive, the rules on the traceability of tobacco products will apply to cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco from 20 May 2019 and to other tobacco products from 20 May 2024. Cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco produced in the European Union or imported here before 20 May 2019 and not marked with a unique identifier may remain in free circulation for a further year, i.e. 20 May 2020. Compliance with the Tobacco Act is monitored by the Tax and Customs Board in cooperation with the Consumer Protection Board and the Health Board. The Tax and Customs Board plays a central role in the implementation of this traceability system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U145	The round of questions will be opened by Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U146	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Can we talk about a more general tobacco policy in light of yesterday's "Actual Camera" news: out of 50 fire deaths 36 were caused by smoking? Is it not time to start selling more safer tobacco products in Estonia, which will not result in burns? Considering that one human life costs a million euros, Estonia has received 36 million euros in pants because of smoking.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U147	Thank you for your question. Indeed, we still have a high number of fire deaths, and cigarettes have played a role in this in some cases. On the other hand, it is gratifying that smoking and using tobacco products in general are in decline. This trend has been happening for years and we have reached the point that about a fifth of the population smokes. There are more smokers among men than among women, but the overall long-term downward trend has been very positive. In addition to trying to influence people's decision not to smoke, alternatives to burning tobacco products could indeed be offered. Prevention must also be addressed and advice given to quit smoking should be supported. If it's people without health insurance, we'll pay for it. But it is also a question of illegal tobacco products. This is the draft we are discussing today. The safety labelling system for pharmaceutical packaging, which has been under discussion, solves a problem that is not as big in Estonia as, for example, in Western European countries, this problem is counterfeit medicines. The directive that we are discussing today, however, is referring to a problem that has been very large in Estonia for years. This problem is the market for secret cigarettes. So the focus of this particular draft is to reduce the market for salasi cigarettes. These are then mostly these burning products. For Estonia, the amendment will hopefully have a significant impact and therefore producers will be prepared to contribute so much to this traceability system that it will give the official producers an advantage or additional guarantee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U148	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U149	Honourable Vice President! Dear Minister, I've counted, in your not very long presentation, you mentioned the Tax and Customs Board four times. The Tax and Customs Board is under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. Throughout this draft, additional tasks are assigned to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, thereby inhibiting the market for secret cigarettes, which is controlled by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, or more generally the Ministry of Finance. Ordering, designing, processing, handling, checking all tax marks is the responsibility of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board in the area of government of the Ministry of Finance. Why are you in front of us with this bill, why isn't the Minister of Finance? Is it some kind of Prime Minister Ratas' trick that he's given you to process it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U150	Indeed, this bill has been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board. The Tobacco Directive as a whole has many aspects in mind and many of them concern health. Articles 15 and 16 are indeed more relevant to the work of the Tax and Customs Board, but the whole of the transposition of the Tobacco Directive has been dealt with by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board has been involved in drafting the draft, has been informed and understands the additional workload that is falling to itself. But since the Tax and Customs Board is also involved in restricting the secret market, controlling it, in fact, this track and trace system should facilitate their work. If you contribute to this, the secret market will be smaller.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U151	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking for your last answer. The impact analysis acknowledges that the administrative burden may increase, while the risk of undesirable effects is said not to reduce the share of the secret market. So which one is it? Is that what you said before?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U153	Looking at the trend of the last two years, the number of cigarettes bought illegally has increased. So, in fact, a positive effect is also a failure to maintain growth. But there will be no big leap after 20 May 2019 when the directive is transposed. This is a longer-term impact and it is possible to monitor whether or not there are legal cigarettes throughout the supply chain.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U154	Aivar Sõerd, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I did not understand your answer. This sort of confirmed that the draft regulates 99% of the area of government of the Ministry of Finance. I am surprised that the draft has not been discussed by the Riigikogu in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If I'm wrong, fix it!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U156	The Social Affairs Committee did.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U157	But how's that? This is an amendment to the Tax Act, the draft regulates the work of the Tax and Customs Board, it is a tax matter. How is it possible that this will not be dealt with by the Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs? Was the Committee on Monetary Affairs passed because it is simply urgent because the government has not been able to prepare the draft in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U158	Thank you for your question. This bill is indeed being dealt with by the Social Affairs Committee. This is not about the taxation of tobacco products, but about the labelling of packages. Packages also contain health warnings, both visually effective photographs and text. The design of the packages has been more regulated by the Ministry of Social Affairs. We're not gonna change the rate of tobacco duty, we're not gonna raise it. The draft does not affect excise policy, it affects the labelling of packages and the way tobacco products move in the supply chain. Whether the control of the authenticity of tobacco products is more a matter of the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Social Affairs can be disputed. I wouldn't say it's strictly a ministry responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U159	Thank you very much, Honorable Minister. Helmen Küttt gives us an overview of the procedure that took place in the Committee on Social Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U160	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! On 10 December the Government of the Republic initiated this bill and already on 17 December the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu began to discuss this issue. Riina Sikkut, Minister of Health and Labour, Triinu Täht, Adviser to the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Anneli Kivitoa, Chief Specialist of the Customs Policy Implementation Service of the Tax and Customs Board, Andreas Sõlg and Adviser to the Parliament's Committee on European Union Affairs Katry Ahi participated in the discussion. Before I begin to give an overview of the Commission's work, I will be very clear on the reason why the European Commission's advisor took part in the session. This was due to the fact that Ellex Raidla Advokaadibüroo OÜ had addressed the European Commission on 13 December. In the appeal, the Estonian Code was asked to explain the transposition of the Tobacco Directive 2014/40/EU. That is why the advisor to the European Commission also attended our meeting. It was not until 7 January this year that ELAK discussed this appeal. But what happened in the Committee on Social Affairs on 17 December? The Minister gave an in-depth overview of the urgency of the draft proposal, as amended by Article 15 of the Directive and amended by Article 16. He also said that the requirements for cigarettes and RY tobacco packages should be applied as early as 20 May this year and for other tobacco products as early as 20 May 2024. Our debate and questions focused on the following: The question was how exactly the product checks are carried out. The Minister replied that the identification code on the packaging of tobacco products was read by the label reader. This explains whether it is a legal product. Andreas Sõlg, representative of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, added that checks are usually carried out without opening the package because the unique identifier is on the bottom of the package and can be used to check the route of the product. Maris Lauri asked whether the unique identifier should be placed on the package by the importer. Advisor to the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Triinu Täht replied that a unique identifier would already be placed on the package during production. Where a product comes from a country outside the European Union, the importer must enter this identifier himself. In Estonia, such production accounts for a very small part of the market. Raivo Põldaru wondered if there was a safety feature on the packaging of the product, as well as a tax mark. The Triinu Star replied that there really are two things: one is a unique identifier and the other is a security feature. I was interested in how the change would affect the administrative burden. Triinu Täht explained that the obligation to register the movement of the product is valid until the first retail operator. In essence, it is carried out by large importers, wholesalers and supermarket chains with a central warehouse. A company selling tobacco products to consumers in bars, shops, restaurants and stalls is subject to this obligation. We were also interested in why the draft has only now reached the Commission. There is still very little time to process, including meeting stakeholders. It was explained to us that it was not possible to come up with this earlier because the European Commission adopted the Implementing Decision and the Implementing Regulation only in spring 2018 and the Regulation entered into force on 20 May. The deadline is one year and therefore the timetable is very tight. In Estonia, Riigikogu elections also add to the problem. In other countries where there are currently no elections, the formations will have longer time to deal with the draft. Maris Lauri asked whether the change would extend to cigar packaging. The answer was that it applied to cigars and cigarillos from May 20, 2024. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 16 January; to propose that the first reading be closed; to set 23 January as the deadline for amendments; and to appoint Mr Kütt, the chairman of the committee, as the rapporteur. These decisions were all consensual. Now, as I have already said, on 7 January a meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee was held at which the address of Mr Ellex Raidla Advokaadibüroo OÜ was discussed. I would also recommend that my fellow Members read the minutes of this meeting, because I am not going to report it to you. I will just stop at a few things, because, as a result of this meeting on 14 January, we once again discussed draft 775. At its meeting on 7 January, the Committee on European Union Affairs explained, by the mouth of Toomas Vitsut, that the draft law 775 on tobacco law is in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Attorneys-at-Law has returned to the European Union Affairs Committee and proposed to amend the law. It should be noted that the content of the 775 SE is not directly related to the content of the proposal by the law firm, but the law that is being discussed is, of course, the same. The amendments proposed by the law firm concern novel tobacco products, but only the transposition of two very important provisions of the directive. These are Articles 15 and 16. In the Committee on European Union Affairs, many of the same questions were raised as those raised in the Committee on Social Affairs. Of course, the problem that the law firm had brought to the table was discussed. We are talking about whether to create a new category of heated tobacco products and also lay down health warnings and other requirements for them. In this light, it was pointed out that the notification of the technical standard provided for in the Directive could be a longer process. If this change is national, it will have to be coordinated with the European Commission and all Member States, but if the changes result from the Directive, there will be no obligation to notify. This debate in the Committee on European Union Affairs was long and thorough. Finally, the Commission decided that they would not decide whether to create a third category of tobacco products. They sent a letter to the Social Affairs Committee proposing to include an additional category of tobacco products in the Tobacco Act. Five people voted in favour, no one against and one member of the Commission abstained. As a result of the information we received from the Committee on European Union Affairs, on 14 January, the Committee on Social Affairs retabled the very draft with which we are in this Chamber today, i.e. 775 SE. We were given a comprehensive overview of the discussion at ELAK. We also read this letter that was sent to us. We had a lot of questions from across the political parties. For example, what is the position of the Ministry of Social Affairs as to whether it is considered necessary to include a new category of tobacco products in the pending draft. They also asked how long it would take if they decided to do so. The Committee on Social Affairs should then involve other stakeholders, because the inclusions so far have been made only in the light of the two articles of the directive. Members of the Commission considered the current draft to be a single issue, and the introduction of a new issue must be very justified. There is no doubt that the introduction of this issue is not, and it would take a long time to discuss the broad range of amendments. Thus, the 775 bill would not be adopted in the current Riigikogu. There would also be questions as to why there are issues relating to the taxation of products at all to be dealt with by the Committee on Social Affairs, which would already be taxation issues if a new category were created. The draft directive on two articles, which we are talking about at the moment, does not concern taxation. Its subject is clearly within the competence of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but of course the Ministry has prepared it in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance as well as the Tax and Customs Board. When an additional issue such as the new category of tobacco products is brought to the table, it is undoubtedly necessary to involve all other stakeholders and tax issues must also be discussed. Consequently, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu decided to turn to the Ministry of Social Affairs in a letter where we ask for the topic discussed in the European Union Affairs Committee, which was raised by the law firm, to discuss very seriously, to initiate a new draft law if necessary, and to involve all stakeholders in its drafting. We should negotiate with the Ministry of Finance and all the interest groups that would be affected by this change. The Committee on Social Affairs, however, goes on with draft 775 to transpose the two articles of the directive and enforce the law. The deadline is really 20 May 2019. We do not need to create a situation where we, as a country, cannot accept it. The opinions of the stakeholders with whom this issue has been discussed are set out in a detailed table of the explanatory memorandum. The Committee on Social Affairs was very unanimous in deciding that we would continue to discuss the matter and go to second reading if it was supported by the honourable Chamber. I also note that Triinu Täht, representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, did not oppose the debate on the subject raised by the law firm at the meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee. For example, Latvia and Finland have such a category of troubaka products. But it would make sense to look at the subject as a whole. It is not wise for us to introduce this proposed amendment to the law on the basis of a referral from another committee here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U161	Tarmo Kruusimäe question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U162	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We are fighting a secret market here, knowing that 1/3 of the cigarette smokers have gone to other tobacco products. Now there is a situation where, from 1 July, other tobacco products will lose their tastes and excise duty will be unspeakable. Can you imagine what the secret market for other tobacco products will become? Today we are only talking about cigarettes on this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U163	Thank you very much for this question. I'm sure I can imagine it, and I'm ready to tell you about it after I leave this hall. As regards draft law 775 in the Commission, this question did not arise, but we can certainly discuss it in the future. I would like to stress once again that this transposition and entry into force of the directives on 20 May 2019 will certainly limit the spread of salasi cigarettes, as it will provide an opportunity to control everything. But I really cannot answer you any other way, because this question did not arise in the Commission, and I am currently a rapporteur for the Commission. But thank you for this question, this is certainly a concern. Your question to the Minister was about the death of fire, but no law is already prohibiting people from switching to tobacco products used without derivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U164	Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U165	Good chairman of the committee! Someone has introduced a minor error in the text prepared for your report, because these fine novel tobacco products should not be heated tobacco products, but heated tobacco products. They are not heating the consumer, they are heating themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U166	I thank you for this question, honourable fellow Member of the Committee on Social Affairs. No one has prepared a text for me. If I was wrong, it was my own glitch. Thank you for your attention. We are undoubtedly talking about the category of tobacco products to be heated. I've taken the minutes of the sittings as a basis, and it's all written correctly. The slip of the tongue! But thanks for fixing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U167	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U168	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. I will come back once more to the social impact of this regulation. It says that better results are being achieved in health care so that the money spent on health is reduced. At the same time, it is said that the social impact is also that the share of the secret market will not be reduced and that public health indicators will not improve as a result. Do I get the contradiction wrong? You said the share of the secret market was decreasing, but the social impact assessment says that maybe it isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U169	Thank you. The same question was also for the Minister. I must say that we did not notice this in the Commission. No one raised that question. But we will certainly ask a question about this before we read the second reading. There really seems to be a slight contradiction. However, the Commission did not raise this issue. The minister's answer, as I heard here, left some questions. But we will certainly discuss this in our committee before we come to second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U170	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U171	Dear Deputy Speaker! Mr President of the Commission. Then why did you scorn that heated cigarette, vote it off? We have students from Sweden in Tartu saying that they want to do Tartu or campus free of tobacco smoke, like Sweden. I don't smoke, I don't have my own experience, I only know the subject from others, but, yeah, the students say they'd like this new product, which the doctors also think is much less carcinogenic, much healthier. Why don't you let the new product in?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U172	Thank you very much, my dear fellow official, for this question. As Mr Vasilyev said, we are talking about heated products, not heating products. In fact, the content of the 775 SE is not this subject. Its content is not that we create a new category of heated tobacco products. This draft law concerns only the transposition of Articles of the Directive. The introduction of this new issue was a debate in the Committee on European Union Affairs, and we are asking the Ministry to prepare a new draft and suddenly to introduce this new category into our Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U173	Thanks to the waitress! There are no more questions. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. On behalf of the Group of the Isamaa of Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U174	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! This time, I'm going to use the internship mediation, and I'm going to turn to all the voters. Oops, I'd like to talk to you! I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U175	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U176	If there was any way, I'd take another ten minutes, but let's stick to that. This time, I want to address, above all, all of you who smoke or consume other tobacco products and who have been treated for decades by government policy as another Estonia. First you're a smoker, then you're a person and third you're a voter, but no one cares about your opinion on tobacco policy. I don't think so. I think we should straighten our backs out. We have 20% of the population, and if we think we're still passive smokers here, it's actually an important number of people. From time to time, the media are caught by some politician who has dared to smoke in public, but generally everything is nicely clended, whisked and fought against tobacco. Some call them moral disciples, others do not. It's man's free rein. And we're just being deceived by this appearance, like we're all fighting against it. For some reason, at the race to ban and fight for the health of the seeming people, we see the social democrats first and foremost. How will they still be able to impose appropriate restrictions on us, the common people, the social people? I wonder why I remember alcohol policy as the best in Europe. In the shadow of this, however, tobacco policy has been made with indiscriminate instruments and measures. In recent years, has any proposal to amend the original text of the Tobacco Act passed through the Social Committee of the Riigikogu? None! None, because the Social Ministry of Social Affairs, led by the Sots, has come to the socialists with a perfectly suitable draft, the changes of which cannot actually be made. Everything is foreseen in the Committee on Social Affairs, everything has been confirmed in the Socialist Group before, and no mouse will be involved in this debate, much less a representative of another group. And the mice no longer dare to beep, because the answers that the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who are above the Constitution, as the Chancellor of Justice recently admitted, allow themselves to be given to members of the Riigikogu, signal the invisible but perceived power of certain politicians. People's health is theirs, these few officials alone know what it is and what the best means of achieving good public health are. To make sure that you, my voter, are well, too. Anyone who has dared to ask about the policy instruments or even scarier, to question something, to comment on new developments that have been deliberately encouraged, has each received a hand in return from the officials. It has been claimed that all of us have been bought. Does anyone still believe in idealistic personal freedom? I don't want to believe the conspiracy theories, but I have the impression that we've been caught in a trap that takes a lot of courage to break out of it, so big it can't be seen anywhere. Perhaps my few fellow fighters have dared to face the authority of officials. It's as if these officials know better what's best for us. The Soots also know this better than we do, and it is they who have had all the positions in recent years in which decisions on this matter are made. Of course, it's convenient to agree with yourself. Smokers, also passive smokers, come and choose everyone on March 3rd! According to the Institute for Health Development, tobacco users are around 20% of the adult population. This means that 20 seats in this Riigikogu should be able to choose us. Does any party dare to go to the elections with the promise that Estonian smokers must have access to the best and most recent scientific achievements, that they must have access to products that are less harmful than cigarettes of all kinds? Does anyone dare say that if anything should definitely become less accessible, they are cigarettes? No, it is not something that any party dares to proclaim, in fact, either the Fatherland, the Centre Party, or the Reformers, because the environment created by Sots is too dangerous for that to happen. But I'm really worried about all of us. You may not notice that trampling under our rights continues at an accelerated rate, regardless of who wins the election. No one dares to change the unwise decisions that have already been taken on tobacco policy. Firstly, banning the tastes of e-cigarettes from 1 July this year, this public health idea came from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs wrote it into law without any special scientific justification. Secondly, the non-placing on the market of less harmful products. The saga of heated products has been extremely striking for years. Despite the error that has arisen with the transposition of the directive and over a year's discussion in the Committee on European Union Affairs, which we have been talking about here, this is still an issue that is being thrown from one hand to another as a hot potato in the Committee on Social Affairs. Third, hiding tobacco-related information and products in a closet with cigarettes, as early as 1 July 2019. Fourthly, the introduction of an unspeakable excise duty on e-cigarettes, which directs consumers back to unsuitable cigarettes for public health purposes. People pick cigarettes. Tobacco-flavoured e-liquid so that the quitter does not forget the taste of the cigarette and it is easier for him to return to it. The ban on online sales..of course, cigarettes should only be abandoned by urban people. In rural areas where the availability of e-cigarette is close to zero, let the people get cigarettes from the secret market, which they have been doing for decades. So this is the plan to improve public health! We refuse to choose simply forbidding! Thank you, Mr Ossinovski. Smokers are marked by a large statistical number in a table of self - destructive diseases and deaths, but the health of a smoker is important only when he has been able to completely give up tobacco and nicotine. Only then is he human. If he hasn't done it, like me and the other 20% of the invisible voters, he's not important enough. Look at the party election programs! No one dares to write down tobacco policy there but perhaps that we are raising excise duties. A lot of people don't even have the guts to write it. The smoker knows what he's doing. We give him a choice to continue or finish, but we give him no other choice, because less harmful products are not wanted to talk to him. Anyone who dares to speak is immediately tagged, such as the accusation that the advertiser has bought him. It is therefore necessary to rely on the information provided by the State. Smoker voter, open tobacco info.ee or nna.ee or read about the new population health development plan that will be locked up for the next 10 years before the elections! This means that even if a political party disappears from the Riigikogu, we will continue to reap its fruits for a long time. Passive smokers and regular smokers! I hope that the next four years will be those where we will not have to break the New Year's promises, but we will have less dangerous choices on how to live longer. These 36 people who have been killed in a fire caused by tobacco smoking are EUR 36 million. Every human life has irreparable value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U177	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 775. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 23 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U178	Next item: First reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Rescue Services Act (768 SE). Welcome to the Riigikogu premiere for the first time, Minister of the Interior Katri Raik!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U179	Good evening, I think you can say that, Mr Riigikogu and the President of the Honourable Session. The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Rescue Services Act, which makes the regulation of the organisation of the work of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board more flexible and legal clarity. I'll tell you what, it shouldn't be a bill that raises a lot of questions. The development of the draft is due to the need to organise more flexible arrangements for the appointment of the Deputy Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board and the upgrading of the ranks of police officers. The Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board is to be given the power to designate the protected persons and the means of carrying out their protection, as well as to amend the institution responsible for calculating and paying police pensions, to ensure that rescue workers are subject to on-call time in accordance with the Civil Service Act and the Employment Contracts Act, and to supplement the implementing provision to increase the pension for rescue workers in the interests of legal clarity. Now a little bit more specific about the changes. At present, the law regulates very narrowly which positions in the area of security the person must have worked in advance in order to be appointed Deputy or Prefect of the Police and Border Guard Board. However, this kind of preparation is not always necessary in practice in these positions, and the necessary knowledge and skills could be related, for example, to the economy or to the law, rather than, for example, to the establishment of an eastern border. It should therefore be possible to appoint persons from other ministries, other bodies or the private sector to these posts. As a result, we have proposed more specific requirements for the Director-General, Deputy or Prefect of the Police and Border Guard Board to be laid down in a regulation. It also complies with the general rules: requirements for the Chancellor of the Ministry, the Deputy Secretary-General, the Director of the State Chancellery, the Director-General of the Office and the Inspectorate, the Deputy Chief Executive and the Head of the Structural Unit of the Ministry are laid down in the Regulation. I would add that we have submitted such a draft regulation to the Committee on Legal Affairs. As I have already said, making such requirements at the level of the regulation is quite a common approach. And I will immediately answer one question that will probably come: it is certainly not the intention to create a post for a particular person. In addition, according to the draft, we have given the Director-General the power to authorise another competent person to designate protected persons. I would like to point out immediately that the circle of protected persons is not expanding or narrowing. Under the amendment, protected persons may be designated in the future, for example by order or by internal procedures. These changes will make it possible to make the process of granting protection easier and more efficient. In addition, we recognise information on the protection of persons and the surveillance of objects as internal information in order to ensure better protection of national security capabilities. The latest significant change in police and rescue services concerns the competence to grant a degree of service. At present, only the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board may change the grade, while the Deputy Director-General and the Prefect are also qualified to appoint. As other directors also have the authority to appoint, they can also give an additional degree of service when it comes to granting the lowest level of employment. The Director-General's mandate is therefore to be sub-delegated. Two amendments to the Rescue Services Act have been proposed. First, the provision governing the non-application of the Civil Service Act and the Employment Contracts Act to rescue workers during the on-call period is repealed. This is a technical change which is necessary to ensure legal clarity. In practice, the remuneration of on-call time has not caused any problems, as the Rescue Board has paid the on-call time premium on the basis of the Public Service Act and the Employment Contracts Act. On the other hand, the draft amends the implementing provisions for increasing the retirement pension for rescue workers. According to the current law, an increase in the survivor's pension and the maintenance of the pension will be valid for 15 years from the date of entry into force of the Act, i.e. until 1 March 2023. The amendment provides that a person does not have to be retired by that date in order to be entitled to an increase in pension. We clearly state that, as from 1 March 2023, the period of service required to increase the old-age pension of a rescue worker shall cease to be calculated, but shall at that time have the necessary service to increase the pension, and shall be entitled to a higher pension even if they retire after that period. In addition, the law is supplemented by the provision that savers who do not retire directly from the rescue service are also entitled to an increase in the old-age pension of the rescue worker. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are accustomed to talking about the shortage of police officers and problems with secondary growth. I would like to point out that in the next five years, 300 rescuers - 10% of the families of rescuers - will also begin to reach retirement age, which is also a major challenge to Estonia's internal security as a possible shortage of police officers in the future. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the cost of the draft. The implementation of the Act entails the payment of a higher old-age pension to rescue workers who were in and left the rescue service in 2018 but who have at least 10 years of service at the time of their retirement age. Between 2018 and 2023, the estimated cost of paying a higher pension to retired or retired former rescue staff is up to a maximum of EUR 1.6 million. Expenditure for 2019 will be covered by the special pensions and pension increases planned in the state budget, and the money needed for the years 2020 to 2023 will be decided in the process of drawing up the state budget strategy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U180	Peter Ernits, first question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U181	Good manager! Minister of the Interior! We last met at this scandalous meeting, the migration treaty meeting in front of Toompea Castle, where Indrek Tarand, a member of your team, caused a lot of trouble. Supposedly, after that, he was also made with alcoholics. I take this opportunity to ask if there is an alcohol test and is it possible to see it? But here's the question. The rescuers are now getting a little more pension, a total of EUR 79000 next year. How many saviors does it divide? What is the average increase in one savior's pension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U182	First of all, the challenge of Indrek Tarand. Of course, I haven't seen this alcoholic test myself, and I haven't taken an interest in it either, but I'll find out to you and let you know exactly how it was. As regards the rise in the pension for the rescuers, I must also specify that. I will answer you in writing. However, in all the changes I have mentioned, it is important that the savior receives a higher pension even if he does not retire directly from the service, but the ten-year period is earned. Understandably, it is not possible for everyone to be a savior until the age of 64. But we must value our saviors as highly as we value our police officers. I'll probably owe you an answer on two details because of my short period of work, but I promise I'll answer in writing tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U183	Raivo Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U184	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! When a few years ago the police put in place the same system of ranks, or ranks, one of the goals was certainly that it should, in a sense, be a motivator. Well, it's known that in uniform people are very important. That was one of the reasons why the police restored the banner system. Now we give down and simplify the right to pagunas or to uplift ranks. The question is this: do you think that this move does not devalue this motivating aspect? And the other part of the question: the appointment of the Deputy Director-General is also intended to be simplified. I understand the Director-General can hire them himself. It used to be a minister's role.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U185	Thank you for your question. First of all, the Director-General's jurisdiction. It's not like that. It's still a matter for the Minister. It is a question of the requirements that are set out in the regulation, in other words, this person does not necessarily have to be a police officer. Police and Border Guard are really big. Sometimes it feels like it's too big, and it's not easy to control. The question is whether the Deputy Director-General could also come from, for example, the field of economy or law. He doesn't necessarily have to be in the service of the Police and Border Guard Board. That's the point of this change. As far as grades of service are concerned, we are talking about lower grades of service, not upper ones. And it's about the size of the organization again. Perhaps it is even reasonable that this first banner is provided by the "higher police officer" as close as possible, such as the prefect, who obviously is best informed about the performance of his subordinates. Yeah, it's decentralisation, but it seems reasonable to me for such a large organization.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U186	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U187	Good manager! Dear waitress, The Saviors are going to have a life, I hope, now for the better. I hope you're keeping an eye on so-called office brothers don't get that promised raise, as the line rescuers have been afraid so far. In front of Toompea Castle, too, we have been repeatedly asked to stand up for this. I also ask you to make sure that this 1000-euro salary goes to the real rescuers. But my question is, what is the average pension for the savior now? And you said you'd find out how much more is coming to this average.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U188	Thank you for your question. First of all, the savior will get, yes, from 1 January this year, the savior who drives the rescue car out to 1000 euros and, in fact, to over 1100 euros. Inevitably, the savior is also on duty at night and during public holidays. These are the salaries that we are trying to regulate in a very unambiguous manner under this law. As regards the increase in salaries at various levels of service, I went to the Rescue Board yesterday, and the Director-General of the Rescue Board gave me, among other things, an overview of the remuneration policy of the Agency. The biggest wage increase, with over 23% waiting for the rescuers of the first line or the front line. Indeed, the union of rescuers has raised the question of whether the wages of the superiors, or even the employees of the office, have increased unfairly. I have brought myself up to speed on this subject, and I agree with the solutions of Director General Kuno Tammearu. I don't see anything in them that's worth complaining about. The increase in pension is 240 euros for rescuers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U189	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good minister! It is clear that changes in the pensions of rescuers should alleviate the problem of the shortage of rescuers. But the question is that the rescuers are relatively old, many are about to retire. In the meantime, isn't there going to be a hole? Because the savior is learned at school, mostly at the Väike-Maarja study center. Doesn't that hole occur? Isn't that a threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U191	Thank you for your question. Yeah, it's a threat. As I said, 300 rescuers are retiring by 2023, or more than 10%. That's a lot. As Rector of the former National Defence Academy, I am familiar with the preparation of the rescuers. Unfortunately, not all study places have been completed in the Väike-Maarja study centre of the Salvation College in recent years. It is a vocational training procedure for the rescuers of the front line. The preparation of police officers, including at higher education level, has also been a particular priority. We certainly must not dismantle the preparation of rescue staff in Estonia at the higher education level, which takes place in Tallinn in the study building of the Estonian Academy of Defence. The latter has more recently adopted distance learning learners, as well as stationary learners for more than a year. Surely, the education of the rescuers requires even greater attention. It is important to find flexible ways of learning so that you can also come to study by people who have a second or, in fact, a third education, who have previously learned something at a vocational school or higher education. Such flexible ways of learning have already been designed for police officers; perhaps we need to be more flexible than before in the training of rescuers. We talked about this yesterday with Director General Kuno Tammearu and we jointly found that more attention needed to be given to introducing the profession of savior. I hope that the increase in wages will further contribute to the increase in the popularity of the profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U192	Dear Minister of the Interior, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Mr Hardi Volmer, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U193	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to present the minutes of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the subject discussed above. The session was held on Monday 17 December last year. Leaded by Jaanus Karilaid, the protocol of Tiina Kärsna. Other participants included Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Mati Raidma, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomas, Linnar as Advisor to Liivamägi, and Raini Laid as Adviser to and Secretary to the Secretariat. Olga Ivanova was absent. The Minister of the Interior, Katri Raik, was invited, of course, as well as the Minister's Adviser Kristen Kanarik and the Legal Adviser of the Staff Policy Department, Svetlana Master. This then concerns the second item in the sitting on this subject. Everything that was mentioned there just passed on to you through the mouth of an honorable minister, and I will not go over it again. I'll tell you what kind of questions we've got. Küliki Kübarsepp asked whether the costs mentioned in point 7 of the draft explanatory memorandum also included the costs of the draft regulation on special pensions pending in Parliament. The Master of Svetlana explained that the costs mentioned in the explanatory memorandum only concern draft 768. The Hatter asked if the circle of protected persons would remain the same. The Master of Svetlana confirmed that the circle of the defendants will not be expanded. Before adopting the draft, Vilja Toomas asked the Committee on Legal Affairs to submit to the Committee on Legal Affairs the professional requirements, conditions and procedure for amending Regulation No 15 of the Minister of Internal Affairs of 12 April 2013 'Police Officer and Officer in the function of Head of the Structural Unit of the Police and Border Guard Board'. In particular, he was interested in what claims were made to those persons. The Svetlana Master has promised to send this document. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 16 January, i.e. today's sitting, secondly to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 23 January. Hardi Volmer was appointed rapporteur. All of these four points were warmly welcomed by a complete consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U194	Mr Hardi Volmer, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, you do not seem to have any questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U195	Nice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U196	I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 768. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 768 amendments, including 23 January at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U197	We are going to the sixth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the Trademark Act, the Industrial Design Protection Act and the Act amending other laws (765 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U198	Honourable Vice-President of Parliament! High representative of the people! The Government of the Republic is pursuing the following objectives by means of this several draft law amending the law. Firstly, to improve the quality of the settlement of disputes relating to intellectual property rights by granting them exclusive jurisdiction to the Harju County Court. Secondly, make the proceedings of the Patent Office more effective in the areas of trademark and design, in particular through the use of electronic procedures. And thirdly, to make it possible, in the practice of sworn advocates, to acquire the patent attorney's profession and thus to remove possible constitutional clashes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U199	Honourable Minister of Justice! No questions for you. Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Aasa, Member of the Economic Commission, to speak as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U200	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Well, after introducing such a thorough and exhaustive bill, it's hard to add anything. Let me simply give a brief overview of what took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs before the first reading of this draft. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this issue on 17 December 2018. The meeting was attended by Sven Sester, Toomas Kivimägi, Arto Aas, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrand, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Peeter Ernits, Tarmo Kruusimäe and as guests Gea Lepik, adviser to the private law department of the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice. The Minister first gave the members of the Commission an overview of the purpose of this act. In the Commission, this review was a little more comprehensive and then a brief discussion. For example, Tarmo Kruusimäe asked whether the Tartu County Court could also deal with disputes concerning intellectual property rights in the future. The Minister reiterated that, as stated in the draft, this is a quite specific area. Since most of these things have been discussed so far at the Harju County Court, this will continue to be the case in the future. It's a rational choice. I myself looked into whether it would be easier to become a patent attorney in the future. I can predict that this is the only question we will discuss here at second reading. Indeed, if lawyers want the rights of a patent attorney too, how easy it should be. According to the draft, this process is much more liberal, much simpler. It is not so difficult to acquire a patent attorney's office, but the Bar Association has already signalled to us in good time that it could be even easier because they are actively working on these issues every day. At least it's part of the lawyers. But according to the current bill, lawyers have to pass the patent attorney's exam. The main question is whether this exam is necessary or not. We already had one meeting with both patent attorneys and representatives of the Bar Association; they have different views. But the initiators of the bill thought that the current solution was sufficient. A lawyer needs certain work experience in this field and needs to take an exam. If these conditions are met, they will be ready to hold the office of patent attorney with all rights. And that was basically all that was discussed in the Commission at the time. The consensus made all procedural decisions. Firstly, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for today, 16 January; secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed; and thirdly, to set the deadline for the amendments at five working days, 23 January 2019 at 17.00. And earlier it had been decided that I, Arto Aas, would be the rapporteur for this draft by the Commission. All decisions in the Commission were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U201	Good waitress, there are questions for you. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U202	Thank you. Since the report by the Minister of Justice was so thorough and urgent, I didn't even have time to ask the question, I'm asking you. You mentioned the simplification of becoming a patent attorney. But there is one small detail that has been in dispute between the patent attorneys and the barrister when making this draft. It's a question of supervision. Did the question of supervision also arise in the Commission, and when it did, did the Minister say anything about it? In other words, when a lawyer becomes a patent attorney, it is as if only the barrister's office could supervise him, but in fact he will become a member of the patent attorneys' association and the supervision of the patent attorneys' activities should still be within the competence of the patent attorneys' association.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U203	If I remember correctly, we did not have a thorough discussion of this in the Commission. That's what the protocol says. That was a discussion later, when we had a meeting with interest groups in the working group. This is really one of the questions upstairs. Who can, however, do the work of the patent attorney and who will do the supervision? After all, the House of Patent Attorneys has been created, who should actually receive members and organise all the work within the sector and ensure professionalism. Patent attorneys are the only ones who can represent clients in the Patent Office and the Industrial Property Appeal Committee, and lawyers can do so elsewhere. So, in my opinion, supervision is also a matter of second reading, which solution will be chosen. Lawyers cited the area of insolvency practitioners as an example. There has been a very sensible solution that lawyers can also act in this area. Let us see if this model fits the world of trademarks and patent attorneys.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U204	Dear Arto Aas, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 765. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 765 amendments, including at 17 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U205	We are going to the last item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Defence Forces Organisation Act (783 SE), initiated by the Special Committee on Security Supervision. I would like to ask for a chair of speech from the Chair of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, Raivo Aegis.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U206	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the regular hearing of the security authorities, the Special Committee on the Supervision of Parliament's Security Authorities will also listen to the reviews of the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre and discuss issues related to its organisation at its meetings. In 2016, the Commission held a discussion with the then head of the intelligence centre, Kaupo Rosina. At that time, the members of the Commission wondered whether the legislative provisions, the legislative framework, would allow the intelligence centre to carry out its tasks with maximum efficiency. As a result of this discussion, a number of factors emerged which also require the legislator's intervention so that the structural unit, which was established by the State to ensure the security of the state and which is working within the Defence Forces, could carry out its tasks with maximum efficiency and justify the contribution of taxpayers' money to its maintenance. If there is a situation where the state has created a structural unit guaranteeing the security of the state and spent considerable resources on supplying it, but at the same time has not provided the structural unit with enough tools to do its job, it is, to put it mildly, a waste of resources. At the meeting, it was agreed that the intelligence centre would map out its needs and its shortcomings and, in cooperation with the General Staff of the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence, the Riigikogu would receive a draft from the government aimed at making corrections to the Defence Forces Organisation Act so that the existing shortcomings would be eliminated. In the meantime, the composition of the government changed. The new minister took office and prepared this bill both in the Defence Forces and in the Ministry of Defence. More active action was taken last year. As this is a draft on state security, but also a very important issue of methods and measures to ensure the fundamental freedoms and rights of persons, the draft was, in some respects, quite intense and time-consuming in the Government and in the Security Committee of the Government. In parallel, the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu and the National Defence Committee continued to deal with the draft. Joint discussions and consultations led to the conclusion that a draft law was necessary. In order to meet the needs of the intelligence centre as soon as possible, the aim was to adopt the bill as a law during the term of office of the XIII Riigikogu. As I said, the debate on the draft law in the government was in some sense stalled, in some ways lingered, and the traditional move that the Government of the Republic had submitted a draft law to the Riigikogu was no longer an option. This would not have allowed the time frame to fit into the existing one. And since the purpose of this composition was to adopt the draft 783 as a law, in agreement with the Ministry of Defence, we took an unprecedented step: the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, which does not normally initiate the drafts, took on the role of initiator this time and presented the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act to the Board of the Riigikogu at the end of last year. Although the draft was initiated by a special committee, it was actually ready because it had been written in very close cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. Both in substance and in form, the draft has passed a careful examination of the officials of the ministries. Therefore, it should certainly be suitable for processing. The draft amends the Defence Forces Organisation Act so that the Defence Forces will generally have additional opportunities in three respects to improve the overall possibilities of the Intelligence Centre and the Defence Forces to ensure their performance, internal security and internal control. First of all, the future law will provide the Defence Forces with more effective measures to exercise control over the integrity of those with whom cooperation or a service relationship is planned. These internal control measures also extend to members of the Defence Forces or persons in a relationship with whom a contract of employment or employment has been concluded. Secondly, by amending the law, the Defence Forces are also given additional opportunities to cooperate secretly with the intelligence centre and, of course, secret cooperation methods and measures are also used in intelligence to check the background and reliability of persons involved in secret cooperation, in order to ensure the reliability and truthfulness of the information received, in particular from secret co-workers. And the third option, which is added to this draft, when it enters into force as a law, is the security of the Defence Forces' security areas and the prevention of security incidents in security areas. So this is a necessary amendment to the law, which will make an additional contribution to the security of Estonia. As a result, please support the draft law and proceed with it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U207	Thank you. You have questions too. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! Listening to your presentation and knowing how long the Republic of Estonia has been in existence, it became a feeling that this law was not considered necessary. This can indeed now be seen as a victory for the Riigikogu commission, which may make things in the Estonian state better. Is that the right idea, or is there something wrong with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U209	I hope someone remembers a little bit about history. I have not been to the meetings of the Security Commission of the Government, but the Special Committee on Security Authorities has held two joint sessions with the National Defence Commission, and there is also a topic that we feel under the name of the Defence Forces intelligence scandal. Well, there are fears and ghost visions that still live on in our society, even though it's been many years since that reconnaissance scandal. During that time, the organization has drawn very fundamental conclusions from the problems of that time. There were also mismanagement errors and there were definitely shortcomings in the organisation. By now, the organisation has certainly evolved a great deal when defining its values as well. As a result of this reconnaissance scandal, the activities of the Defence Forces were known to be significantly impeded in the reconnaissance landscape. At the same time, we are still thinking of the objective that if there is one structure, then the state must be able to trust it. It must not be the case that the state is creating one of the structural units guaranteeing security, but it does not trust it at the same time. Then the necessary frame changes or changes to the regulations must be made so that the structure becomes credible and can be put to work for the best of the state. As far as the Commission's job is concerned, I do not know which committee's job it is. I told you how this bill was born. This idea was made available at a monitoring committee meeting, but the draft was essentially developed in cooperation between the Defence Forces and the Ministry of Defence. It was discussed quite intensively in the Government of the Republic and in the Security Committee of the Government, and we dealt with it in cooperation with our good colleagues from the National Defence Committee. So it certainly cannot be regarded as a win-win for just one committee or another. I think the Republic of Estonia will certainly win this. If the Defence Forces intelligence gets more tools to do its job, it can do its job better. What's the military intelligence for anyway? This is one very important component of the Defence Forces' pre-warning system. The state must, at the earliest possible stage, have information on possible threats to it. Our foreign intelligence and military intelligence are, in a sense, complementary to each other; they are also in the realm of one ministry. Consequently, I think that it is indeed extremely necessary for the country to make this cooperation even better and to gain momentum.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U210	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Raivo Time! The bill also mentions conspiracy techniques, which I understand include eavesdropping people. Who is this person, or this facility, who will then give military intelligence the right to do so? Or can it be decided by every intelligence officer in the Defence Forces?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U212	Thank you for your question. It is certainly not meant that every official of the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre can decide what he will do today: who will be eavesdropped, who will be discreetly monitored or something like that. In fact, a measure such as eavesdropping is not foreseen here. There is a list of methods of conspiracy that can be used. In particular, searches into certain national and public registers can be made secretly, so that the individual does not know. Even if a person makes an inquiry using the system, who has asked about him or her, he or she will not receive a reply. Similarly, there is no difference between the other security agencies, the Defence Police Department and foreign intelligence. It is also possible to pretend to be a shadow person, legal persons, legal structures, etc. This is a whole list. But it still goes through the relevant permit procedure. The most serious violation of the fundamental rights of individuals is, indeed, hidden surveillance. And we had the sharpest debate on the possibility of discreet surveillance. There was also a serious discussion between the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre, the Defence Forces and also the Defence Police Department. In particular, the Defence Police saw the danger that interests might cross: the two institutions could, figuratively speaking, work on the same person. We know it's the anti-intelligence activities of the Defence Forces that have been put in place by law. But in this case, we are not talking to the Intelligence Centre about counter-intelligence by the Defence Forces, we are talking about the wider implementation of internal control measures. In order to prevent this so-called skis from being crucified, the draft provides that the Defence Police Department must be informed of this three days before, for example, the start of discreet surveillance. This is precisely in order to rule out a possible labour conflict between the two authorities. Similarly, the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Minister of Defence must also be informed so that political control is maintained. It is also important that discreet surveillance can still be carried out against those with whom a contract of some kind has already been concluded. Whether it's a secret cooperation agreement or an employment contract. And in that case, the person will be informed. Similarly, security checks are carried out: a person who undergoes a security check agrees that he or she agrees that he or she is subject to certain acts that violate fundamental rights. At most, it's covert surveillance. We're not talking about eavesdropping, we're not talking about listening at the location, we're not talking about monitoring the use of other electronic means of communication, like the Internet or anything else. It's very limited. Compared to the Police and Border Guard Act, the Internal Control Department of the Police and Border Guard Board has a wider range of options. They really have the right to be eavesdropping. Of course, you have to ask the court's permission to do so, but if the court considers it necessary, they can do so. But at the Defence Forces Intelligence Center, we did not consider it possible to implement such measures at least initially, and we limited ourselves to a maximum of covert surveillance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U213	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The birth story of this bill is long, actually lasting several years. It is Parliament's task, among other things, to ensure that people feel confident that there really is no unnecessary pursuit, especially not for people who are not involved. This draft has certainly improved in its course of procedure, both in cooperation with the authorities and in this House after the exchange of ideas. But for me, there is still a place that needs to be broken up. It relates to the question of Enn Mere. Namely, if the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre or Defence Forces creates a temporary security area or a temporary security area, there are no restrictions. I think this is an issue that should be discussed between the first and second readings, also with regard to people who are not involved in discreet surveillance. What's your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U215	Thank you, Hanno! I would also like to thank you for your intense thinking and making a number of good proposals in the course of the Commission's proceedings, which have also been introduced and thus improved the quality of the draft law. Of course, today we're going to read it for the first time. After all, parliamentary proceedings begin today. The Defensive Commission is the National Defence Commission, which discusses all the danger points and corners that should be grounded. This can be done between two readings. I hope that the National Defence Committee will be working intensively on this, involving, where appropriate, the relevant authorities and institutions. So anything's possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U216	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U217	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, the chairman of the special committee! First of all, the great recognition for a very good presentation reported very interestingly! I hope my question doesn't concern state secrets in any way, so maybe you can answer. How many people are there who now have such a right? I understand that the institution gets this right, the organization, the institution, the institution, but what does it mean in terms of number? How many more of these people are coming? I believe that there are no people in this Chamber who are opposed to the fact that the Estonian state is more protected, secure and that these organisations have all the tools to carry out this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U218	We did not deal with the number of these persons when we dealt with the draft law. I'm afraid it's even a state secret, but it's a member of the Defence Forces Intelligence Center. In fact, there is one provision in this bill that allows people to be recruited at the intelligence centre without going through a competition. The aim is precisely to hide the identity of the persons working at the intelligence centre, after all, it is an intelligence unit. It is not a security authority, but since it is a member of the Defence Forces, the objectives and methods of his work are very much the same as those of the security authorities. And after all, every year, the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic prepares a document, which is called it, now it has changed, in the old days it was a preference plan for information procurement, now it is a little longer, I do not remember exactly that name. But basically, the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic defines the priorities for the activities of the security authorities, as well as those of the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U219	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U220	I'm going to offer you another topic for thought and discussion in the big hall. This draft gives the Defence Forces, more specifically the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre, the right to carry out intelligence activities on missions outside Estonia. My question to you is, what jurisdiction will apply when scouts are caught in the act?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U221	I assume that the jurisdiction concerned is enshrined in the laws of other countries. Just as the Estonian law states what happens if a scout of a hostile state is caught on our territory. There are criminal proceedings, court proceedings, which are expected to end in prison. When it comes to so-called "structured intelligence officers," it is very often the mutual exchange of persons between countries so that they can come to their homeland and remain free. That's what you've been dealing with very closely yourself, Hanno, and you know how jurisdiction works. There's nothing different here. Defence intelligence still has the possibility to counter-intelligence on a foreign mission. These options have been discussed several times. The same possibility of counterintelligence in defence of my own units, I don't even remember the exact year, but I think it was either in 2013 or 2014, when the Defence Forces Intelligence Center got that right. Maybe the Defence Forces can tell you in concrete terms, but that's where it's going to stay.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U222	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U223	Thank you very much, Mr Chairman, for the floor. I just have a brief comment. The military missions that have taken place so far have been previously coordinated with the country of the mission. There are also questions about how intelligence is being conducted there. We have no reason to expect dangerous situations in this sense in the missions where the Defence Forces have been and are now in existence. What the future holds, I don't know. Point two: I want to expand some of the space we are talking about, and let you know that the powers and intelligence activities of the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre are part of NATO's pre-warning system. Just as NATO contributes to the early warning system, so do our Defence Police and Foreign Intelligence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U224	Yeah, but I'm reminding you, it's a question round. I understand, however, that perhaps there was a certain question here for the waitress. Okay, no more questions. Thank you, Chairman of the Commission. Please speak today to Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission, who is celebrating his birthday.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U225	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, we are currently trying to eliminate the intelligence scandal that was sucked out of our hands in 2006 by the Ministry of Defence, which completely lost all counterintelligence in the Defence Forces and the Defence League, even the background check went under the command of the Special Branch. Now we see its negative results: 'Thanks' we have spies and scouts, who the Defence Forces are not capable of discovering themselves, but which must be dealt with by the kapo. But to the point! Prior to the initiation of the draft, the National Defence Committee discussed the various drafts of the draft at two joint meetings with the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior also participated in these discussions. Before presenting the draft at first reading, the National Defence Commission discussed the draft once again with the initiator, Raivo Aeg, Chairman of the Special Committee on Security Authorities Supervision. He presented to us at the meeting on 19 December. A little bit more about the bill. It extends the rights of the Defence Forces to check the background of persons wishing to enter the service in order to verify their suitability to serve in the Defence Forces or to cooperate with the Defence Forces. According to the draft, to obtain the information needed for background checks, the Defence Forces can carry out operations from risk control to a wider extent and use the conspiracy techniques that were discussed here to ensure that the information is collected undercover. I would like to stress once again that the background check carried out by the Defence Forces is not a security check. The latter is still under the authority of the Defence Police Department. The draft also foresees as a new task that information must be collected and processed in the execution of military intelligence in order to ensure the protection of the Defence Forces' security area and to prevent potential threats. I would remind you that, pursuant to § 53 of the Order of the Defence Forces Act, the security area is the territory in the custody of the Defence Forces and it has campuses, headquarters buildings, rear and training centres, machinery parks, weapons and other warehouses, shooting lines, as well as Defence Forces ships, aircraft, vehicles and the territory defined by the Commander of the Defence Forces or his authorised commander as a temporary security area. Fields of study shall be considered, in particular, when they are undergoing exercises or exercises. These changes are necessary to ensure that the Defence Forces are able to detect and respond adequately in a timely manner in the event of incidents directly affecting the security area. The Board of the Riigikogu appointed the National Defence Committee as the leading committee. Due to the recommendation given by the Riigikogu Board on 18 December 2018 to the National Defence Committee to seek the opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. We have not received an answer, but we hope to have it before the deadline for amendments to the draft. At its meeting on 19 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be included on the agenda of today's sitting for the first reading and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus that the deadline for submitting the draft amendments could be set at 10 working days, i.e. the deadline would be 30 January at 5.15 p.m. according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U226	Thank you, dear Ants Laaneots. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Hanno Pevkur, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U227	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! My message from this remote is primarily to the National Defence Committee, as the procedure for the initiator of this draft, the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, seems to have ended today. We will no longer be able to contribute more, and that means that the National Defence Committee will assume this task. The purpose of this bill is very noble. Those people who must be responsible for Estonia's security must have the necessary tools to do this work. Our task in this Chamber is indeed to ensure that every person, thanks to this law, can have confidence that, yes, the necessary tools will be given to guarantee Estonia's security, but the freedoms and rights of all people will be protected. In this sense, I am very pleased that, throughout the preparation of this draft, we had sufficient willingness to listen to both experts and to think along, so that the text of the draft could be good. Some small details still need to be clarified between the first reading and the second reading. In particular, I would like to draw attention to a few points. First of all, the same subject that sounded in both Raivo's and Antsu's presentations: the temporary security area. You see, with the temporary security area, it is true that, indeed, when we talk about the security of the Defence Forces, there are no questions. This is, as a rule, a military unit or a military campus, in so-called plain language, where both this territory and the nearest perimeter need to be properly protected and, if necessary, taken action to do so. A temporary area of security can, in principle, be formed anywhere at any time. Of course, it will require a decision by the Commander of the Defence Forces or his authorized person, but we must provide assurance that both the formation of the temporary security area and the subsequent actions carried out there will be clearly sanctioned and pre-checked. Basically, as has been mentioned here, it should not occur that the same old good one, or whether it was now a good one, the reconnaissance scandal problem, that someone somewhere over his head is slightly exceeding his powers. For example, let us imagine that a temporary security area is being created around the Riigikogu building for the purpose of the exercise, which would mean that the activities of all the members of the Riigikogu can be monitored secretly. Purely theoretically, it's possible. I'm not going to extend it to any other city or area. Helmen asked a question before. Basically, if, for example, a temporary security area of three kilometres is introduced around the department building of the Defence League in Viljandi, it is possible to control most people in Viljandi in such a way that no trace is left behind. So we must, in fact, give the people of Viljandi, as well as everyone else, the assurance that the Commander of the Defence Forces and all the people who are authorized by him will clearly understand what this mandate means. Everyone needs to understand that Parliament will also have supervisory powers. The fact that we wrote in the draft of supervision, or civil control, was very sensible and necessary. Of course, future parliamentary formations will have to be strictly controlled, and no one has crossed the line anywhere. The second issue is the regulation of intelligence activities abroad. It's the kind of delicate ice all the countries are wearing on it. British law, for example, states that the Minister's mandate allows offences to be committed abroad within certain limits. I'm not going to name the offences that can be committed here. So vigour and determination to the National Defence Committee in the process of handling this draft! It is certainly worth listening not only to experts in their field, but also to Members of Parliament. In this Chamber, we could show such a sober mind that the fundamental rights of people are guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-16_U228	Thank you, Hanno Pevkur! There doesn't seem to be any more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 783. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline of 30 January at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of draft amendments. We've been through today's agenda. Thank you and have a nice Wednesday night, everyone. Closure of the sitting at 5.49 p.m.
