ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a very good start to the new working week. We will begin the Monday session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U2	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Following the resignation of the member of the Riigikogu, Kadri Simson, Marko Šorin joined the Riigikogu on 13 September. Next, we will hear his oath. Please, Marko Šorin!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U4	Next, everyone will have a happy opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please! The first to register is Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and several other members of the Riigikogu, I will refer the inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa. Sixteen delegates from both the Reform Party and the Social Democratic Party have joined this inquiry. The point is that last week the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure answered questions about infrastructure investments in the Riigikogu's briefing. In answer to the question about the design of the following four-line sections of the Tartu highway, the Minister informed us that 3 million euros will be available for the purchase and design of land in the state budget next year. This information was already overturned the next day by the Director General of the Road Administration. It informed the public that the Public Road Administration did indeed request EUR 5 million from the budget for the design, planning and purchase of three four-line roads, and in this way every following year, a total of EUR 35 million, which was rejected by the Government. The Director-General of the Road Administration considered it possible that this EUR 3 million, which the Minister meant by design money, might have been the overall design money, which is in the road plan and was not intended for four-way roads. That is why we are asking the Minister, which has given rise to the rejection of the cost of planning and designing four-way roads. We are asking whether it is ready to re-examine this request from the Road Administration when preparing the budget plan for next year. There are a total of seven questions about the design, planning and financing of four-line roads. We expect a thorough response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U6	Now I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U7	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Citizens' Initiative. The Government of the Republic is represented by Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft Act on the ratification of the 2014 and 2016 amendments to the Maritime Labour Code of the International Labour Organisation. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U8	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. The Bureau will decide on their future procedure in accordance with our Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Next thing we know, we're gonna do a presence check. I'm asking all ambassadors to sign up! 93 members of the Riigikogu are present and no 8. The next item is the adoption of the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the second working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 91 delegates in favour, no one opposed and one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U9	Let's go to today's 16th of September agenda. Answers to inquiries are on the agenda. Inquiry submitted on 13 May 2019 by Riigikogu members Kalle Laaneti, Heiki Kranich, Vilja Toomasti, Urmas Kruuse, Hele Everaus, Madis Milling, Heidy Purga, Yoko Alenderi, Andres Suti, Taavi Rõivas, Hanno Pevkuri, Kaja Kallas, Toomas Kivimägi, Urve Tiidus, Jüri Jaanson, Signe Kivi, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Ants Laaneotsa, Andrus Seed, Johannes Kerdi and Annely Akkermanni. Reply to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. On behalf of the heirs, please introduce Kalle Laanet.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U10	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! Yes, this inquiry was submitted a long time ago, on 13 May including 21 members of the Riigikogu. In particular, it was driven by the great promise that from 1 June 2019 Kuressaare will start to fly a larger plane that meets the requirements and needs that have arisen between Tallinn and Tallinn. I'm not going to read that introduction for a very long time. We asked the Prime Minister five questions at the time. I was also able to complain a little about the fact that June 1 had not arrived and how I, along with my colleagues, was able to prematurely ask the questions that are written here. But as has often happened, life continues to be the way experience speaks for itself. The first question we had: "Who is responsible for making empty promises to the islanders? 'The second question was: 'Is anyone responsible for failing to comply with another promise in MKM? " The third question was: " Is anyone in charge of the Road Administration that procurement cannot be organised correctly? The fourth question: " How do you do what you promise to do to make sure that there is a good air link between the big islands with a larger plane? The last, fifth question was this: " What activities is the government going to take to ensure that procurements are properly drawn up and organised in a way that is not easy to challenge? " Such an inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U11	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U12	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honorable guests! Good heirs! I am honoured and extremely pleased that the first questioning of the composition of the XIV Riigikogu deals with such an important regional policy issue as the connection with the great islands. Today, but certainly also the previous government, has given a very clear priority to improving ferry and air connections between islands and the continent. The State's budget strategy for public transport in 2019 has foreseen a total of EUR 394 million, including EUR 22.7 million for air transport, allowing two separate aircraft to be brought on the Kärdla and Kuressaare routes. A total of EUR 437 million of public transport support is envisaged in the National Budget Strategy 2020 It will maintain ferry traffic between the islands and the continent at the level necessary to meet today's demand, and funding will also ensure the continuation of free public transport. At the moment, we are making efforts to bring another ferry to the Kuivastu-Virtsu connection and to make every effort not to rent it every summer, as it has been, but to make it more economical for the state budget and the state as a whole. Air connections are set at EUR 5,53 million for 2019, including Ruhnu routes. For the following periods, EUR 5.73 million per year is planned in the country's budget strategy. This must ensure that the air link between Saaremaa and the mainland is improved due to the introduction of a larger aircraft on the Kuressaare route. Finally, I would like to say that I have met several times both in previous years and this year in county visits with the local government leaders and entrepreneurs of Saaremaa. Last night, Sunday day, for example. Their message has been unambiguous: the connection between Saaremaa and the mainland is and will be better than ever. As confirmed by the recent audit by the National Audit Office of the ferry connections between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, there are almost the same number of trips a year between the mainland and Muhumaa and Hiiumaa as during the previous carrier, but more passengers and vehicles are carried over and ticket revenues have increased. To the first and second questions, if the honourable Riigikogu permits, I will answer together. The first question: "Who is responsible for making empty promises to the islanders? 'The second question: 'Is anyone responsible for failing to comply with another promise in MKM? ' So, let's go back in time. In December 2017, the organisation of air connections and the bringing of two aircraft on the route were discussed at the Cabinet meeting of the Government of the Republic of Estonia. It was decided to support the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure at the time that separate aircraft would be ordered for different routes to be connected to the major islands. As the amendment to the Public Transport Act entered into force on 1 January 2018, the tasks of the public service contracts for air traffic were transferred from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to the Public Road Administration. Based on the decision of the Government Office, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with the Road Administration, the Aviation Administration and the Municipality of Hiiumaa and Saaremaa, worked out the procurement conditions in the first quarter of 2018. I would like to emphasise here in particular what I think is very important: as far as I know, for the first time a representative of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa entrepreneurs and the local community was involved in such a committee. It was very important to hear the message of an on-site representative on improving the connection. Let it be said in advance that the new procurement has also remained so that the representative of the local community, entrepreneurs, council will be involved from the very beginning in the case of the Kuressaare route. It was the Saaremaa municipality that stood strongly for the purchase conditions of the 40-seater aircraft to be tendered for the Tallinn-Kuressaare-Tallinn route. The public procurement organised by the Public Road Administration was challenged in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Public Procurement Act. On 15 April 2019 the Regional Jet OÜ, a subsidiary of Nordica and certified as an airline, submitted an appeal which was granted. The appeal committee considered that, according to the Public Procurement Act, Regional Jet OÜ had a fundamental right to rely on the funds of the parent company Nordic Aviation Group for the requirement of equity positivity. Thus, the decision of the Estonian Road Administration regarding the non-qualification of Regional Jet OÜ in the case of the Tallinn-Kuressaare-Tallinn route was contrary to the requirements of the Public Procurement Act and repealed. In order to avoid interruption of the line authorisation from 1 June including, the Public Road Administration considered hierarchical measures to avoid the risk of service disruption as provided for in the Public Transport Act and submitted a proposal to extend the contract, it was very important that this connection should not be interrupted by the current carrier of Tallinn. The agreement extended the contract until a new carrier was found, but for no more than two years. This ensured that the provision of services on the route would not be interrupted. We know that it was a beautiful summer, so many people want to go to Saaremaa because of the beautiful nature and culture there, because of the business and economic environment there, and also because of the very important cultural events that took place there this summer. So the air connection worked nicely in that volume. In May 2019 the Road Administration and Regional Jet OÜ entered into a compromise agreement to close the dispute, but the day later the Ministry of Finance initiated a supervisory procedure over the procurement of the Tallinn-Kuressaare-Tallinn route. On 23 May 2019, the Public Road Administration issued a new decision on the procurement and declared Regional Jet OÜ's tender successful. However, at the beginning of June, the Ministry of Finance issued a precept in the framework of the supervisory procedure to cancel the procurement of the part of the Kuressaare route, which was also completed by the Public Road Administration on 7 June. You see how many dates there are in this virvard, but of course it was important to find a solution first. And, look, the positive news about finding a solution is today to tell the honourable Riigikogu. The Road Administration has prepared a new procurement for the new period for the founding of a carrier on the Tallinn-Tallinn route. As far as I know, the public procurement was announced as of Friday and should be public and online today. So all interested parties have to come and offer their services. Now the third and fourth questions. If you will allow me, I will answer the third question first: 'Is anyone in charge of the Road Administration responsible that procurement cannot be organised correctly? " I will answer the fourth question with it: " How, with what actions, do you fulfill your promise that you will do everything in your power to ensure that good air traffic between the islands will operate on a larger plane? " The challenge of this procurement, which concerned reliance on the capital of another company, was legally very nuanced and complex. The case law is not uniform in similar procedures. In the future, the experience gained under this procedure will certainly be taken into account in the preparation of the terms and conditions for similar procurements. The Public Road Administration has acknowledged that there was an important expectation in the previous procurement that airlines would show a greater interest in the procurement and thus be able to generate more competition, were not fulfilled, only two companies submitted a bid. In order to obtain more offers from different companies, the Public Road Administration has planned to change the evaluation criteria in the new procurement and to rely mainly on the cost of the trip. In the previous tender, tenders were assessed on the basis of the age of the aircraft and the cost of one trip. In fact, age does not clearly indicate the quality of the plane. Now a very important observation: it is important that the aircraft is in technical order and that all necessary audits have been carried out. Secondly, the assessment criteria do not specify the base aircraft and the replacement aircraft, but the aircraft must be technically sound and have all the necessary certificates. It is expected that this requirement prevented several companies from participating in the offer, as their planes fly all their planes on all routes. It is important that the size of the aircraft remains the same in the new procurement as the wishes of the Municipality and the Council of Saaremaa, and this continues to be a minimum of 40 seats. While this requirement has been challenged, the appeal committee has rejected these arguments. Question 5: "What kind of activities does the government intend to take (sorry, I corrected the word, it said 'to be taken') so that the procurements would be properly drawn up and organised in a way that would not be easy to challenge? ' Each government body must organise procurement in accordance with the requirements laid down in the Public Procurement Act, but it must be acknowledged that it is common practice to challenge public procurement. For example, according to publicly available statistics of the appeal committee, in 2017 a total of 211 appeals were submitted to all contracting authorities, 130 of which were examined and 81 were dismissed, including in ten cases partially dismissed. As regards the appeal of the procurement procedure, it must be pointed out that, on the basis of its economic interest, tenderers have the opportunity to challenge any stage of the procurement procedure. At the same time, the statistics do not support the legality and justification of these disputes. Honourable heirs, I thank you once again for your thorough and very serious questioning. I have given the answers to these five questions, and I am, of course, ready to answer the questions that you are clarifying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U13	Thank you. Now all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask the Prime Minister a question within one minute. First Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U14	Thank you. Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your answers. I'm going to be a little more specific. At least, as far as I know, the ferry line between Muhumaa and Hiiumaa is not yet open. That was point one. Point two. You mentioned that the Preparatory Commission would involve economic operators and members of the local council. Yes, on the side of Saaremaa, an entrepreneur and a council member are involved in one person, it is absolutely right and welcome. But I have to admit, your answers were very thorough, but I didn't get an answer to whether anyone was responsible. Since 2015, Saaremaa's entrepreneurs and community have been addressing both the public and the government authorities directly so that this larger plane would come. Now it's 2019, which is about to end. My question, however, is anyone responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U15	Thank you. I thank you, of course, for this clarification on the connection between Muhumaa and Hiiumaa. That's definitely not what I meant. I did not simply say that I think it is important to do everything to listen to the local community and listen to the wishes of this community just before making a procurement. Like I said, it's the first time I've seen it. I'm not that well-informed, of course. You're right, there should be a member of the Saaremaa Vallavolikogu. Isn't he even your penguin? So I'm sure you can specify that with him if you're on the council and you're doing the council's job. I think it could be good practice in the future, that we are negotiating not only in the pre-process, but in the whole process, that the representative of the local community, in a good way, would still be on top of this. Now, the question is who's responsible. You also pointed out in your question that it was already wanted in 2015, now it is 2019, it is autumn. As much as you don't want to, but frankly, I don't like throwing stones in the 2015 government or then Prime Minister's cabbage yard. What's that gonna do? This isn't how we're gonna get air traffic past this minimum 40-seater. We still have to look to the solutions in a positive way. If everything goes as expected, as far as I know, there should be a new plane on the line at the beginning of April next year. There's a whole other half in the matter of responsibility. Estonia is a rule of law and, as I have said, the foundations of the rule of law must not be broken; they must be kept. After all, judicial proceedings are always possible, appeal proceedings, appeal proceedings are always possible if they are to be brought, they must remain. As I said, I am certainly not going to blackmail the previous government for what happened in 2015. We must find the solution, the best solution for the islanders, people living in Abrukal, people in Vilsandi, Muhumaa, so that people can travel from Kuressaare to Tallinn if they want, by plane, twice from Monday to Friday, Kuressaare to Tallinn and twice in Tallinn to Kuressaare and also on Saturday and Sunday, but then once.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U16	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The budget for next year is now starting to take on a clearer line. You also mentioned in your replies that this year the budget for routes between islands and the continent is set at EUR 5.53 million and the next year is estimated at 5.73 million. This is more than EUR 200000 in total for traffic between all islands and the continent, as you said, including Ruhnu, including Hiiumaa. Do you think that this EUR 200000 extra money will cover the needs, or is it also affected by the tight budgetary situation? If you will allow me, I will ask you another question with a future dimension. Vesterbacka promises to complete the tunnel by 2024, which means an explosive increase in passengers between Finland and Estonia. It is also likely to affect air traffic in Saaremaa. Can you comment here? By then, of course, the procurement you have just begun will be over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U18	Thank you very much for your questions. We are not psychic, so we know exactly what the outcome of the procurement is in the real procurement situation: whether it is 200000, 170000 or 200000+. But the reference should still be given. It is clear that today's government has made it clear that if we want a better service, and that is what we want, there must be a minimum of 40-digit aircraft. I will be honest with you that this is the way I wanted to say it on the Kärdla-Tallinna line, that demand is satisfied with this 19-seater plane (you know very well that this 19-seater plane is flying between Tallinn and Kuressaare), it does not get very far. It's actually already exhausted its capacity, especially when we think about the peak season. Saaremaa's business and islanders wishing to come to Tallinn must be helped here. So I see no reason why we should remain at the same level in quality. We need to take a step forward. Of course, if we want better quality, it costs more. Is there enough of EUR 200000? That's the answer to the call, we'll know when this call is over. Now this aspect of the tunnel. I find it very interesting and very right that we, especially here in the Riigikogu, also look behind the horizon, behind the horizon and think about it. In the meantime, I want to say that I was in Saaremaa on Sunday. Mrs. Tiidus, you were largely the reason why, before going to the very interesting meetings of Kuressaare, I wanted to go to Pöide Castle and the church. And I was thinking about you. You've always wanted this church fixed again, you've been betting on it. So I wanted to thank you for that! I was thinking about your initiative when I was at the Pöide Church. But we come back to this vision, to this tunnel between Tallinn and Helsinki or Helsinki and Tallinn. I do not know when Mr Vesterbacka wants to open it, whether, as far as I know before 30 May 2024, this period should end by 30 May 2024 or after today's procurement. The private sector's interest in it and coming along with such a very interesting solution, where the effect of two cities would really be, wouldn't it, the effect of Tallinn?Helsing would be great. So I think that the initiative of the private sector must be supported in any case. I don't know if the point of your little crutsky question was that this tunnel could go westwards from Tallinn or not, and you thought, however, that if people reached Ülemiste or where exactly this tunnel ended, they would go nicely, for example, on a tram to the airport and can travel to Saaremaa. You know, it's good to be in the private sector, but this project has to be run by the ministries of two countries, they still have to be a and o. Is this tunnel gonna be ready in 2024? I really don't know how to tell you that. There is no way that we can leap over environmental impact assessments, cost-benefit analyses, how much it costs our taxpayers and Finnish taxpayers, what are the chances of getting investments and financing from outside. After all, there is also the question of the artificial islands, which also changes the natural order. So you have to take this very seriously. Could this theoretically give a positive boost to the tourist flow? Of course you could, of course! Saaremaa is a beautiful place of nature, and it is certainly more desirable to go there. There are very nice cultural events. I think so. Of course, we had a conversation yesterday with some islanders in Kuressaare. I think we also need to think that Saaremaa should not become a luxury place where it is very expensive for Estonian people to go. There is talk among the people, whether to go to Saaremaa or somewhere in the south, that the price level is already the same. I don't think that's the way it is. But in any case, we should do everything we can to encourage tourism and promote the development of the economic environment, the investment environment. The main thing is to ensure that people would like to live in Saaremaa so that they can work there and go to school. It's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U19	Thank you. Next is the question of Vilja Toomas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U20	Thank you. Mr. George Ratas! It was kind of strange for me to listen to the reasons why the procurement went wrong. One of the reasons for this was that flying requires healthy and technically sound aircraft, and those airlines, like them, do not have much. But if the airline has been granted a license to fly and has also received a line pass, then it is elementary that there are also aircraft that are technically in order and can fly. It's kind of strange to hear that they're part of the procurement. I may be able to help you answer the question of who is responsible. If the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Public Road Administration were to make proper procurement terms pursuant to the Public Procurement Act, and this would not be the condition for technically sound aircraft, then perhaps these procurements would not fail either. What's your comment? Is it not, in your view, that the procurement conditions have not been properly developed, just as the Health Insurance Fund's procurement procedures did?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U21	Thank you. As I said, we certainly can't reverse or take any step in quality. I do not know if it is elementary, in any case it must be mentioned in the criteria. As I said in my reply, one of the criteria was the main aircraft. It has now been changed in this sense that it does not have to be the same aircraft in particular, but that this company may have different aircraft. But really, of course, there is no compromise on the whole safety and technology side. So, yes, I also think it's perfectly understandable on the one hand. But the fact that the aircraft is in any case in technical order is a priority. That's another thing. You asked me why the procurement was going like this, didn't you know it was going to happen? There's been another change. I said that now the price component is the main component, the price component and the age component. It is said that in air traffic, age is not the most decisive, but technical order is the most decisive. You're asking who's responsible again. Well, how are you after it now, why did this happen in 2015? It was not only in 2015 that these decisions were made. Perhaps today's wisdom could have made different decisions, but we never see the future ahead. Let's hope we've gotten smarter now. On the one hand, the contracting authority has also changed; it is no longer MKM, but it is the Road Administration, which then takes account of these failures. What is important, however, is that we make every effort to ensure that, for the top season of the following year, we can have better air services and better ferry connections in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U22	Thank you. Anney Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you very much for the very poetic praise of the life of Saaremaa and the beauty of nature! However, I have a completely different question. In fact, representatives of small island communities met in Manija about a month ago. A member of the government, Jaak Aab, took part in this meeting. While in Estonia it is generally believed that the Road Administration should allow and organise contact with islands so that islanders can get a floating road to the mainland, small island communities are excluded from attention. Small boats go, and the islanders themselves have small boats to go to the mainland. But it is believed that the natural communities of islands should be maintained by animals. With the KIC projects, dozens of animals have been taken to the smaller islands, which have grown into a hundred-headed herds, but can no longer be reached. Could the government, together with the Road Administration, solve the transport problems of small island communities and their animals? We're still talking about these tons of bulls.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U24	Thank you, good questioner. First of all, the first part of the question. I hope Manija Mann will do a good job and make a connection between Manija and the Munalaiu. I thought you were dealing with a very important subject. This is important, really, precisely the transport of live animals. But I'm gonna add more hay here, because the grass may be short-lived in the smaller islands in certain weather conditions or during the summer period. I really am not so specifically prepared for this question, but I am trying to answer. Take Osmussaar, for example. People there say that there is the same problem, there is no such decent barge or vessel to transport live animals from the island to the mainland. The same question is the Small Pakri, and that is also the basis that is being sought. How much would that cost? I remember last year I was told that the order of magnitude was a quarter of a million, 250,000 euros. This year, I've heard the calculations say 125,000 or 135,000. But in answer to your question as to whether the state could come here in any way to help or to help finance, I say that I think that this issue should be resolved. I really think it would. Then the question is, whose balance sheet is it? It is unlikely that the State will keep this barge or base on its balance sheet, but it should then remain on the balance sheet of one municipality and other municipalities would be able to use it, it is not needed every day. So a serious issue, for the communities of these islands, a very serious issue, a vital one. I started thinking about Mr. Laanet's correction that there was no ferry connection between Muhu and Hiiumaa. I went over that sentence for a second. The sentence was that ferry ships travel between the mainland and Muhu and Hiiumaa. I guess it was meant to be between the mainland and Muhu County and between the mainland and Hiiumaa. But yes, Annely Akkermann, I admit this is an important subject. I can't tell you where this funding would come from right now, but I think it should go on. This would help the small islands to cope better with everyday life. Once again, I know that there have been problems taking hay to Osmussaar, for example, because it was the case that there was no hay coming from Osmussar during the haywork. Then very 'interesting' measures were used, let's say figuratively, but what we were talking about really would help solve this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U25	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. The floor can be spoken for 5 + 3 minutes and for 2 minutes; Mr Kalle Laane, who is already on his way and then the other members of the Riigikogu who wish to express their views, and also the representatives of the political groups and committees, can take the floor. Thank you. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U26	Good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! Colleagues! I think it is very positive that our Prime Minister is always positive, oriented towards positivity, results. I'm sure it'll carry on. But unfortunately it is that people who live outside Tallinn want not only to be part of this positivity, but also real results, but it will take more than five years for the process, small air procurement or solving the concerns of people in one region. Although, yes, the Prime Minister indicated that the previous government did not do so. Yeah, the old government got the first memos. I went over the Internet again this morning to check what kind of messages someone was sending. 2017 Mr. Prime Minister said that Saaremaa will certainly get a bigger plane, and already on 21 December 2017 the government supported the introduction of a bigger plane on the Saaremaa route. But unfortunately, you can't see it. When the government says that all we need is money for a PPP project to build a four-line road from Tallinn to Tartu, these things do not work at all. We don't have the ability to order projects or conduct procurements. Let's talk about things the way they really are. Let's see how things can be done better. Indeed, the Prime Minister pointed out very positively that a local person, entrepreneur and vice-chairman of the Saaremaa Vallavolikogu, who has certainly done a good job there, were also involved in the preparation process. But another example is the fact that there was a bill tabled twice to change the law on public transport so that local authorities would be partners at the time they were partners of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to get the timetables in place. Then they said, "What are you kidding me?" You're not capable of it. That's the situation. Another example is what happened this summer: the decision was taken, the replacement ship was ordered beautifully, almost half a million euros was paid for, but it did not make any trips. All things can be done better, everything can be discussed, shouldn't just be said, especially on the basis of my previous experience, it is the Ministry and the Road Administration that you know nothing, you don't know what you're talking about, we know what you're talking about here! In my opinion, this attitude does not take us any further, regardless of whether you are in the government coalition or in the opposition. My experience is again that it doesn't really matter, because the smartest are somewhere else. If we could all think about what people expect of us in this Chamber and work every day to ensure that the services provided to the residents of Estonia get better, the connections get better, then we should not discuss in such a sad tone that it will be a year, it will be two, the next formation will be here, but what we want to achieve is that we cannot achieve. Let's do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U27	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U28	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! I am also an optimistic type, and I fully agree that cooperation with the community is needed to understand what these needs are on the ground. Inevitably, inter-island connections have been at the heart of this debate for decades, for regional business, for people's mobility, for tourism. Speaking to the locals, perhaps next year we will also arrive at six departures in both directions throughout the year in Hiiumaa. There are currently five departures in January, February and March. The giants themselves say that it restricts entrepreneurship, it would require at least six exits in both directions. But as an optimist, I want to share with you the results of the National Audit Office's audit. The National Audit Office audited the inter-island ferry connection, looked at the number and costs of passengers for the last several years and assessed whether this last call really gave the state some cost savings. Over the past 12 years, the number of vehicles and passengers has increased by 40%, with nearly one million vehicles and 2.3 million passengers last year. Indeed, support has also grown all the time. It also found in the media that if we look to the future, the support with which we support ferry traffic will continue to grow as wage costs increase and fuel costs increase. There will be no cost savings in the absolute value. However, I would point out that according to Väinamere Liini OÜ's offer, the annual grant would have been significantly higher for the State, by an average of 5.4 million euros per year, than the grant paid by the State under the current procurement. The ferry currently has almost the same number of journeys between the mainland and Muhu County and Hiiumaa, more passengers are being transported, more vehicles are being transported, and ticket revenues have increased. But what's relevant to us is that the contract ends on September 30, 2026. The terms of the agreement state that, at least four years before the end of the agreement, the State must formulate an opinion as to whether it wishes to buy out the ferry vessels at the end of the contract, and these funds must then also be planned in the country's budgetary strategy. So if we are talking about inter-island connections (hopefully by April we will find a solution for air traffic procurement and a 40-seater aircraft will be flying to Saaremaa), we should also think together about what will become of ferry connections in the future, how to ensure that, under the conditions of increasing passenger and vehicle numbers, this service can still satisfy demand, and what is the longer plan? If the period of the agreement that has brought savings to the state so far, compared with the agreement concluded with the previous contractor, is to end, what is the future plan for maintaining such a stable and high-quality service that is suited to the needs of businesses and people in the longer term between the islands and the continent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U29	Thank you. Looks like more... It is. I'm sorry! Urmas Kruuse, speaking from the floor? No. Please! Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U30	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Prime Minister! I remembered from your answers and from your debate that the important thing is that the plane is technically in order, and age is not important. I dare say a little bit about it, because technically well-established vehicles may also be a hundred years old, but I am not quite sure that this will satisfy the travel habits of the islanders and the people of the continent. There is plenty of experience that if the vehicle's age limits are moved on land or in the air, it does not bring satisfaction, but rather dissatisfaction. I still strongly suggest you consider how old the air machine is going to be between the island and the mainland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U31	Thank you. Would the Prime Minister like another word? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U32	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, I thank you once again for this constructive questioning. I think it is quite appropriate to say again here that the coalition and the opposition must cooperate, do the Estonian thing and try to make our people's living environment better. I take as a very serious observation what Mr Laane said when he presented this question that there must be a bigger plane and current air traffic will not satisfy the people of Saaremaa. I want to repeat this again: I promise I will do everything I can to make sure there is a really bigger plane. On the other hand, a very interesting nuance was what you also pointed out in your final speech. Of course, it's a problem for the state that we're renting this third ship for three or four months. It's quite expensive and it's very difficult, I think, and it's getting harder and harder on the market at all to find a ship that fits in. So I, too, take seriously the idea that the country could still have this third ship, which would also allow a better connection between Virtsu and Kuivastu. I myself believe that if we go to this, every effort should also be made to ensure that this ship can be moved operationally to the Grahuküla-Heltermaa line, for example, if once again the water level issue arises, for example, in the Rye Canal, i.e. its draught would be smaller. I take this constructive criticism of the opposition very seriously. What the Socialist Mrs Riina Sikkut said, I also take very seriously. In particular, he pointed out the strengthening of the connection in January, February and March that the current density is not suitable for the entrepreneurs in Hiiumaa, the association could be more dense and there could be more exits. I promise that I will take this constructive criticism seriously, too, and I will try to make every effort to ensure that in these months, in January, February and March too, we can offer a more stringent schedule than in the winter period of last year. I think this is also a good example of good cooperation between the opposition and the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U33	Thank you. I thank the heirs and also the Prime Minister for their answers and close the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U34	Today we also have a second inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Jüri Jaanson, Signe Kivi, Liina Kersna, Andrus Seed, Heiki Kranich, Vilja Toomast, Hele Everaus, Madis Milling, Heidy Purga, Yoko Alender, Andres Sutt, Maris Lauri, Kaja Kallas, Hanno Pevkur, Erkki Keldo, Jürgen Ligi, Urve Tiidus and Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. This concerns the availability of an Estonian sign language translation. The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps is responding. The procedure is the same. I ask you to speak first on behalf of Jüri Jaanson's prosecutors.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U35	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable sign-speaking guests on the balcony! This question is similar to what was already presented here last winter. We are now presenting it again with 19 colleagues, because the situation with regard to the training of sign language interpreters remains unclear. And actually, it's because it's a big, multifaceted problem. Why is that? First of all, for sign-speaking people, who have a size of 1500 to 2000 in Estonia, sign-language is the only output that allows communication with the normal society. Languages are learned by hearing, and deaf people cannot. This is also the main reason why the Estonian sign language is at the level of the Act equivalent to the national language, or Estonian written language. Estonian sign language is not a foreign language for us here; it is our own language. The activeisation of sign language people in society has increased. There is a much greater desire to be involved, including to acquire education. This means an increasing need for high-quality, advanced translation services. At present, however, the period of notice of the need for assistance for domestic activities is increasing. The normal livelihood and competitiveness of sign-speaking people in the labour market depend on the availability of translations. People with partial work capacity have more than two times the number of people with primary and primary education compared to so-called ordinary people or those on the regular labour market. In addition, the average wage on the labour market is only half of what a regular worker receives from the labour market. These are not commendable indicators. Training high-level sign language interpreters, although only for a small social group, is a matter of life for them, but it is also important for others. Ending this training pushes these people away from society. You could say we're perpetuating segregation with it. The country currently employs two or three times less translation than it really needs. And hence our questions to the Minister of Education and Science. We ask what solutions and opportunities the Ministry of Education and Research sees in a situation where, from the end of next year, the teaching of sign language interpreters at the university will be stopped as a major. And how will sign language children, young people, be able to obtain higher education? And so on, all the questions on the subject. I hope we get the answers and we can have a discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U36	Thank you. Responds to the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U37	Many thanks to the interviewers for raising the issue of the availability of a very important translation of Estonian sign language again! I have to tell you straight away that there are not many new and good answers. However, this issue has been discussed several times at the level of specialists at the Ministry, the University and the Ministerial Round Table. Now to the questions in order. The first question: 'What solutions and opportunities do the Ministry of Education and Research see for continuing teaching on the basis of higher education in the field of translation of Estonian sign language? " To begin with, it is important to remember why the Senate of the University of Tartu decided to close the study programme for sign language translators at the level of the study programme. The reason was that students had very little interest in the profession: 37 graduates have been present for 12 years. According to the representatives of the professional association, this curriculum no longer met the needs of society and the university lacked substantive competence to implement the curriculum. Tutorial was actually bought in. It was also reiterated that university professionals do not think that sign language interpreters can be sufficiently applied on the labour market because sign language translation services are expensive, disabled people cannot buy it, and local authorities have very limited opportunities to support sign language translation services. Since the teaching of sign language interpreters in graduate education failed, the university has offered to provide further training as a solution. As additional training, sign language is also taught to sign language teachers. Teaching sign language interpreters in higher education, as modules, as additional speciality, as further training, all of this requires a person with higher education, but it also means teaching on the basis of higher education. The situation has now changed and an administrative agreement with the university has agreed that the university will create the next one, 2020/2021. sign language module for the academic year and gives access to it to students who have chosen a special study programme. At present, only specialised pedagogues are taught sign language within three credits. If there are more participants in sign language, the circle of people who will continue to learn sign language will be expanded. The University has also undertaken to cooperate with the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Professional Association of Estonian Sign Language Translators in the administrative contract to find a solution for teaching sign language interpreters and studying sign language. At the same time, the university has signalled that if the state is unable to significantly increase the funding for higher education, the university will not be able to honour the new commitments made in the management contracts and will propose opening an administrative contract for negotiation. It cannot be accepted that the distance translation service provided by the Social Insurance Board increases the shortage of interpreters. Even when Skype is used to communicate with an interpreter, an interpreter is at the personal disposal of a person with hearing impairments. The aim should not be to have a high number of interpreters, to ensure that those in need have access to sign language translation services. A realistic picture of the situation of sign language translators was painted by a young person who graduated from the interpreter's field of study, who explained in the Postimees opinion article why most of the 37 students who graduated from his field of study do not work as sign language interpreters. As a reason, he points out the high time needed to get from one place of order to another, the unstable workload, the lack of social guarantees, working under a contract of command or employment, etc. In his view, the organisation of sign language translation, or service, would improve the situation more systematically at national level. In the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, we have agreed that the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, will analyse the accessibility of sign language translation and provide a sufficient number of sign language translation options and submit the proposals resulting from the analysis to the Government of the Republic. The second question is whether the Ministry of Education and Research proposed to continue funding the curriculum of translation of Estonian sign language at the university for the budgetary strategy of the state. The Ministry of Education and Research submitted an additional application for an increase in the operating grant for higher education institutions when examining the state's budget strategy. We applied for an additional 5% per year. The financing of higher education has been steadily declining in view of the change in the cost of living and, as this trend continues, the supply of higher education needs to be reduced compared to today. The lack of funding is the first to force small disciplines to be closed. It is difficult to reach agreements with the university on additional activities if the state does not have any additional funding for additional work. In an administrative agreement with the University, the State has committed itself to planning operating grants from the state budget on the basis of the consumer price index and the average salary of graduate workers. If the grant granted from the state budget does not meet these conditions, universities are entitled to start negotiations to reduce their responsibilities. We have also identified the cost of restoring sign language proficiency. The development of the research axis, together with the provision of high-quality level training, would require additional funding of around half a million euros over a six-year period for the training of people and the further coverage of fixed costs up to EUR 200000 to EUR 250000 per year. However, it has been stressed that additional funding will not solve the problem because the interest of students in the field of study is too low. 'How will sign language children and young people be able to learn in the national education system with the support of an Estonian sign language translation? ' Children using sign language can study at Tartu Hiie School and at Tallinn Helen School. The Helen School of Tallinn uses sign language as the main language of instruction for deaf and hearing. In addition to teachers, this school employs two sign - language translators who are in classes with teachers. Tartu Hiie School has about 20 employees with sign language foundations. They use sign language as an alternative means of communication rather than as a basic language of teaching in everyday schoolwork. Sign language translation services are not the only possible way to study in regular schools for children with hearing disabilities. According to EHIS, he studied at 2018/2019. 175 hearing-disabled students in general education in the academic year, about half of whom studied enhanced education and were excluded from the school of pupils in need, mostly in Tartu Hiie School and Tallinn Helen School, and half in some regular schools. A total of 71 students with hearing impairments are in school. Students with hearing impairments in regular school are more likely to be hearing impaired, have an implant or use a hearing aid and have learned to understand the speech to the extent necessary. Today, inner ear implants provide good opportunities for helping deaf children into the world of hearing. To participate in higher education, students with deep and severe hearing impairments can apply for a special needs student scholarship of 510 euros per month from the Ministry's budget to enable them to use sign language translation services. We made the application conditions considerably more flexible so that students could apply for the full quarterly allowance if necessary, as translation needs and costs vary from month to month. At the same time, the question remains what will happen after graduating from higher education. For example, the City of Tallinn supports the deaf sign language translation service 24 hours a year, i.e. two hours a month. Sign language translation service costs at least 40 euros per hour. It is practically impossible for a person to purchase the sign language translation service by means of the social security allowance of a disabled person. 'How will the right to education for children in sign language be guaranteed in the future? " Sign - language children already have an equal right to education with hearing children, and it will certainly continue. The need for sign language interpreters in general education schools is rather low and probably will not increase in the near future. There is a greater need for sign language training for teachers of hearing-impaired children. The four questions have been answered. I look forward to hearing further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U38	Thank you. Now all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask the minister a question. The first to register is Jüri Jaanson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U39	Thanks for the explanations. Unfortunately, however, I did not hear quite clear solutions, for example, so that sign language children, whether fewer or more, could also study in ordinary general education schools, precisely to achieve better competitiveness. But that's it. In short, what is needed to ensure that the training of sign language interpreters on the basis of higher education is sustainable? It is still that we also need to train lecturers, people with a doctorate, but it is already a very long-term process and requires quite a lot of investment. But it's necessary. And we need to know for a long time in advance how much sign language we really need in the future. And my question: has the state or the Ministry of Education launched or planned or commissioned a study on how much, for example, in ten years' time, do we really need these translations? How many of them need to be trained and allocated?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U40	Thank you. First of all, I note that currently 71 children with hearing disabilities go to school. This shows that medicine is so advanced, and so many deaf people, as well as ordinary parents, have decided to have surgery with the child. Some of these children need additional support, but many rather try to cope without any special support. I have no experience, for example, of telling a completely deaf child to study in a regular school without additional support. There are so few examples of blind people. The specifics are a little different, but it's going to require a lot of extra effort from the school and the teachers. All teachers who have been in contact with these children at a regular school have received additional training. So, in answer, yes, according to the law, we really have the right to decide on the choice of our children's schools, and it is basically possible to study in mainstream schools, but in reality this means a lot of additional requirements for the school in which this child is studying. As a community, these parents have made the choice that these children usually attend either the Tartu Hiie School or the Tallinn Helen School. Generally speaking, I dare say that I am sufficiently familiar with the quality of education in both schools, at least on the basis of analyses. There is no feeling that a child is not getting a good education from these schools. I dare say they can. Classes are very small, compact, teachers are very good, children can be taught on a very good level. Perhaps there are very specific substances that are offered more in some schools, I mean a slope or some special substance. Now from the University of Tartu. What has been going on there since our last debate? First of all, the hearing impaired and the deaf themselves were very active. They have pointed out numbers, parallels with the Nordic countries, and have generally quite well formulated their expectations. They have always presented the views of both students and lecturers in their discussions, both on their subjects and on higher education at all. In discussions or disputes with the University of Tartu on administrative contracts, sign language was on the table at least once a month. Except he's not the kind of thing that no party ever wanted to own. The university says that we teach as a module, as an additional training or as an additional module, so they are prepared to do so. Special pedagogy has this experience and there is interest, they are ready to work with us and additional support to complete further training. Proficiency in sign language is not a separate higher education; for example, it would be an opportunity to specialize in specialized education. The University of Tartu is ready for this. They have agreed that they will also implement this plan by 2020. So this is the moment when the Senate says that one part of their curriculum will end and a new opportunity will come in place. Is it possible to re-enter this field of science at doctoral and master's level? The University of Tartu has not said 'no', but they say it is very complicated because the question arises as to whether young people are motivated. If the average is 1.3 students per year who complete higher education, the number of students in doctoral studies can be very, very low. The university asked several times whether the social sector is saying that this training is needed and is willing to contribute and place an order there or not. We had a meeting with the Ministry of Social Affairs two weeks ago. The topic of Sign Language Translation Service was also discussed there. The Ministry says they should analyze it more slowly. Currently, the system is that the local government orders services and the state regulates these services. They would not particularly like to make exceptions to this, but they are ready to analyse the situation and it is now agreed that they will carry out such an analysis by April. Do we believe there will be a solution? Well, there's gonna be numbers, and there's gonna be an overview. But does anything change in the system? I don't know how to judge today, but the university is ready. What have we achieved during this debate? Thanks to the very active involvement of the target group, we have achieved that the university's decision to end is not final. New solutions have been proposed. It is the willingness of specialists to engage and listen and search for solutions, and the cost of meeting this additional need has been assessed by the University. These steps have been taken. During this academic year, can we also gain more confidence that, thanks to certain additional services, young people will have greater confidence that this service is needed more and that it will be financed more and that it will be of greater interest, we do not know yet, we have to wait a little longer. What I can say is that special scholarships are being used more and more in universities, though in the pilot phase. And there are more digital solutions. In certain situations and in certain places digital solutions are a very good alternative. They don't replace the translation service, but the interpreters are, let's say, more useful. They do not face - to - face with one person, but they can offer a little wider support to those in need. On the side of the ministry, we have a separate budget for digital solutions, and that is the money we have been prepared to allocate to further develop such solutions. This provides one way to alleviate the situation. I'm sure it doesn't cover all of this, but there's one possibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U41	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U42	Thank you. From your answers, a number of problems emerged that characterize this area. As you said, the funding of higher education, the lack of interest of students or young people in this field, and then you also highlighted the difficulty of accessing sign language translation services. It seems to me that this last one is the root of the problem. But I don't know if I'm right. Do you have any information on how much sign language we currently have and how many would be needed if this service were normally available? Clearly, two hours a month for a person with a special need to do things is a ridiculously small volume.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U43	My best knowledge is based on information provided by hearing impaired and deaf people themselves. They have analysed the Nordic model, which is a great example for us. And there are really volumes such that we could have ten graduates a year, then the service would be as accessible as in the Nordic countries if interest and funding were the same. We're not talking about some big specialty. We are talking about creating very good conditions and a rather small specialty. Then we wouldn't have one to two graduates anymore, but about ten graduates. Now, how long can this be? We must take into account that some services go digital. Perhaps in the very long term, therefore, so many graduates would not be needed. As we know, the development of all artificial intelligence also demonstrates the ability to adapt to very specific target groups. It is possible that we will talk in the long run about not ten graduates, but five or seven. But that's my best idea right now. That is why the Ministry of Social Affairs has said that it would like to explore the Nordic model, its practice and perhaps the changes they plan to make in the long term. How do they do all this anyway? This is why they have not taken as a basis just statistical numbers. The Ministry of Social Affairs said they wanted to look more into the system. But yes, the hearing people themselves have brought out these numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U44	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U45	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Minister! This issue also has a very direct bearing on teachers' salaries. And unfortunately, there's been a signal from the Government of the Republic that next year, teachers' salaries are threatened by freezing. Today's news came that teachers are already planning a strike. And here's my question: can you, Madam Minister, today from this honourable Riigikogu board tell all Estonian teachers that next year the salaries of teachers will rise and that this will take place on the same scale as you have promised them before the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U46	Thank you. I have to look closely for this connection between sign language interpreters and teachers' salaries, but I'll find it. But just as the whole public knows, and as the members of the Riigikogu know, tomorrow and Thursday are the moments when the state budget is viewed by sector. And I'm sure a week later, when we talk about other things in this Chamber, I'm in front of you and I can already give you better answers. Today I have a little too little of this information. But I can assure you that I am still a great supporter of Estonian education and, of course, I will do my best not to be embarrassed in any way. These figures, which here have been a model for many countries in recent years, have been more than a third of our rise, and teachers' wage increases have been 35%, show that ambition to assess education, internal security and culture is continuing with dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U47	Thank you. Signe Riisalo next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U48	Good President! Madam Secretary! I understand that the provision of sign language training at higher education level is largely behind the lack of students. The motivation to learn comes when you have a job security. The target group that consumes this service is small, the price of the service is high, the target group itself does not pay for it. Perhaps, in fact, everything in the social and educational system is going to go back to financing the service and this should be a key issue. In this way, we would both provide the service for those who need it and, on the other hand, provide the necessary learners so that they can continue to learn sign language at higher education level. However, coming back to the third question relating to teaching sign language children in general education schools, whether the use of sign language interpreters in regular general education schools, rather than in HEV schools, is also considered in the key to inclusive education.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U49	Yeah. Thank you for your question. In general education schools, the whole concept of inclusive education has actually emerged from the fact that parents want the best for their children. Parents make a choice according to their children to choose a district school or a different school for their studies. In the case of hearing impaired, we only have the first years in which these children have gone to regular schools since the operation, and there have actually been setbacks. The history of supporting such children and taking into account their specific characteristics has been quite long. I dare not speak for the whole area, and there are much better specialists in this Chamber, but let's just say that the community feels that ordinary school is not always the best for the child, and it has become clear to parents as well. And this community is very supportive, which I have understood from all these meetings. If the parent has a choice between one and the other, the choices will be considered very long and thorough. So I dare say to you that we are certainly prepared to consider all the options, but today these two schools are actually doing such a good job that it is likely that this choice has been appropriate for parents in these cases. However, these schools are very small and practically half of the children go to mainstream schools, so parents who have made this choice for various reasons and whose children go to school there are highly informed parents. But once again, this decision is certainly well individualised and depends on what the situation is. The schools of Tartu and Tallinn have their own rules, their own methodological characteristics, what they teach and how they teach. Parents have also moved to another area according to the school choice they want to make. So that's the situation today. How can you now answer this question the other way around? When a parent comes to a regular school with a child and needs translation services, it is likely that this desire needs to be rethought differently. That's how it's been in universities. To this end, we developed a scholarship for students with special needs just over ten years ago. It happened the way the students came in, and we needed a scholarship. As a result of a very long discussion, this scholarship eventually gained the status of a special scholarship which has existed in this strange form in the Ministry of Education for the entire time. It actually came about on the basis of individual examples. So I would answer a good questioner so that everything is based on very specific examples, very specific cases. Just as for the blind, quite concrete examples of life came out of themselves and so much effort was needed to deal with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U50	Thank you. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U51	Thank you, chairman of the meeting. Dear Minister, I am interested that how many students in recent years have applied for this scholarship to receive sign language support. For my part, I can add that years ago, for example, one student at the Estonian Academy of Arts graduated from this opportunity. Do you have any information on that? Have there been any such cases? Have all those who applied for this scholarship received it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U52	Thank you, good questioner! I'm really sorry, but I'm gonna have to delay these answers a little bit. Indeed, I can't tell by heart how and how many of these scholarships have been awarded and whether there have been refusals. I can't answer that. I know the story of the scholarship. I know how it used to come about. It was a paid period of study. The amount of the scholarship was such that those who are less financially insured could also be included. And the scholarship progressed as needed. Now we're going through the applications on a case-by-case basis, but I'm afraid I can't say the numbers. They're definitely not big, but they don't want to be wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The debate on this topic was also held in the Committee on Social Affairs during the previous term, where, indeed, you unfortunately could not be present, but there were very good officials from the Ministry of Education and Research. And today, listening here to these answers and hearing that something has moved in a promising direction, I have a question. We all know that education and social are very closely linked. And indeed, what was before, and what affects something, is also very closely linked. If the Ministry of Social Affairs is working out and preparing an analysis by April, whether there was a discussion about this as well, perhaps you are not the right person to reply to it today, that it is not very normal that Tallinn really supports sign language services for two hours a month, and I am quite convinced that in very many places people do not even have the possibility to receive a paid service or a service paid by the municipality. Is there any way to legitimise this situation across the country so that this service does not depend on where you live? Then our sign - language translators would also have work and people's motivation to learn it. Did the discussions that were held with the Ministry of Social Affairs reach that conclusion?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U54	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U55	Thank you. I can see that the questioner is absolutely familiar with the subject. This proposal is exactly on the table, and it will be analysed exactly. But let's just say that I'm not the right person to answer, whether this is a promising debate: whether this analysis really shows what it has to show, or whether it shows what we hope it will show. I can't tell you that. But yes, that is what we are dealing with in order to clarify whether it is possible to describe this service nationally and then to finance it publicly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U56	Thank you. It seems that the members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I will open negotiations, and Jüri Jaanson will be the first to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U57	Thank you very much. Thank you also to the Minister for his answers. I would like to start by saying, however, that whatever we are discussing here, the reality is that there are people who need sign language. There are now, there will be, there will be, there will be at all ages. They need sign language to be translated both for education and for coping with well - complex everyday situations. And the translation must continue. A few things I might comment on from the Minister. First of all, the egg-chicken issue. Well, it's kind of a squirrel-wheel move and you just have to find a way out of it. One topic that needs to be taken into consideration here, and which needs to be considered, is that there are two different things: sign language learning and the training of sign language interpreters. When we look at the current situation, at higher education level, sign language translators are often taught by people whose basic sign language skills are actually very low and who then in higher education study both sign language and translation in parallel. This, in turn, is one of the problems within the big problem. We cannot imagine a person going to study English philology or translation without knowing a word of English or understanding it at some basic level. So here is the idea that there should be more opportunities to learn sign language in general education schools, especially for hearing children. Now, we know that this possibility exists in Viljandi Gymnasium, it is possible to study in Tartu or Tallinn Adult Education Centre, here and there in some other places, but that is all. Perhaps the Ministry should also make efforts here and make recommendations on how to allow sign language as a elective, in order to attract audiences' children. Then, like a special educator, the base may arise that they go to study the language or that they can learn the language, even as an extraterrestrial. But, of course, when we talk about a sign language learning module, we could see what level it has. Having completed this module must also be able to cope in very difficult situations, including when they have to translate what the deaf learn, for example, in higher education, sometimes these are very complex topics. The question now is whether these module users can do anything or whether they will reply, or whether the module itself will, for example, meet the higher levels of the professional standard of sign language interpreter. These problems are really the subject here. Go on, digital solutions. These seem to be excellent solutions. But in fact, digital solutions have such a catch that they can even amplify the shortage of interpreters and just on the spot. Well, Skype can use these, very progressively, these solutions must be used. At the same time, the paradoxical situation is that translators may actually be missing because the service is exponentially used more and so it is. I would like to conclude by saying that I am running out of time, and I very much want to say that the Ministry will have the strength to deal with this issue. This is a common topic for both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research. There should be some kind of very strong bridge between the two towers, and this topic must finally be resolved. Because people we have...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U58	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U59	I'm gonna take some time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U60	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U61	We have people here, and it's important to people because of their sense of belonging to society. This connection, this is the only sign language interpreter, is the only link between them and society. And the feeling of belonging comes from whether they're involved or not involved or being pushed away.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U62	Thank you. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U63	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to this debate, and it is undoubtedly an extremely important problem for those people who need sign language translation. I decided to take the floor because I worked as dean of the Faculty of Education of the University of Tartu at the moment when the sign language specialty was brought into practice at the University of Tartu. I have listened very carefully to what has been said today, and I would like to draw attention to two things. First of all, if we want our country to have the capacity to prepare sign language translation in the future, looking far ahead, we need relevant research, we need academic staff. There is no specialty that can be kept alive without research. And that's why it takes someone to go or a couple of people to go, given our small size, to go somewhere in the world's leading university to get an education on this subject. Otherwise, we can't keep this specialty alive, either as a major or as a distraction. The second that touched me, and which Mr Jaanson has just pointed out, was whether the marginal area is now a good substitute for the main specialty. Will people with sufficient knowledge and skills come out of it at all? In this curriculum, perhaps even in re-skilling, where people who already have sign language skills will receive the qualifications that will really help people on this scale, as we will provide further education at the University of Tartu. With this retraining, it is very good that there can be very good professionals working there, who are currently living in this specialty, without degrees. Secondly, it was very good to hear the Minister for Education and Research repeatedly stress that in fact, if I understood correctly, the additional funding was still ready to be found on this expensive but very important subject. Just as keeping a small country is expensive, sign language training and living are very expensive. I would really like to wish everyone who is involved in this subject, even directly to this target group, the strength to keep this important subject alive. We hope that a high-quality solution will be found academically so that quality will not suffer in all the restructuring processes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U64	Thank you. There's no more calls. Is there anything else the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I will then conclude the debate and the negotiations on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-16_U65	Now all applicants have the opportunity to register for speaking in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Please! Looks like there's no call. The sitting is adjourned. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 4:41 p.m.
