ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-17_U1	Good morning, honorables. We will start the 5th working week Thursday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. I am prepared to accept inquiries and draft laws if anyone wishes to hand them over. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-17_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Committee initiates the Act amending the Eesti Pank Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-17_U3	Excellent! The bill has been adopted and will be processed as foreseen. There are no further inquiries or referrals. So, please, let's do the presence check! 73 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present, no 28.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-17_U4	Let's get to the agenda. Don't buzz! Listen carefully to the title of the item. This is the second reading of Bill 29 of Amendment to the Tax Administration Act, Courts Act and Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Maris Lauri, Vice-Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-17_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to make a little introduction to this bill because it was first read in the hall on 12 June. As you can see from the title, three laws are being amended. The main theme of this draft is the transposition of a European Union directive defining how to resolve disputes arising from the application of external agreements which eliminate double taxation of income and capital between Member States. This draft amends, in addition to the Tax Administration Act, the Courts Act in order to allow judges to participate as an independent recognised person in the resolution of such disputes. As a small cluster, the publication of the identity codes of the candidates of the referee is also complemented. Another additional issue that the draft concerns is the granting of the Tax and Customs Board the right to publish data containing tax confidentiality in order to verify the eligibility and targeted use of grants to the promoters of national support programmes, as well as to verify compliance with the Environmental Agency's specific liquid fuel law and atmospheric air protection requirements. The procedure for the draft. No amendments were received by the deadline of 27 June, members of the Riigikogu or political groups. The Commission discussed the draft at three meetings: 17 and 29 September and 7 October. In consensus, the Committee on Monetary Affairs made one amendment specifying the date of entry into force of the Act, which was set at 15 November. The reason why a specific date was put in place is that implementing drafts have to be adopted. The Commission sought the opinion of a number of organisations and associations, including the courts, but no new proposals were received from them. However, the Commission had two major issues which were discussed in three sessions. I'll take a short look at them. Firstly, the Committee on Monetary Affairs asked for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the law of the courts, which is traditionally the responsibility of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 10 September and there was no fundamental opposition to the amendments. Although the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered that the amendment in Paragraph 7 (6) is too general, it did not propose a different wording. Then followed the discussion with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the courts. There were different wordings, but in the end it was decided that since they did not have a common reference point, the original wording would be retained. In particular, where a Judge carries out his extra official duties, he may not perform any work which undermines the performance of his duties or the independence of his administration of justice. This dispute was resolved by reference to § 2 of the Courts Act. One reason why the current wording of the draft was maintained was that the resolution of the dispute would obviously require more time, but the deadline for transposition of the directive has already expired, which was 30 June. So when these discussions come to a decision, we will have to make the necessary changes in the Riigikogu sometime later. The second topic arose from the fact that the Estonian Bar Association made an address on the part of the Tax Administration Act concerning tax secrecy. The Bar Association found that the provisions allowing the disclosure of tax secrecy are too abstract and too spacious in both the draft and the current law. So the subject was discussed very thoroughly. On 17 September, representatives of the Bar Association and representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Department were present. At the meeting on 23 September, the issue of the protection of tax secrecy was dealt with in a very thorough manner. In the course of this, the representatives of the Tax and Customs Board explained how the work on the protection of tax secrets has been organised, how access to data is given and how it is monitored and audited. As a result of these discussions, the Committee on Monetary Affairs considered that § 29 of the Tax Administration Act, which contains the special features of the publication of tax secrets in about 60 cases, would need to be reviewed and harmonised in the future as a whole, with very different provisions, which is why it should be dealt with. Perhaps some of the things that the Tax and Customs Board has been placed under the protection of secrecy because of tax secrecy are not in other databases, such as address details. The second aspect is that the work of the Tax and Customs Board on the protection of tax secrecy deserves recognition and there is no need to amend or supplement this issue in the draft. The decisions taken at the meeting on 7 October were as follows: Firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 16 October. The Riigikogu Board decided to make a second reading today, 17 October. When the second reading is closed, it is proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda for the third reading by 23 October. And on October 8, it was decided to change the waitress, so now I'm here instead of Riina Sikkut. That's it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-17_U6	Thank you, dear waitress. The members of the Riigikogu can ask up to two questions to the rapporteur, so be my guest. But I don't see any questions. It is now possible to open negotiations on this issue. The bill itself has 14 pages of fine text. Would anyone like to participate in the negotiations? Negotiations are open to everyone, everyone can speak on their own behalf and, in addition, on behalf of the Group and on behalf of the Commission, so that the opportunity to speak is extensive. But I don't see any desire to participate in the negotiations. Consequently, I will conclude negotiations or, rather, I will not open negotiations. It is now up to us to examine the amendments. One amendment has been tabled, it has been made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself, and the commission has, of course, taken full account of it. We have also examined the amendments. The second reading of Bill 29 is complete and the sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.11.
