ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We were all suddenly struck by the sad news that Mart Nutt, a long-standing member of the Riigikogu, and our colleague, left us. We express our condolences to his family and his loved ones. Let's think about him and thank him for everything and make a minute's silence! [[The silence of grief.]] We will begin the 8th working week of the first plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Looks like there aren't any. I'm sorry, it is! Echo Kallas, please! I'm sorry! Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu wishes to pass on a draft of the Riigikogu's decision'Appointment of the members of the Board of the Guarantee Fund'.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U3	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinosvki, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I will give the Riigikogu a draft law supplementing the R &amp; D organisation law, the content of which is simple in itself: it states that 1% of GDP must be allocated to R &amp; D from the state budget. The draft provides that funding will reach this level within three years, i.e. by 2020, in accordance with the science agreement concluded. There is no need to discuss for long here that science is a future investment. In order to be a smarter and more successful society tomorrow, we must invest in science today. And we were certainly all pleased that, at the end of last year, we reached an agreement with political parties and interested parties, which clearly stated that this spring the necessary amounts would be found to bring public funding for R &amp; D to 1% of GDP and that then these investments would be kept at least at the same level. This agreement is similar to a defence cost agreement, but now the government has unilaterally withdrawn from it, preferring short-term populism to long-term strategic decisions for the future. And if the government is unable to keep its word, we must intervene at the level of the law. And that's what we're proposing to you with our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U5	And now it's Kaja Kallas' turn.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 45 members of the Riigikogu, I hand over a motion of censure to Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior. Since the government took office and, unfortunately, before that, the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme has been able to do damage to the reputation of the Estonian state, to the reputation of the authorities under his authority and to show by his actions that he does not understand the responsibility of the position of a member of the government. Mart Helme has verbally attacked and humiliated women, scientists, social experts, the press and the rule of law from the position of a member of the government. That is why we are presenting a motion of distrust, which is justified by the examples we have read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U7	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U8	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I present the decision of the Riigikogu on the composition of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia, composed of Aadu Must, Johannes Kert, Urmas Espenberg, Helle-Moonika Helme, Marek Jürgenson, Signe Kivi, Kalvi Kõud, Helmen Küttt, Üllar Saaremäe, Erki Savisaar, Sven Sester and Urve Tiidus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U9	Thank you. On behalf of the governing board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts and one motion of distrust. The Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Checking for presence. There are 97 members of the Riigikogu, missing 4. Adoption of the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the 8th working week agenda for the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 90 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U10	We go to the first point: First reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre' submitted by the Committee on the Environment. The rapporteur is Kalle Palling, member of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed the submission of a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre' on Monday 13 May. According to § 49 (3) (1) of the Forest Act, the Supervisory Board of RMK is composed of two members appointed by decision of the Riigikogu. The previous composition appointed members of the Riigikogu Jaanus Marrand and Andres Metsoja to the Supervisory Board of RMK. Their mandate ended with the end of the mandate of the members of the Riigikogu; new people must now be appointed. The political groups nominated Mikhail Korbi and Andres Metsoja as members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. Of course, there was a public vote and it was decided to propose that the Assembly appoint Mikhail Korb and Andres Metsoja as members of the Supervisory Board of RMK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U12	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Of course it is! Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U13	Thank you. There is one question. Good Kalle, did you also discuss how competent these people are in the RMK Council at the committee meeting? I'm sure you'd think Andres Metsoja would already be familiar with forest matters by virtue of his name. Jaanus Marrandi, who owns the forest, was also very familiar with forest matters. Did you discuss the competence of a member of the Commission's candidates in handling the most expensive assets of our country and nation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U14	Thank you. Dear Kalvi, I believe you know the answer very well. The Riigikogu is a cross section of society; there are people of different degrees of competence in many areas of life. I have no reason to doubt that the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the Group of the Isamaa chose among themselves the most competent to hold this profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U15	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U16	Thank you! I will continue with this question. Once, I remember five years ago, Tõnis Lukas, sitting in the back, was the chairman of the Environment Commission. At the time, the government decided to name two IRLs. Then somebody asked him how it went like that, and he said they had a special relationship with the woods. And he was referring to the life of the Forest Brotherhood. Did the Committee on the Environment in any way this time identify the contact between these persons and the topics related to the word 'forest'?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U17	Thank you, good questioner! You're a member of the Environment Commission yourself. We did not have such a discussion. But, coming back to my previous answer, I repeat: I believe that indeed Mr Korb and Mr Metsoja are the most competent in this area in their group, as they may be the most competent in other areas in their group. So we trust the decision of the political groups. This is the procedure, after all, that the political groups appoint their representatives. And following the same principle, I think tomorrow, Kalvi Ring will be discussed here as a member of the Environmental Investment Centre Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U18	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U19	Thank you. Good waitress! You stated in your first reply that the Riigikogu is a cross section of society and should also be reflected in the collections to which the Riigikogu appoints its representatives. In order for this cross-section to be as covering as possible, the principle is used in many other cases, both internationally and in Estonia, so that there are not only representatives of the coalition but also of the opposition in such councils. We're dealing with two coalition ambassadors. Did you also consider that you could choose the option of being both a coalition and a representative of the opposition for better coverage and a better cross-section?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U20	Thank you, good Indrek! We did not discuss this issue because the political groups had presented us with the persons specifically mentioned as candidates. If there had also been suitable candidates from the opposition, either the Social Democratic Party or the Reform Party Group, there would have been something to discuss. The hypothetical situation of the emergence of new candidates did not arise. I believe that this may be a principle based on previous experience, why it was decided to present those candidates who also had the opportunity to become elected. I am here now in the role of rapporteur and can only reflect the Commission's debate. Indeed, the candidates were nominated precisely for these seats. That's the way it is this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U21	Looks like there's no more questions for the waitress. Let's get to the vote, but before that, I'll call you. Before I put the draft to the vote, it sounded like there were requests for negotiation. No, it's not. In that case, we shall put the draft to the vote. On the basis of § 117 (3) of the Home and Working Procedures Act, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision'Appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre' proposed by the Environmental Committee. Please take a stand and vote. There was 82 votes for, 5 against, 1 abstention. Bill 24 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U22	We are going to agenda item 2, which is the first reading of the draft European Convention on Denunciation of Violence and Other Irregularities of Football Competitions and Other Sports Events initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Tõnis Lukas, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U23	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The government is really proposing to you a draft law on the denunciation of the European Convention on violence and other irregularities against football matches and other sporting events. And the fact that we're denouncing something that we may not need to talk about any further right now is a matter of order. Our aim is to join the new Convention, but in order to become a member of the new Convention, the previous one must lose its strength. If the Riigikogu is prepared to denounce this convention, the government can proceed with the relevant activities. This convention, which we are abandoning now, is 1985. That time was harsh and well known for the really big accidents that happened in football stadiums. The violence escalated and led to tragic consequences: the entry of the stands, burns, and so forth. The international community immediately decided to do something and that is why this Convention was drawn up in 1985. Estonia joined it in 1993, but ratification took place only in 2002. The Convention entered into force with regard to the Republic of Estonia on 1 April 2003. The new Convention, which has been agreed, has a slightly different title: 'Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to security, security and service in football matches and other sporting events'. It is therefore broader, cross-cutting cooperation to prevent tragic consequences and all kinds of incidents and even minor inconveniences that a word or action may cause for its fellow citizens. This Convention was drawn up in 2016 and has also been discussed in the Council of the European Union, as it is a cross-border police cooperation. As a result, it was also necessary to support the idea of the Convention with the approval of European governments. What can be taken out of this whole process? I have already said that, on this basis, I would ask the Riigikogu to support the denunciation of this convention so that the Government of the Republic can move forward in approving the new convention. And the approval of the Convention at the level of the Government of the Republic is really enough; it is no longer necessary to bring it to the Riigikogu. There is no need for a law to accede to the new Convention. The Sport Act, the Planning and Construction Act, in fact, still provides opportunities to ensure order. And the procedures currently contained in UEFA and FIFA rules are even stricter than the general principles of the Convention. In fact, the international competitions in Estonia already comply with international requirements, which are also included in this new convention. Some of the details in the relevant cases need to be made. Police and Home Affairs need to put in place an emergency plan, but there's no need to change the emergency law. So once again: I would ask the Riigikogu to support the denunciation of the 1985 Convention, so we can move forward in international cooperation to ensure the security of sports competitions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U24	Any questions for the waitress? George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U25	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, When could accession to the new Convention become a reality? Is this time in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U26	Yes, it is in the sense that we can proceed with this as soon as the Riigikogu approves the denunciation. The draft can then be submitted to the government and if it is approved by the government at the beginning of the following month, the convention will be in force in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U27	It is also a question of Tarmo Kruusimägi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U28	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Will football fans also be involved in complementing the convention and expected to have input from them? So that we wouldn't have an alcohol excise: everyone kept lifting, but no one asked for a beer friend's opinion. Are football fans welcome, involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U29	I wonder if I might have a conflict of interest. I'm a member of this nonprofit organization, yeah, Football Hospital. But I don't see that fans are hurt in any way. On the contrary, their safety is guaranteed and the football alliance has been negotiated. The Estonian Football Association may also pass on new requirements to football clubs. So if it's necessary to meet the Football Hospital's office, for example, I'm assigning somebody, I'm not allowed to come and see you, because I'm an interested party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U30	Thank you. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good performer! I understand that in our republic, the bickering between football fans and, let's say, spectators and football players is not a problem at all. But what happens if we don't approve?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U32	If we do not approve, it will simply be difficult to organise international football matches. And it's also about hockey, basketball and maybe other sports, but mostly those three. It is difficult for us to bring international competitions here if we have not joined this convention, because it concerns security and well-being, both in the absence of specific violence and in the proper service and in the exchange of information between countries. So then we'd be stuck in international isolation in organising sports competitions, which would be bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U33	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U34	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister! Why can't the title be simply denunciation of the Convention on violence against viewers of sporting events? Why has one sport been highlighted and the others simply refer to the bowls? Why shouldn't all sports competitions provide security and order?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U35	Since the Convention already exists with such a title, opening a discussion over the title would be intellectually interesting, but it would probably not change the process or maybe hold it back. If we decide that Estonia will not join for this reason, for example, then we simply cannot organise these competitions. Nobody will change the title, and this is probably due to the 1985 practice. At present, international organisations have thus assessed that fences, restrictions and security controls in these three sports are likely to need to be more seriously ensured than in other sports. And that's because of two things. First of all, there is the risk that fans in these sports will be more stormy and that the facilities may not survive if there are just huge masses together. But on the other hand, it's a good thing if the requirements do not apply to all sports competitions. It would simply create too many bureaucratic and other obstacles in sports where there are no security problems. The implementation of strict requirements is often also a financial issue. So the less regulated, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U36	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U37	Good manager! Good waitress! You said in answer to Riho Breivel's question that if we don't join, it's gonna be hard to organise sports competitions. I see that only 18 countries have joined it in the European Union. How, then, can football matches be organised in the rest of Europe? And which countries of the European Union have not joined it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U38	The process of accession to this new Convention is in fact still ongoing. To date, Azerbaijan, France, Monaco, Poland, Norway, Portugal, the Czech Republic and Russia have ratified the new Convention. Following this decision of the Council of the European Union, several other countries have started their process: Bulgaria, Cyprus, Finland, Italy, Romania. As far as I'm concerned, everyone's gonna join in. Estonia ratified the previous Convention only ten years later after it was signed. Well, these processes take time. But since our Riigikogu has now launched and is not overloaded, I propose that we do this little thing right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U39	Looks like there's no more questions. Thank you, Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas! Next, please present Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, member of the Chair Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U40	Minister, thank you very much. Mr President, Members of the Riigikogu. On 28 May, we discussed this issue in the Committee on Culture. Chancellor of the Ministry of Culture Tarvi Siits and legal adviser Siiri Pelisar gave an overview of the draft Act on Denunciation of the European Convention on Violence and Other Irregularities of Football Competitions and Other Sports Events initiated by the Government of the Republic. During the survey and the debate, the members of the Commission were informed that the draft concerned large football matches in particular. Our main question was what obligations this entails for the Estonian state. We learned that joining the Convention does not lead to state budget obligations, but it must be taken into account that there are very specific rules and obligations to be fulfilled by the organiser when conducting international competitions. The draft was also submitted for opinion to the Estonian Olympic Committee and its 106 members with legal personality. The draft was coordinated by the Estonian Boxing Association, the Estonian Sumolite and the Estonian Veere Games Association. Other sports organisations did not provide any feedback on the draft. The draft is therefore deemed to have been agreed. None of the organisations raised any additional issues. The main concern of the Committee on Culture was what the football federation still thinks. In cooperation with the Estonian Football Association, an explanatory memorandum has now been drawn up, so the Estonian Football Association is familiar with the draft. We also turned to the Estonian Football Association to ask about the costs of the new convention. According to the Secretary-General of the Union, they are aware of the draft denunciation, involved in the development of the new Convention and are already complying with the principles of the new Convention. We were also very interested in what happens if Estonia does not take any steps, but leaves things the way they are. We learned that if the old convention is not denounced, Estonia will remain internationally bound by the old convention, which is beginning to fade more and more. There will be no necessary cooperation. If Estonia denounces the old one but does not join the new convention, then we will not have the opportunity to participate in the international process. Accession to the Convention gives a positive signal that Estonia takes into account international practices, norms and rules. Otherwise, it may also indirectly affect the introduction of international competitions into Estonia. We members of the Commission were also interested in what cases of sports violence have occurred in Estonia. The answer was that there were 14 lighter incidents in 2018, one during the international game and 13 during the Estonian Championship League games. It was a use of pyrotechnics and a run for the field. There have also been two cases of violent behaviour by coaches or players. There have been no major incidents in recent years. We were also interested in why some sports cause violence and others do not. The answer we received was that this was based on fan culture and subcultures on their own. Fortunately, there have been no major disasters in recent years. One major change that was made years ago is that all international competitions must have seats. Infrastructure has received a lot of attention. We were also curious about the terrorist threats that have existed before, and whether this would be the case for Estonia. It has been explained to us that the relevant authorities always assess the risk scenarios for major events, but that accession to the new Convention is still ahead and that we were not able to give an exact answer to that. With regard to the new Convention, it has been discussed and agreed which principles must be followed when organising international competitions, which agreements and guidelines are to be drawn up. In organising international competitions in Estonia, we must also follow international rules. The decision of the Committee on Culture was to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 3 June and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U41	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U42	Thank you, good Chairman! Good Commission waitress! I read on paper that three sports federations have coordinated the bill. Am I right to understand that the Estonian Boxing Federation, the Estonian Sumolite and the Estonian Association of Veere Games do not send their athletes to demonstrate their skills at football matches?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U43	This was not discussed in the Committee on Culture. But the three of them have agreed in writing that they will organize competitions according to their rules. But everyone else who didn't answer is, as I said before, aware of the matter. And most importantly, our football alliance has also sent a letter to the Committee on Culture that they are already operating under the new Convention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U44	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. It seems that the representatives of the political groups do not want to negotiate. According to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the first reading of the draft 25 has been completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft, including 10 June at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U45	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa. The rapporteur is Siim Pohlak, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U46	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this draft is to amend the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity in order to reduce excise duties on 25% beer, cider and spirits. The desire is to curb border trade. Different prices for these products have been the main driver of border trade towards Latvia. The draft relates to the fundamental principles of the Estonian Central Party, the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Government Union of the Isamaa Party for the years 2019 to 2023. This coalition agreement provides for the reduction of border trade by reducing excise duties. The proposed regulation is compatible with the Constitution. Reducing excise duty rates will have a positive impact on operators' activities, as it will be possible to reduce alcohol prices by reducing excise duty. The ability of Estonian entrepreneurs to compete with Latvian companies will thus improve. A little bit of influence, too. In the application of the Act, the difference between the excise rates of other alcohols in Estonia and Latvia becomes minimal and the difference in excise duty on beer is significantly reduced. As a result of the reduction in excise duty rates, alcohol producers and importers will have the opportunity to lower prices in order to influence consumers to make their purchases in Estonia instead of Latvia. As a result of the fall in excise duties, the difference in the price of goods sold in Estonia and Latvia will decrease, and it will grow in our favour compared to Finland. In 2017, part of Finns who used to go shopping in Estonia also travelled to Latvia to buy alcohol. The reduction of excise duty is likely to reduce the alcohol purchases of Finns in Latvia and it is probably no longer worthwhile for the inhabitants of Northern Estonia to go after alcohol alone. Some of the state's activities and expected revenue-costs related to the implementation of the law. A conservative, cautious calculation has been made that the elimination of increases in excise duties on alcohol will result in a reduction in the income of excise duties on alcohol, but the increase in sales volume could lead to an increase in VAT receipts. Excise and VAT revenues in millions of euros are estimated to be 12 million fewer in 2019 compared to the Spring Economic Forecast of the Ministry of Finance, but 3 million more in the next four years. So that should balance the situation. And once again, these are cautious predictions. The calculation assumes that purchases of other alcohol in Latvia will decrease by about 80% and beer purchases by around 45%. At the same time, sales of other alcohol at the northern border are expected to increase by 35% and sales of beer by 20%. The date of entry into force of the Act is scheduled for 1 July 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U47	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U48	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! Leaving aside the later minor corrections, we have so far been in agreement with this has been confirmed by your presentation, by the Institute of Economics and by the statistics available from many other sources, that the multiplication of border trade was due to a sharp increase in the excise duty on lean alcohol of 70% in mid-2017 and by 45% on beer. Your bill is not trying to correct this mistake, but to make it a lower level that it is cheaper to buy vodka than beer. You also acknowledge that vodka border trade disappears, I might add that vodka will become cheaper than in Latvia, but beer purchases will remain. What kind of analysis did you use when you did this non-error correction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U49	Thank you, my good colleague, for the question. I'm gonna argue with you a little bit first, though. In the case of strong alcohol, I will give Liviko an example. In 2016, Liviko group companies paid 54 million excise duties into the Estonian state budget, but a year later, when the strong alcohol rally had started, there were only 35 million of them. However, I say that this is also an important problem in the case of strong alcohol. You asked what kind of analysis we relied on. One of them was the analysis carried out by KPMG on behalf of the taxpayers' association, which was completed in October 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U50	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I have to ask you something. In general, research, as well as the experience of other countries, shows that if we want to get rid of border trade, we do not need to lower excise rates to the level of neighbouring countries. There's a difference. Studies show that if this difference is minimal, there is simply no economic incentive to follow this commodity. Why do you need to reduce alcohol duty to the level that Latvia currently has? And if Latvia, according to its plans for next year, is going to raise this excise duty a little bit, then ours will still be below their level. Why is that necessary? After all, we are unduly losing tax revenue, and the health aspect is also unaccounted for here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U52	Thank you. Our debate was long and that was finally a political agreement. But I say that, in addition to Latvia, we are still counting on Finland. After all, we need to get Finnish tourists back to Estonia to make their purchases here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U53	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U54	Thank you very much. According to your bill, the excise duty on beer, cider and spirits should fall by 25%, but the reduction of the excise duty on wine is excluded. Would you please explain why the wine was left out?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U55	Thank you, my good colleague. According to the Coalition, the border trade in wine currently has no significant impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U56	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U57	Thank you. Good waitress! You indicated that you had based the KPMG study, but that the KPMG study had different rates of excise duty reductions proposed. Maybe you'll be a little more specific about what kind of impact analysis you've done and how did you get to these numbers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U58	Thank you. There were different studies, including PricewaterhouseCoopers. But I also said that this was the political agreement, that it was right there that got together, and that 25% is our proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U59	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U60	Thank you. Good waitress! It is clear that as many unsuccessful decisions as were made in 2017 in excise policy, Estonia's tax history does not know before. Hopefully, we can avoid the same kind of spiders in the future. Like Jürgen Ligi, I think that this is in any case a step in the right direction. First of all, it probably takes a lot of manhood from both Sven Sester, who was Minister of Finance at the rise of 2017, and Jüri Ratas, who was then prime minister to admit: yes, went wrong. And here I very sincerely acknowledge them. I'm saying you have to be able to admit mistakes when mistakes are made. But my question is similar to that of the previous speakers: what is the logic that I would have to pay less in Estonia in the future than in Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U61	Thank you, questioner! First of all, I also recognise the Reform Party. In fact, this excise race was once initiated by you, and it refers to you as a great politician that you have at least come along with an alcohol excise drop plan. But I already said that was the political agreement, and that is the draft today. Of course you can make your suggestions for improvement; no one can prohibit it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U62	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U63	Thank you. Good waitress! Don't talk about the border trade blowing up the Reform Party. It has grown from 4% to 25. And the trigger, according to the research, was the year-end rise in lean alcohol excise duty. Please be polite in that respect. But I asked you about the research. You said you were based on KPMG's research. No, it's not! This was the basis for Mr Helme's views, similar to those of the Reform Party. And it's very symptomatic that you started talking about Liviko's taxes. It is very interesting that before Liviko wrote a double commendation to the government on behalf of alcohol producers. Now you're coming here with the same thing. However, I ask again: on the basis of what studies do you consider vodka to be so cheap compared to lean alcohol?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U64	Thank you, good questioner! I could have left Liviko's name unnamed and just said one strong alcohol producer. And second of all, I'm definitely not talking about this remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U65	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U66	Thank you. Very respectable waitress! I, too, draw attention to an important error in the explanatory memorandum. There's no way you can get rid of the fact that you're looking for someone else to blame. In fact, the draft explanatory memorandum states that alcohol border trade increased in 2015. I have very precise data that in 2016 the share of alcohol border trade was 6%. And within one year of the decisions referred to by Jürgen Ligi, the share of alcohol border trade increased to 27%. In one year! Not in 2015 or 2016, but in 2017 it made this leap. My question is as follows. You are suggesting that this draft is aimed at curbing border trade. At the same time, you can see indirect effects on human health as well. What does that mean for human health? Does it have a good effect on human health, or is it rather problematic?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U67	Thank you. Good questioner, I think we can always say about alcohol that it has a negative effect on human health, no matter what context we are talking about. As far as health behaviour is concerned, I did not notice that this increase in excise duty would have helped to reduce drinking in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U68	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U69	Good waitress! Before you indicated that you had drawn up a draft on the basis of a study by KPMG to some extent. From this survey, it turned out that beer was the most purchased in Latvia, and this figure was 79%. If we look at your bill, we will see that strong alcohol becomes relatively cheaper and, unfortunately, the difference between the price of beer remains. What logic or impact analysis did you come up with? And please do not say that this is a political agreement, please tell me what was the basis for such a political agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U70	Thank you, good questioner! In the framework of this KPMG study, a Kantar Emor survey was conducted, which revealed that 81% of respondents would limit their purchases in neighbouring countries if prices in Estonia were lower than today. The lion's share, or 90% of people, would give up the alcohol shopping trip if the price difference for a beer case was 2 euros. We are actually very close to this: the difference between 2.10 and 2.15. As for vodka, once again, we also need to think about tourists coming from the north.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U71	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U72	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. This is a bill prepared by the Ministry of Finance, which you are defending here right now. In point 7 of the explanatory memorandum, "State activities, expected costs and revenues related to the implementation of the Law' is based on the fact that Latvia's excise policy remains the same. We have received the expected signals that, in the context of this draft, the Latvian Government will also consider, at least next year, not lowering excise duties. And now the question is: have you received any calculations from the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance, which means that we will receive when the Latvians change their alcohol excise policy? I have asked Martin Helme a written question, he has not answered me. Has it been discussed in the coalition that if, for example, instead of +3%, there is a 20% increase, who will be cut off?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U73	Thank you. As far as Latvia is concerned, this is all pure speculation right now. They're just forming a working group, deciding what they're doing. Whether they're canceling their next rise or really going to lower their excises, we don't know the plan. So that's not what I'm gonna speculate about.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U74	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U75	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You have stressed on several occasions that the current draft is a coalition agreement based on an impact assessment of KPMG. You've made a difference. I will come back for a moment to Mr Sõerdi's question. He drew your attention to the lack of justification for lowering the price of vodka to the same level as Latvia. You replied in the light of the economic side, but you ignored the public health aspect that Aivar asked about. And I'm asking as we approach public health. What did you rely on to lower the price of vodka as low as you thought about the health aspect?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U76	In 2017, Estonians consumed 10.2 litres of alcohol on average. In 2018, this figure was 10.1 litres, which is essentially within the limits of a statistical error. So no major decrease in consumption has been accompanied by an increase in excise duties, and it is unlikely that the opposite will happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U77	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said in introducing your bill, I quote you: 'We need to get Finnish tourists back to Estonia. " Information came from Finland yesterday that an increase in alcohol duty was planned. We do not know how much and how it will affect the price, but on this basis, I can admit that you may have the right to a grain for Finnish tourists. But personally, I am very well aware of why Finns travel to Estonia. Cultural motives, other leisure motives, health tourism etc. are very high. Tell me, can you estimate how many Finnish tourists you want to bring back here or attract new tourists to us? Is there any way to give a number? 100,000? $200,000? Half a million?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U79	Thank you. First of all, I wouldn't dare say that people who used to come here on alcohol shopping didn't consume culture. It is said that among the audience in Estonia, for example, the proportion of Finns has decreased following this increase in excise duty. I do not know the specific number at the moment, but I believe that any additional purchases by Finns will contribute to the increase in revenue from our state budget. Even if the South Estonians stay in Latvia, they will.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U80	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U81	Thank you. The policies adopted under the leadership of the Socialists on alcohol policy, which are still in force, provide for alcohol price policy as one measure. Simply put, the more expensive the alcohol, the less consumed. And the better the health. If strong alcohol is cheap, it's much cheaper and easier to get drunk than that. My question is: have you given up this very important principle of alcohol policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U82	Thank you. Before, I was talking about numbers. In fact, consumption has not decreased due to increased excise duties. As a general rule, it is not possible to regulate the consumption of such goods. There are still other measures that are very good in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U83	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U84	Thank you. Honourable originator waitress! We know that retail alcohol prices have increased somewhat more in recent years than only by higher excise duties. Your draft explanatory memorandum also includes tax receipts forecasts for the following years. And in this light, I ask: do these calculations take into account the fall in the retail prices of alcohol in both groups by excise duty, somewhat less or rather more? There has certainly also been an increase in prices in the air, and retailers, or even importers, may slightly reduce their margin. To what extent has the fall in "end-user" prices been taken into account in these calculations? That's not exactly what you read in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U85	Thank you. The part of the margin is not included. As I said, conservative, cautious calculations have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U86	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U87	Thank you. I am already used to it that neither the previous government nor the current government want to be very responsible for what they have done. And if that helps you in any way, I suppose I'm willing to take responsibility for what you've done. But if it were really the case that the Reform Party was already responsible for everything, then it would be pretty absurd that even now, after the downsizing, the rate of excise duty on beer would be more than one and a half times higher than during the rule of the Reform Party. So there's some kind of logic flaw in this design. But don't get me wrong, I'm absolutely not attacking you. I say this is a step in the right direction. I do not want to criticise, but to honestly debate and understand what considerations you had. And that's why I'm asking you, was there any options on the table that would add money to the budget? At the moment, 12 million will go out for one year, and in the next year, it will come back for another 12 million. Were there any options that would actually bring more money into the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U88	Thank you. As I said, the calculations we've come here with are cautious, conservative. It is also the result of a political agreement. That's my whole answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U89	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You said that alcohol excise began to grow during the previous government, during the rule of the Reform Party. What is your statement based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U91	Thank you. Here the word has gone on its own journey. I was just talking about the excise duty that started the excise race. In my opinion, the reform party's government was at stake in raising excise duties on fuel. I was talking about excise duties in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U92	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U93	Thank you. Very respectable waitress! I, too, agree that this is a step in the right direction, but with the wrong leg. Sober analysis and comprehension are lacking; it has been replaced by a political agreement. I therefore also draw attention to the next draft pending before the Riigikogu, which is clearly more justified, clearly more analysed. Indeed, the political agreement has already become synonymous with the 'design for development', in my opinion it should not be that way. My question is about that, too. I want confirmation from you, do you agree with me that the alcohol border trade started in 2017 and not in 2015 or 2016? It would not be easier to answer, then I say again: in 2016, the share of border trade was 6%, in 2017 the share of border trade was 27%.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U94	Thank you. I'm still looking at it as the whole picture. Started with all the fuel, and the rest came up. Fuel excise created a pre-requisite for Latvia's trip, and then it followed that if you have to go to Latvia, you'd better go there after two or three items. I still think it all started with an increase in excise duties on fuel.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U95	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U96	Thank you. Well, your opinion, of course, has so far not been confirmed by the fact that alcohol started going to Latvia because there was cheaper fuel before. But you have, I understand, taken the position that a short answer is a good answer. You do not, in principle, open the content and do not answer the content. I'll give you one more chance, though. You are always talking about a political agreement, but then you will also talk about how this political agreement came about. Vodka is now proportionally cheaper than lean alcohol. And it also means that both Jüri Ratas and Sven Sester had to withdraw from their former principle that excise duty should be significantly increased. Whose proposal was it that we now agreed on 25%? I will give you an opportunity to speak now about how this political agreement came about if you do not want to rely on analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U97	Thank you. I'm just saying, in answer, it's a good thing if one group of merchandise is completely zeroed out, if you go to Latvia for strong alcohol and vodka, it won't pay. And in Estonia, the price war between supermarket chains is actually about to begin. When Lidl enters retail trade, it is likely to lower food prices in Estonia. It doesn't make sense to go to Latvia for just one or two bags of beer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U98	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U99	Good waitress! Several people have already asked their questions and received the answer that this is a political agreement. Maybe there's a way to get to know it somewhere. I really want to understand why this 25% cut in both excise duties. But second of all, I would like to ask you personally this kind of thing. In the long run, we want people to drink alcohol more culturally in Estonia, so that if they drink at all, they will drink lighter. According to your bill, strong alcohol will become relatively cheaper, but this is what causes more problems of both health and cultural behaviour. Why, though, was such a decision made?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U100	Thank you. If you do not like anything about this draft, I will say it once again: it is possible to table your amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U101	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You said there was no point going after two bags of beer. Are you aware that in this very KPMG study, which you referred to in passing, it is said that on average five beer cases are brought along. That's one. Secondly, you have a price in the bill at the Latvian border store, low margins, a beer case costs 12.36. I was looking at current prices in Ainaži and Valkas are available on the Internet, where the price of the same suitcase is estimated at 10.99. And I know that if there is a change, the border inspection shops will be able to reduce their margins. Are you sure that under 12.36 you can't buy a beer case in Ainaži or Valka?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U103	Thank you. We can argue about the prices. I looked at them before I came to this hall: there were all kinds. There were higher prices. I wouldn't open a discussion about that right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U104	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U105	Thank you. I understand you don't want to open a discussion at all, but I'm still trying to develop a discussion. We also have the next item on the draft reduction of excise duties on alcohol, which has been tabled by the Reform Party. Would you please explain why the draft proposed by the coalition is somehow better than the draft proposed by the Reform Party with similar content?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U106	Thank you. Why is it better? Well, the coalition also looked at the Reform Party bill, but decided to come up with his bill. Made his calculations, his analyses. I liked that Aivar Sõerd actually said the same thing in the business paper, I think, that their party has submitted exactly the same bill. The only difference between the draft is that the Reform Party would like some other percentages, everything else being the same. So I think the Reform Party could also support our draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U107	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U108	Thank you, chairman of the meeting. Good waitress! Each decision should be based on a greater purpose. Since this is the first such draft to come out of the government coalition, I ask: what purpose do you have in the coalition agreement will this decision fulfil? Just in case, I'm reminding you of the goals of the coalition agreement that the coalition should have. They are first a family-friendly Estonia, second a cohesive society, third a knowledge-based economy, fourth, effective governance and fifthly a safe, protected state. What purpose does this present draft serve?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U109	Thank you. The coalition agreement also states that the aim is to reduce border trade and thereby bring tax revenues back to the Estonian state budget. This bill serves precisely that purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U110	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U111	Thank you. Well, you won't answer any questions. Try it now! I asked you something else, not what you answered. I asked you, or rather I gave you the opportunity to explain how this agreement was reached, that 25% was the right one. And also that lean alcohol is relatively more expensive than strong alcohol, that strong alcohol may take as much as you want. But I'll ask you another question. So I have two questions. First, please describe how you reached that 25%! You said the coalition's been run. And I'm still gonna ask you the second question. If you now take your draft and we make amendments on it, the content of which is the same as our draft, will you support them? We have adequate and good amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U112	Thank you. This will become clear on the day of the vote in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U113	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U114	Thank you again for the floor. Good waitress! You said that, in fact, the increase in excise duties on fuel in the border trade was triggered, i.e. the low price of fuel in Latvia. Why, then, have you submitted a draft reduction in excise duties on alcohol to reduce border trade and not a draft reduction in excise duties on fuel?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U115	Thank you. As the Minister of Finance has said in the media, excise duties on fuel are also being dealt with. But it requires further impact studies. In any case, the coalition is also working on reducing fuel excise.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U116	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Good Siim! I would simply point out that the difference between this draft you are defending and the draft proposed by the Reform Party is indeed a percentage. The end of border trade still depends on what percentage we add or take out of one excise duty or another. It's not like border trade is gonna end on its own. But I will follow your words: you said that if we do not like something, we will be able to table our amendments. Are you prepared to support these amendments? The content of these proposals can be expected from the forthcoming draft which will be discussed on the next agenda item. If, in essence, we are presenting these amendments today, are you prepared to consider and support them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U118	Thank you. I think that the coalition has a very good draft and, on the contrary, I call on you to support the coalition draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U119	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U120	In addition to the aspects addressed here, which are the behaviour of our southern and northern neighbours, the most important thing is, after all, the behaviour of our own consumers. After all, it will depend on what kind of revenue could be added to the state budget. And we know in our alcohol policy that adults, people with established patterns of consumption, are no longer affected much, but young people can be affected. And for the young, I'm really hurting my heart. When young people become the most financially available spirits in the form of vodka, the harmful effects of alcohol are very great. Has the expected consumer behaviour been analysed and predicted in any way? We know that the previous change during the previous government had unexpected consequences. So how is the consumer going to behave now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U121	Thank you. I think that, when you talk about young people, it will do you good if this race ends at the Latvian border. According to the Conjuncture Institute, the highest percentage of people who travel in Latvia in particular is young people. It's an 18-29 age group. So we're doing them a favor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U122	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It's kind of hard to sit in this hall. Jüri Ratas' previous government, including Jüri Ratas, said that excise duty was increased because of concerns about human health. Now we hear the same thing, still as people are worried about human health on the one hand. But as far as I can remember, according to WHO, in those countries where strong alcohol consumption is high or predominant, health damage is clearly higher. Which Jüri Rata are we supposed to believe? Today you are trying to prove to us that making vodka cheaper than Latvia will benefit us both in health and economic terms. Don't you feel, at this discussion, that if we really want to stop border trade, these percentages need to be brought to the level that actually ends it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U124	Thank you. I've already told you about health. The increase in excise duty did not bring the expected health benefits. There's been a lot of talk about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U125	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U126	Thank you. If you are so convinced that this is a good draft and you call on the opposition to support it, do you not think that you could also justify why it is a good draft and answer the questions? I repeat my question. Please select one of these five priorities and tell us what this bill is for. A family-friendly Estonia, a cohesive society, a knowledge-based economy, effective governance, a safe, protected state, which of these goals is related to this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U127	Thank you. And I repeat my reply that the aim is to reduce border trade.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U128	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I kind of like short answers, I think it's super good. But it's especially good how short the answer is. Maybe we'll try to achieve it somehow. I heard your answer to Mr Vilja Thomas's question. You said that price is not the main factor that affects consumer behaviour, that it can be influenced by other measures. Why don't you name some of the other measures you've been thinking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U130	Thank you. I told Mrs Toomas that raising the price has not helped to reduce drinking. That was the answer I said in my rural language. I'll just go over it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U131	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U132	Thank you. Good waitress! I understand, and you also said in the Commission that this 25% is a political decision. All decisions should be justified by something. Neither today nor in the Commission has it turned out what your justification is. The reason seems to be just that you just thought and thought so. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U133	It's not like that. I told you, it turned out from the survey that the limit from which shopping is to be considered is EUR 2 per box of beer. And according to our bill, we'll get to that. And on the other hand, the goal is to create the lowest possible minus for the state budget. These were two aspects.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U134	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U135	Thank you. Good Siim! I believe that, thanks to the experience of the private sector, you have such an attitude that you want to be extremely effective on the remote and respond quickly. And sometimes it's enjoyable. We've seen waitresses here who tend to enjoy their own voice so much that the answers stretch to several minutes. But today, it's been a little too short. Why don't you try and explain? I repeat my question. Due to the order in which the drafts are processed in today's sitting, we have the opportunity to support your draft. However, I will ask again whether you are also prepared to support the amendments tabled by the opposition. Their content can be expected from the next item on the agenda. I think a lot of people in this Chamber are willing to consider supporting your draft, in case...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U136	Thank you, good Kalle! Judging by the length of your question, it's been a long time since you left the private sector. But now to the question. I will not issue any arguments in support of the proposals. It's gonna turn out eventually in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U137	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I think you are wrong about the increase in excise duty and the reduction in alcohol consumption. If you have noticed, a moderate, gradual increase in excise duty has helped to reduce overall drinking. The statistics prove that. Neither one party nor the other party is behind it. You must have overlooked structural changes when talking about a statistical error. They'd be pretty interesting to know. If you've noticed, South Estonia has been hit the most. This is due, on the one hand, to the fact that several dozen country shops have been closed down, but also to the fact that it is good to buy supplies from Latvia. However, general knowledge is that the higher the amount of alcohol at home, the higher the amount of consumption. Do you really think that alcohol duty doesn't affect this at all? Today you are absolutely not prepared to accept that the abolition of border trade means a very vigorous price dynamic.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U139	How was the end? [[There's an answer in the hall.]] Thank you. Once again: as I said before, there are several aspects. Latvia does not only carry alcohol, it also buys fuel and food. We want to lower the price of strong alcohol to such an extent that the idea of going to Latvia disappears, and to a slight limit on the price of alcohol, which is already acceptable to people. They'll give up their trips. In addition, as I mentioned, the price war on retail chains selling food products in Estonia is likely to begin and all these prices will fall. I think this is the right time to cut the excise duty. And that 25% is our proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U140	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U141	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you a little different. The KPMG study does not say anywhere that the best option is to reduce part of the excise duty on alcohol by 25%. Where did you get that 25%?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U142	Thank you. I have not argued that this 25% was taken from KPMG's study. I said that this KPMG one was one of the studies that were on the table during the discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U143	It seems that there are no further questions for the speaker. I would then like to ask for a presentation by the committee of the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Aivar Koka.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U144	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 30 May, the Monetary Commission discussed draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Isamaa Group, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Estonian Central Party 30. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Heidi Vessel, Head of the Department of Fiscal Policy, Kadri Kloos, and Martin Helme, Minister of Finance. A proper discussion took place in the Commission. Very many questions were asked, and most of them, I hope, were also answered. At the same time, there were questions to which the answers were a little incomplete, as well as questions whose written answers should arrive today and tomorrow. We decided that tomorrow, all interested parties and their umbrella organisations will be invited to the Commission to analyse both drafts, as well as what will be discussed next. Let's discuss and analyze together what effect certain percentages might have. The Commission also took procedural decisions: to send the draft to the first reading by today's date and to set the deadline for the speaker and the amendments before you at 5.15 p.m. on Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U145	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said that there were many questions in the Commission about this draft, some of them were answered, some were not received and answers would come later. Here's my question. The previous waitress said that, hopefully, the change of law will result in an increase in the number of Finnish tourists in Estonia and a return to work, which allegedly or actually closed down. Did the Commission receive any answers to these questions? And if you didn't, what's your assessment? Will the number of Finnish tourists increase? If it does, how much and what about these country shops anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U147	Thank you for a very good question. On the day that this issue was discussed in the Commission, nothing was yet known about the coalition agreement of the new Finnish government. In today's news, you can all read that in Finland excise duties on alcohol will be increased in the coming years, and another 50 million additional money is expected to be paid into the budget. The excise policy under this draft should help to ensure that Finns may start buying alcohol from us again and that the country receives excise money better. If anyone asks about Latvia, I met two ministers and some Members of Parliament in Latvia on Friday. Their first emotion was that maybe they should be humiliated. But when we were talking about our 25% reduction, they realized that the price of beer would not fall below their own, and their discussion is now limited to whether or not the excise reduction scheduled for 1 March will come. This decision has not been taken at government level in Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U148	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I've known you for a very long time as the kind of person who involves different parties in the discussion of the topics wants to discuss everything thoroughly. Has the Committee on Monetary Affairs referred this draft to the Committee on Social Affairs to ask for an opinion? It is quite clear that this will also have an impact on public health. Unfortunately, we did not have that in this week's work schedule. Or do you not consider it necessary at all because you think that there is absolutely no contact with social and health issues? I just don't think you think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U150	Thank you for a very good question. Tomorrow we will have a debate in the Commission and a representative of the Institute for Health Development and representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs will be invited.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U151	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U152	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The previous waitress either did not know what to do or did not want to answer the questions as the initiator's representative. Maybe as a representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you can help. Here a few words were given that the forecast for tax revenue drawn up by the Ministry of Finance offers €12 million by 2019 and €3 million for each of the next four years. Latvia can cancel the planned increases for next year, as you pointed out from your contacts. Has the Ministry of Finance made such a decision in view of the forecast submitted to you? In general, in what way does Latvia's decision affect the assumptions listed in your draft and, consequently, in what way does it affect our receipts?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U153	Thank you. Good Evgeny, I hope this bill wasn't done the way it was done a few years ago, in which you just said, along with your officials, that excise duty should be increased. And today, we need to make more sense of border trade, the damage of which is much greater than the damage caused by the purchase of alcohol from Latvia alone. When I drove to Latvia, I saw Riga's Estonian cars at all kinds of shops. One thing affects another. But I can say so much in this debate that it is now clear that, although it was scared that excise duties would fall in Finland too, in fact excise duties are likely to rise there. And the discussion took into account the option that excise duties would not fall on 1 March in Latvia. In the case of the numbers that are written, this option has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U154	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U155	Honourable waitress! You mentioned here that some of the questions remained unanswered in the Commission. Would you please tell me what the questions were?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U156	More was requested to analyse the content of this draft as well as the next draft to be discussed, to assess the impact of the decisions they provide. But it is clear that the Estonian state does not have such knowledge at the moment. In time, however, taxes have been raised and it is known that after 3 to 6 months, the prices of alcohol have risen in shops. We don't know exactly how much supplies merchants have bought in their stores. We will certainly get some answers tomorrow, and then perhaps it will become clearer when we can expect the border trade to subside. One aspect is whether they are going to buy anything, the other facet is the cost of driving there, and the third is the impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U157	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U158	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You probably didn't listen to my question very carefully. It is natural that representatives of the Commission's ministry, officials and directors of agencies are invited. This is the work of every committee. My question was whether the Committee on Monetary Affairs had proposed to the Committee on Social Affairs of the Riigikogu to have a joint hearing or whether it would simply ask for the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs. This is Parliament's good practice, which encourages cooperation between committees. I remember that in the previous composition, you did this very often. I would like to remind you that this first question does not go out of your mind that in 2016, 2017 and 2018 the Minister of Finance was the representative of the IRL and then the representative of the Fatherland. Have you submitted such a proposal to the Committee on Social Affairs, or are you still planning to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U159	Thank you for a good question. I have to shake the ashes on my head and say I haven't. But we can correct this mistake and offer you the opportunity to attend our committee meeting tomorrow or Thursday. Thursday, I checked, I don't think the Social Affairs Committee has a meeting planned. You may attend our hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U160	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U161	I actually asked the same question in the Commission. When we read the explanatory memorandum, we can see that the negative effects we will definitely get. The explanatory memorandum states that the impact on the economy as a whole does not matter. But for the time being, excise revenue is decreasing and cheap alcohol is more available. With regard to the positive effects, the explanatory memorandum states that this may be reflected in the reduction of border trade. I understand that the explanatory statement on the positive side is skeptical. In November, when assessing the draft initiated by the Group of the Tõniste Reform Party, Toomas said in a clear way that the draft of the Reform Party, under which excise duty would be reduced to the level of February 2017, would not significantly affect border trade, but would reduce revenue from the state budget and thus not be supported by the government. Why are we doing a thing where we can definitely get the negative effects, positive is a question mark? The previous Minister of Finance has estimated that there will be no positive impact, border trade will not decrease, but revenue from the state budget will decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U162	Thank you for a very good question, Riina. What can I tell you? Everyone in this hall will understand that border trade is taking place. And that's what we enjoyed for a long time when the Finns went shopping for us. At present, four groups of the Riigikogu have initiated different drafts in order to put a stop to border trade. I believe that no one is asking me today whether I believe that border trade will completely disappear as a result of the change in alcohol excise duties. I can say that in January, I handed over a similar bill in this very hall, which proposed 5% higher excise duty than the excise duty in Latvia that rose from 1 March this year. We thought this was one of the ways to stop border trade. I have told this story that when this problem was discussed two years ago, I drew a picture that I showed some politicians in this Chamber. At some point we had a forest where there was also a visible goal: the road to Latvia. But by raising these excise duties, we actually built a four-line road. And digging it isn't easy. In America, a mayor had a major highway cut in the 1960s to drive all the cars through a town two kilometers away. He's got his town fixed. Our problem is not that simple, the situation is certainly more complicated. If we finally cut the excise duty at the same time next year, we'll see if it has any pluses or minuses. The pros are most likely to be greater than today's expected cons.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U163	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U164	Thank you. Dear waitress, As Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you will probably not be surprised that excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, as well as gambling tax, are the revenues that make up the budget for cultural capital. Reducing alcohol duty, or one of these inputs, will also have an inevitable impact on the benefits that cultural capital can provide. How thoroughly have you analysed what happens to the proceeds of cultural capital? And what measures have you planned to prevent cultural and sports people who are often dependent on cultural capital from failing to do their own events and other things?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U165	Thank you for a very good question. I dare tell you that was the subject that was discussed. It was on the table. But maybe this bill has been brought to this Riigikogu hall a little more quickly. In three or four months, we'll see the effect of what it really is. However, if necessary, the debate on the state budget will find the resources to ensure that those receiving support from cultural capital today do not lose their funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U166	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U167	Thank you. Control of border trade is necessary and obviously no one in this Chamber is arguing against it. Unfortunately, problems in the world are mostly complex. If, according to the draft, we now influence the Treasury in a positive direction, hopefully, it will actually affect consumer behaviour. My question is, how does it affect it? Has it been analysed and forecasted? And yet my concern is the consumption habits of young people: if I don't ask for it only in connection with border trade, for example, will the strong alcohol called vodka change in Tallinn stores? What consequences can we really expect for public health and young people's behavior?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U168	Thank you. We should start over, or start over, with alcohol consumption or non - consumption starting at home. Whether the country raises its excise duty this way or that way is less effective. I don't know, I have three daughters and three sons-in-laws at home, we don't drink alcohol, be it the price of vodka, the second or third. But now the situation is that our people are going to buy alcohol from Latvia, pay all taxes there, all tax money goes there. And if our people need to treat health, if we need to guarantee the income side of the health insurance fund, then the Estonian state will actually pay from somewhere else to be able to pay for medicines or treatment. If anyone in this hall thinks that the reduction in this excise duty will cause alcohol consumption in Estonia to grow in excess of no. From the first day of this month, the liquor in the stores is hidden somewhere more behind the closets so that young people do not see it every day. And I may have to say, at this point, thank you for banning this kind of thing. Otherwise, you went to the store, and every day there were shots in the way. If you went without a car, maybe that was the problem. I don't believe it, and I'm not afraid of it. And once again, everything starts at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U169	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U170	Thank you. I am pleased to hear that you have discussed somewhere that culture and sport should not be hit as a result of this legislative amendment. But would you mind telling me what you're forecasting? How much can cultural capital lose its income, and what would you do then? Are you prepared to open the Law on Cultural Capital and/or to increase the tax on gambling or tobacco excise to compensate for the outstanding amounts of alcohol duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U171	To give you an honest answer, when I put my hand to my heart, if, according to the explanatory memorandum, there's a forecast minus next year, I don't think that's going to be a minus. If this law were to apply from the new year, it would be negative in the next six months. And if there's this situation you're referring to, that million, two or three will be found. And I really am standing up for sport and culture not to suffer from it. In fact, it is a fool that, at the price of alcohol consumption, we support one, the other or the third necessary action. But such a system has been set up in our country. It is clear that culture and sport are also important for health. People are moving.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U172	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U173	Thank you, good manager. Honourable speaker! I understand that in a rather short time, however, you have tried to negotiate with various interest groups and to analyse some extent the effects. When we're talking about border trade, the number has also sounded like about 50 small village shops have been closed down. Have you had any contact with specific people who have run a small store and shut it down? Do they feel like they're gonna make it if your bill goes through? What's the feedback on the sites? The concern for border trade and small village shops is, in fact, big and all in common.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U174	Thank you. If anyone asks me if these closed shops will be reopened, it must be said with sadness that it is most likely not. Are we gonna save some shops that'll be closed next year? Most likely, yes. When we talked to the owners of the small stores, they thought that what had gotten stuck, they'd get stuck. In order for the store to open, there must be people who go to the store. And if there's a big mall nearby where you can keep more affordable prices, there's nothing to do. As is the case today: on the other side of the border, some, others or third foodstuffs are cheaper. Food products on the Latvian border are also cheaper than in Estonia. So I don't think new shops are going to be this soon, but maybe since the border of Tartu, small shops will not be closed down again. Yeah, I've been talking to small traders, and tomorrow we're gonna have a really big group at the table so we can get a full answer to the questions that are still in the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U175	Looks like the waitress... No, I'm sorry, I think there's a question. Oh, that's what we're talking about. Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U176	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U177	An extra three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U178	Good meeting manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll make a few remarks for the introduction. First, to the drafters. The author of the draft could make the reasons for the draft clearer. If you want support, you can behave politely and respectfully and answer questions. These answers here today were not all polite and respectful. This has always been the case in the Riigikogu, also in relation to opponents. Second comment. I don't drink vodka, I don't drink beer, I don't drink gin, I don't drink longero, so this bill doesn't really concern me personally. I've never been to Latvia either. But now from the contents of this bill. I think most people in this Chamber do not disagree when they say that alcohol consumption is a vice. And if we want to reduce alcohol consumption, then one way to do this is to deal with the price. But this is not the only and certainly not the most important measure. There's been an overreaction in history before. We know that in the 20th century, the law was introduced in quite a number of countries. The consequences were catastrophic. The latest major increase in alcohol duty in 2017 was certainly an overreaction which should have been corrected immediately or quite quickly. It wasn't done. What's the excise? Excise duty is an additional levy on goods whose consumption is harmful to human health, the environment or for any other reason. The price of such goods is artificially increased by means of a tax. In order for these taxes to work, excise duties should rise according to how people's incomes grow, and a little more so that these goods become quietly more expensive, i.e. the impact of the excise duty would exist. Unfortunately, in earlier times, this has not always been done, and in 2017 efforts were made over. Now we're working on correcting mistakes. Today we have two drafts that are trying to deal with this problem. A much discussed KPMG study suggests that to reduce border trade, the price difference for a beer case should be about 2 euros, which can cost 2 euros less in Latvia than in Estonia. Half a liter of 40% vodka: price difference 1 euro. Why is this bill now being proposed a 25% cut in all excise duties? Well, I'm sorry, not all, vodka, beer, ciders and longero-type drinks are on the list. We didn't get the answer to why this choice was made, which is why 25%. The answer was political choice! On which this political choice was based, this response was extremely difficult to obtain and, in fact, it did not quite catch up. This 25% cut will bring the price of vodka in Estonia to more or less the same level as Latvia. The difference is so insignificant, and the price depends essentially on how much the merchant wants to round the price and which way he does it. As I said, in order to reduce border trade, the difference should be 1 euro, we will essentially bring the difference to zero. For me, the question is, why are we lowering the excise duty so much? This too great a humiliation ends with the fact that even if border trade decreases and disappears when prices equalise, it will probably also disappear, but we will lose revenue from the state budget. I recall and everyone in this Chamber probably already knows that the state budget is not radiant; it is, frankly, very sad. Then why are we giving up the profits? I have not received an answer to that. In the case of a beer case, the price difference remains higher than the EUR 2 recommended. Which means shopping stays. They are likely to turn out to be smaller, perhaps no longer going from Tallinn to buy beer in Latvia, but South Estonia will probably remain. The question was why this difference could not be reduced more so that beer would also be bought less or abandoned in Latvia. We have not received an answer to that, either. The answer I heard was so familiar with the Commission, and we heard it in this Chamber too: that was the political choice. Why such a political choice was not justified. The references to KPMG's study are not true, they do not correspond to the fact. It's just a decision. Let's cut it. Why, where, and how, you don't quite understand. Why do we need knowledge?! By listening to this coalition and seeing the latest developments, we have realized that they do not appreciate knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U179	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish to speak. According to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the first reading of the bill 30 has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 5 June at 5.15 p.m. Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic wishes to discuss the written request of 45 members of the Riigikogu in today's session, 'A statement of confidence' by the Minister of the Interior Mart Helmele. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (2) and (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I will add this request to the agenda of today's sitting. This will take place as the last item on the agenda, i.e. after the end of the debate on draft 7, i.e. after the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U180	First reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Act amending the Law on Income Tax, the Social Tax Act and other laws. The rapporteur is Aivar Sõerd, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U181	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is included in the objective of combating border trade. We are discussing essentially the same thing as the previous draft, but if we compare these drafts, we will see that different solutions have been proposed in this draft. And the ways in which solutions have been achieved are also different. We have realised that the problem of border trade does not resolve itself. We will go back in history to 2016, when the previous coalition, with a cluster bill, pushed through major tax changes. Among them was the 70% increase in beer excise duty. And the result was also soon present: the volume of border trade increased to a quarter of the market. Looking back in history, we can see it was like this. Firstly, the denial phase was denied that border trade existed at all, but then it came to the view that there was border trade, but nothing can be done about it. The draft banning this so-called border trade, which is still on the table here, was presented at least three times in the previous Riigikogu. True, the current bill is slightly different. At the end of last year, a proper analysis on a systematic basis, commissioned by the taxpayer association and carried out by KPMG, was made public. KPMG also brought Kantor Emori as a partner. When we listened to the presentation of the previous draft, the question of how these proposed rates were obtained, why it was decided to lower 25% of beer, vodka and ciderries, we did not receive an answer. And exactly that was the case: when we asked in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we were told that this was a political decision. A political decision that was not based on research. However, as I said, the draft currently on the table is based on an analysis prepared by KPMG. This analysis carried out a study in which consumers were first interviewed. It was 500 consumers who were asked what products were mainly purchased from Latvia and what would be the price difference that would lose their interest in buying. 81% of respondents confirmed that they would restrict purchases from neighbouring countries if prices in Estonia were cheaper than today. In the course of the survey, the managers of the retail sector were also interviewed. It was asked whether they would be willing to apply a lower mark-up to return to the sales turnover that had been lost at the border. All major retailers agreed to do this to bring alcohol sales back to Estonian stores from the Latvian border. The input from the buyers and the largest retail chains in Estonia was needed for a model forecast to assess the excise rates at which border trade would be reversed and how this would affect the tax revenues of the Estonian state. The result was, in short, this. 90% of the border trade would disappear if the price difference for the most purchased 0.5 litre bottle was less than EUR 1 and for the beer case less than EUR 2. The summary conclusion of the study was also that the most popular excise goods purchased at the border are beer, which was 79% in the buyer basket. Vodka and other spirits were bought by 45.46% of buyers. The study was conducted in Valka and Ainaži in August 2018. In the study KPMG proposed the rates of excise duty to be lowered, which are also the input to our draft. Compared to the rates in force, we propose 30% reduction for beer excise and 4.3% for strong alcohol. We also asked about prices. If we base our input on the previous draft, the price of the beer case will not fall less than EUR 2. The price reduction will remain at EUR 3. Given that, in fact, there is still room for the border wholesale warehouses to reduce the margin, we can talk about the price of about EUR 10 and 90 cents. If the excise duty were to be reduced by 25%, the price might, at the very least, fall to 13.90. So the price difference is more than 3 euros. Moreover, as regards the KPMG analysis, it was concluded that the main factor for the cessation of border trade was not a mark-up. The price of the most sold products, beer and vodka must be brought into competition with Latvia. In summary, we also have the impact of our draft on the state budget. We are based on the fact that the banning of border trade could bring additional revenue to the state budget of EUR 100 million per year. It includes both additional excise revenue and VAT revenue. But we took such a more conservative view that there is, in fact, elasticity in consumer behaviour. The effect of the change will not be rapid, so we will count on EUR 50 million. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, please support this draft. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U182	There are questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U183	Good manager! Good waitress! You know the bill. Of course, this crazy price race started during the previous government, and unfortunately the results are here. Both of you and we have a goal now to brake it. But explain it to me! Our offer is EUR 12.7 per 100 litres of excise duty, your offer or your offer is EUR 11.3. As an analyst, how much will Latvia's "alcotourism" decrease in the first and second scenarios? And two: how much revenue do we earn in the first and second scenarios, both yours and ours?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U184	Thank you for your question. I can respond in such a way that the study on which our rates are based is based on a survey. And the poll sample was solid enough. In summary: 33% of the drop in excise duty on beer would lead to a price difference between Latvia and Estonia below the level of two euros per bag of beer. This EUR 2 and below is an important limit: 90% of consumers say that going to Latvia will no longer pay. Well, 10% of border trade will probably stay. That's what we know today. By reducing 25%, we would not reach the difference of EUR 2, the difference is still around EUR 3. And beer is bought by 79% in Ainaži and Valka's drivers and bought at once again the survey showed an average of five suitcases. This means that motivation will remain and border trade will not go away in the scale and pace we would like. And, of course, if border trade does not retreat to the desired extent, the objectives of the drafts aimed at excluding border trade will not be met.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U185	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U186	Thank you, President-in-Office. A very honored waitress! During the debate on the previous draft, there was great concern that alcohol consumption among young people would increase. Do you share this concern? If so, what studies does this concern rely on? And isn't the use of cannabis, which continues to develop into drug addiction, growing among young people? I am worried about the health of young people, too, but I think it is more important that the mind poisons play a role.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U187	Thank you for that question. Yes, that is a very correct question in the sense that the practice of dealing with the problem of mind poisons should also be changed. But I'll come back to the alcohol research. The Conjuncture Institute conducts annual surveys of the alcohol market and a survey carried out last year showed that consumption per capita was not reduced in 2017. There was such a small slope. A recent study shows that consumption has slightly decreased, but this figure remains within the limit of a 5% reduction in statistical error. It is clear that while the alcohol imported from Latvia still accounts for a quarter of the alcohol market, Latvia's excise duty rates determine a quarter of the market. This is not normal and border trade is a very serious problem. If we compare it with other countries, it is unprecedented on the Latvian-Estonian border. Finland also has border trade, but as far as I know, Finland has a 5% border trade, but we have 25%. So the situation is serious and I am pleased that at least this is now being dealt with. In the past few years, the problem of border trade was denied, but then it was said that there was nothing to be done. Well, now we've been working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U188	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Border trade will probably never disappear; it will also exist between countries elsewhere in the world. But I remember very well the time in Estonia when border trade with Latvia got off the ground. That was in 2015, when I was a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Perhaps you will also remember when I showed the pictures on the committee what the price of fuel is in Latvia and which one in Estonia. Then I went to that Alko1000 store for the first time, which is the former Estonian border crossing point. So it started in 2015. The following governments have also made these mistakes. It's a good thing we're trying to fix them together now. But what bothers me is that it is very random to go around with figures that show the damage of the Estonian state: 300 million and 400 million, some talk about billions. What is the actual sum? If we lose money, Latvia should win. Isn't that right? How big is the actual loss? How much have we actually lost because of our excise duties? Aivar, you should know that well. Say one likely number, don't talk hundreds of millions here and there! It's supposed to be a really rake-out sum.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U190	Thank you. We are going back to the beginning of the question, to 2015. I went to Valka, too. We had a county visit, parties still make county visits. Then I went to those stores in Valka specifically. It was pretty quiet back then. I've also taken pictures. I put them up on Facebook. It was pretty quiet. Last summer, I went there to collect donations to the Cancer Treatment Fund, and then I got two hours to see what was going on. It was a whole other world, after all! And the numbers also show that. The official records of the Ministry of Finance are that the volume of border trade was 5 to 6%, now 25%, perhaps even more. What's the damage? We know how much damage this is. Let's take last year: 341 million euros of alcohol excise were planned, 230 million were received. But let's put VAT on it too! This EUR 341 million was not an abstract amount, just a prognosis. No, it wasn't! It was in the budget law. And based on that 341 million, plus VAT, the budget included expenditure. And those expenses were made, but no excise duty was collected. That's why you're under budget right now. And let's get some fuel excises that didn't come in, and we'll get some tobacco excises! We will take the forecast and what the actual receipts were, and we will also put VAT on it: in one year minus over EUR 350 million. Yes, the mayor of Valka said that 100 million Latvian countries will lose if border trade disappears. The recent spring forecast of the Ministry of Finance also shows the impact of Latvia's border trade: 95 million. I remember that number. And it was only Latvian border trade, but we also have the same problem at the northern border. So we're talking hundreds of millions of dollars anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U191	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U192	Thank you. Good Aivar! I may have missed something, but I don't think it sounds like the Minister of Finance preferred the same analysis that we did on the basis of our own bill. This is KPMG's study. Please try to talk about why this analysis is better than taking 25% of the political choice out of everything!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U193	Thank you. The political choice is a political choice. There's no analysis. I understood from the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that there is no analysis behind it. Well, one analysis has been reviewed, another analysis has been reviewed, but the solutions proposed in these analyses have not been used. The draft we are discussing here is based on a specific KPMG analysis, which is based on studies. This is due to the research and the factual data obtained from it. The proposals are based on the results of the study. So, in one case, research is behind the proposed rates, in the other case simply political will, political agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U194	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U195	Good answer! Your answer to me was not about the consumption of young people, but about the consumption of alcohol in general. Do you have information on the use of young people, their growth or their decline? And do you really think that a survey of 500 people is enough to make such millions of decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U196	Thank you. I think the poll sample of 500 people is a pretty good sample. And I repeat, in addition to the buyers, there were also interviews with the sales managers of the larger chains. Either way, it's a solid sample. As far as the behaviour of young people is concerned, this is a bit out of the scope of this draft and also out of the context of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This is rather an issue that should be discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. I don't have that information available right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U197	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U198	Good manager! Good waitress! When this crazy alcoral was launched here, we were told about the elasticity of the price. It was out of some kind of American scientist's work. We use this elasticity, we put the excise duty on half or at least significantly higher, and we get a great effect. After that, it became clear that the effect was actually quite the opposite. As we know, the elasticity of beer prices is much lower than that of vodka. But my question to you is, what do you think should be the optimal elasticity of the price of beer? What number could it be, or what range?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U199	I'm embarrassed to answer that question. With this elasticity, we won't get much smarter, let's still look at the reality. When these increases were made in 2017, the first story that followed was that there was no border trade at all. What are you talking about? After that, it was said that nothing could be done to reject it. In fact, a new form of sales emerged at the border. After all, these wholesale stores remind us of the wholesale supply of alcohol. The focus is on a couple, one or two main products: beer and vodka. And if you focus on such a small assortment, and if you have a huge consumer community, you can lower the margins. In addition, of course, these sales warehouses do not require the usual costs that well-equipped shops have to incur. This allows the margin to be brought down and a completely new situation has arisen. These have not been comparable situations. We cannot expect ordinary merchants to be able to compete with supermarkets operating on the basis of such a wholesale warehouse. This is the real situation where we are now. And that's what we're trying to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U200	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You also touched fuel excise. If we look back in history, we will see that the increase in excise duties, both in the case of alcohol and in the case of fuel, has actually begun during the rule of the Reform Party. Now, if the government proposes to lower excise duties on fuel in the autumn, will you support this bill, or will there be a parallel draft reduction of excise duties on fuel from the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U202	Besides excise duties on fuel, we could talk more about gas excise, which the previous coalition raised with great courage and courage: 20% every year. And this is also an important input in production. Gas excise duty does not only affect production, it also affects people who heat their homes with gas. This even affects central heating system operators, as gas is used during peak loads. As for the reduction of excise duties on fuel, please, of course, come out with this bill! But take into account that the balance of changes in alcohol duty should still remain positive: if border trade disappears, we will remain on the plus side, although this plus maybe it is not very large. This is between your bill of 3 million and our bill of 50 million euros. But we'd still be on the plus side. Fuel excise is a slightly different situation. Large consumers of diesel fuel not in Latvia, but in Lithuania and Poland. In the case of fuel, the share of border trade in the total market is still lower than in the case of alcohol. And it's going to be pretty expensive for the state budget to cut that excise duty. It's worth counting on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U203	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U204	Thank you. Good Aivar! This is very positive if the draft is based on such thorough research. Has there also been an analysis of the increase in average alcohol consumption and the direct or indirect damage to the state budget involved? I am thinking of healthcare costs and other direct and indirect costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U205	We have not analysed this directly, but the current situation is more or less known. The previous study showed that consumption increased slightly in 2017, and the latest study shows that it has slightly decreased. But this problem has to be solved. From the point of view of consumption, there is no need for the purchase from Latvia of a large volume of cheap alcohol at the rate of the Latvian excise duty and the introduction into Estonia. It's not working well. Of course, all the other measures that are being dealt with are also very important: restrictions on advertising and restrictions on sales in shops. And the most important thing is to influence health behaviour, to raise people's awareness. There are many different aspects of this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U206	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U207	Thank you. Good bill waitress! Here's the question. During the discussion on the previous item, many of your party associates, who are currently no longer in the Chamber, were seriously concerned that when alcohol duty is reduced by 25%, the patterns of alcohol consumption among many young people will change. They see it as a great threat. I have to admit, I share their view in some ways. You want to lower alcohol duty by 33% more, but I don't see these people in this room asking you these serious questions. My question is this: have you assessed that, if alcohol duty is reduced by 33%, what patterns emerge in young people's behaviour, young people's consumption patterns? Have you analyzed it? Are your colleagues concerned about this bill, too, or are they simply two-faced? Now they're out of the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U208	Thank you for your question. There's a very big difference. When we talk about beer, the previous bill wants to cut the excise duty on this product by 25%, our draft by 33%. But when we talk about strong alcohol, we only want to lower 4.3%, the previous draft of 25%. That's a very big difference. However, the main problem is that the Estonian consumer buys excise goods from Latvia, pays the tax at the rate of the Latvian excise duty, the tax goes to the Latvian budget. But this excise product is consumed in Estonia and the health damage suffered by Estonian residents is borne by us. This is not a normal situation. There's gotta be some way to get border trade under control.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U209	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U210	Thank you. It is very touching to hear a completely unknown question from the EKRE here. There have been claims that the political agreement of a couple of party leaders is more important than questioning 500 people or that elasticity is some sort of number that can be changed by law, and other such issues. Please make it clear to the honourable audience how high excise duty increases consumption, how this mechanism works. That is the basic content of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U211	Thank you. The difference between the two drafts is very clear. We're approaching with differentiation. Optimal rates of excise duty must be established to discourage border trade. And these rates do not necessarily have to fall to the level of those of the neighbouring country, it is enough to leave only a small difference. If this difference is optimal, after all, we have said that it could be about EUR 1 for strong alcohol and EUR 2 for beer bags, then there is no incentive for consumers to go across the border for excise goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U212	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U213	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, When you collected these donations at the Latvian liquor store for two hours, you must have noticed the amounts that people are loading into the car. When you saw that one person was lifting into a car, I don't know, two or three cases of vodka, which is an annual amount per resident in Estonia, did you not have a question, and didn't the black economy flourish? Maybe they buy alcohol for illegal resale.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U214	Thank you. That is a good question, and that is what we asked the tax authorities. Obviously, there is also an aspect of the shadow economy here. Indeed, large quantities are also brought for resale, being brought in organized, so that it goes to tax fraud. If the product with the Latvian tax mark is still recycled and sold with the Estonian tax mark, it is essentially a violation of the Tax Act. But the IRS has too little resources to carry out this kind of big control. But yeah, if you look at what's going on in those stores, they're really gonna be filled with shopping carts. One guy pulls the front, the other pushes the back and gets this stuff in the trunk. Then they come back and go for the next load. And, of course, there are a lot of Finnish customers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U215	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U216	Thank you. Very respectable waitress! In this Chamber, some people continue to find it difficult to understand when and by whom this border trade rally was launched. I ask you to give them lessons in helping with the share of border trade in 2016, for which the Reform Party is also responsible, and how much border trade was in 2017, when these excise changes were made. As I recall, I rely on the data of the Ministry of Finance, and in 2016 the share of border trade was 6% and a year later 27%. What is your estimate of the damage, the loss of tax revenue that these incompetent and simply politically agreed decisions have cost the Estonian state and the taxpayer? How many hundred million have the Estonian state lost in its state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U217	Thank you. I have no data other than the official records of the Ministry of Finance. Everyone gets to know them, they're up in the open. In 2016, the volume of border trade was 5 to 6%. Let's see: in 2017, it had risen to 25%. A specific budgetary loss, well, if you look at the latest economic forecast published by the Ministry of Finance in April this year, you will see that there is 95 million euros of alcohol excise duty missing from border trade, with VAT. But if we look at the forecasts made in 2017 and how much was actually received, we will see that in 2018 hundreds of millions were planned for the budget, which included expenditure, but the full amount of excise duty was not received. This applies solely to the 2018 budget. If we take all the excise duties and we add VAT there, this amount was over EUR 350 million. These are the numbers that have led to this problem being dealt with seriously at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U218	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In your reply, you claimed that lowering 33% of lean alcohol excise duty would have a lower effect on young people's health than a 25% reduction. You explained this by the fact that your bill provides for less excise duty on strong alcohol. Here I read the idea that young people consume considerably more strong alcohol, which I do not want to believe very well. Do you have any research that confirms that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U220	Thank you. First of all, as far as border trade is concerned, we are taking the same lean alcohol: 25% of the market is filled with cheaper lean alcohol than it was before these excise increases. After all, prices in Latvia are cheaper. 25% of the market! Our draft does not want to reduce all excise duties by 33%, but only on beer, wine and products of less than 6%. But in the case of strong alcohol, it's enough to control the border trade or, let's say, the optimal drop is around 4%. That's what the KPMG study tells us. We do not need to lower the price of strong alcohol to Latvia. If Latvia should cancel the increase in the excise duty on strong alcohol, we are not talking about lowering it, then we will have a price of vodka even cheaper than Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U221	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U222	Thank you, dear waitress. It's a pleasure to listen to you! Among other things, in passing, you praised the restrictions on the advertising of alcohol and the restriction on the display of shops, which you voted against on 20 December 2017. It is a pleasure that you have corrected your views towards reasonableness. And I'm sure I'd like to congratulate you on being a good finance man and not sticking your nose in areas you don't know anything about. You said that you do not know how much the adoption of your proposed draft could improve or damage the health of Estonian residents. And in this context, I'm not gonna ask you that either. Doctors' organisations and many others have pointed out that this is a bad decision, but I will not bully you with it. I ask you this: do I have the right impression, financially speaking, that the government's draft is rather supported by strong alcohol producers and that your draft is rather supported by lean alcohol producers? That's the impression I've had. They're both happy, but some are satisfied with one and others are more satisfied with the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U223	Thank you for that question. The manufacturers have waited a long time for something to be done. The previous coalition first denied the problem. There was no border trade at all. That let the IRS go and check this out at all! Then it had to go to the level of the European Union: we agree at European Union level that such a thing will be brought to an end. Then the problem came to pass. But we heard the Finance Minister here say he could really lower, but nothing was done. At least now it's done. As far as the wishes of the producers are concerned, I have so understood that the producers who know this area may also have their own interests, of course, believe that if border trade was caused by increased excise duties, we will not be able to get rid of border trade in a different way than excise duty cuts.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U224	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U225	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! You've been trying to make yourself look like a financial guru over the years. My question is simple. We are dealing here today with alcohol, tobacco and fuel. What are the differences between the receipts and forecasts of excise duties on tobacco? Can you tell us what the forecast for the collection of excise duty on alternative tobacco products was and what it is in reality? And what could be the reason for the discrepancy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U226	Thanks, this bill doesn't deal with room excise, and I don't have any numbers on it. I'm not gonna take any chances coming out of my head with any numbers. But I do know that there are problems with receipts and forecasts for these excise duties as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U227	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U228	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! As a new member of the Riigikogu, I have such a question. I see that the issue of alcohol excise takes a great deal of Parliament's working time and causes a lot of excitement for older people. You are a long-standing finance specialist, how important do you think this is for the competitiveness of the Estonian economy? Is that the most important thing in the first three, the top ten? How important is this, what are we discussing here today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U229	Border trade has a number of negative aspects. We can also talk about this in the context of economic competition. However, the main problem that we are solving is that the Estonian consumer buys excise goods from Latvia, buys it by paying a tax at the Latvian rate, and the tax is paid to the Latvian budget. An Estonian person consumes this stuff in Estonia. This is not a normal situation. And when we talk about border trade in other countries, yes, there is, of course, border trade on the border of Latvia and Estonia, you will not find anywhere else in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U230	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U231	Thank you. There have been several statements here which are the most guilty here and when this border trade started. We can keep looking for the culprit. But I want to point out how much diesel fuel costs in gas stations right now. Your plan for that year was to increase the excise duty on diesel, and the previous government canceled it. Do you congratulate the previous government for not raising the excise duty on diesel?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U232	The subject of excise duty on diesel is out of the scope of this draft. Hindu you can view the just toss the internet, and come prices immediately in advance. In the last week, prices on the world oil market have been in a small decline, but whether the impact on the consumer will also reach out to them can not be very certain. But when it comes to looking for the guilty, the facts speak for themselves. In 2016, the share of border trade at the Ministry of Finance was 5 to 6%. That's the extent of it. Now we've reached 27%. This is a real situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U233	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U234	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I read in the title that this is a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Law on Income Tax and the Social Tax Act and other laws. So tobacco excise is also a subject. You have just indicated that, as far as you know, there are problems in this area. I might be helping you. Is the taxation of 2 000 percent of e-cigarette fluid excise one of these problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U235	Thank you. Yeah, the title of the bill covers different excises, but it's just a title. The content of the draft relates to excise duties on alcohol, nothing else.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U236	Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U237	Thank you. First of all, I didn't really get an answer to my previous question. I understand that neither do you have any research into the impact of lowering alcohol excise duties on young people's health and behaviour. But as one of the previous speakers said, you are more of an economic man, a monetary guru. So I have a question for you. If I compare these two drafts with what the Riigikogu discussed earlier, and what we are currently discussing, then it is clear from your draft that an additional 50 million could be paid into the state budget in the first year and about 100 million in the following years. In this second draft, these forecasts are much more modest. In the first year, the minus is seen, and in the following years, there will be no plus. Where do these differences come from? If I mathematically compare these numbers, which are projected, then the differences are still multiples. What is the source of this fluctuations in forecasts? Have you miscalculated?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U238	Thank you. I haven't miscalculated. Compared to the drafts we started in the previous term, they were different. KPMG's study we're using for the first time. The previous drafts simply provided for lower rates to be set at the beginning of 2017, and the impact was also to be different. But now I can say so much that we also used the conclusions drawn by KPMG in providing the state budget impact. They came up with these numbers. However, as regards the other studies you asked for, which could also address how these two drafts could affect health behaviour, the Government's draft came up only recently. Today is the first reading, and there will be long discussions between the first and second readings. We will certainly also be doing analyses, I hope that we can really do them, what our draft is and what the impact of the previous draft will be on the wider, not just their fiscal impact on the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U239	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U240	Thank you! I still, good Aivar, couldn't answer my question. You started to remember history when you answered. Do I have the right impression that it is that the producers of wine, the producers of strong alcohol and the importers said that the Reform Party's plan does not lose border trade, that this is a bad plan? And they think you need a tax break and you don't need to touch excise? And the brewers said no-no, that's a very good plan, and I'm sure you have to make it happen? And now that it became clear that, at the request of a coalition partner, a relatively sharp reduction in the excise duty on strong alcohol was introduced in the government's plan, it is as if a situation has arisen where some alcohol producers are more friends of the government and others are friends of the Reform Party. Is this impression correct, and if it seems to me that it is, what criteria have you chosen to be your friend?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U241	Thank you for that question. I will try to answer that, the question is clear and clear. Of course, if one draft provides for a reduction of 25% in excise duty on beer and 25% in heavy alcohol, producers will feel the same way. If, according to the second draft, the excise duty on lean beer was reduced by 33% and strong alcohol by 4,3%, this would be a different situation for producers. But we did not narrowly take into account the producer aspect. We were based on a study aimed at achieving a situation in which we could get rid of border trade. And we'll get rid of the border trade if the buyers lose their motivation to go to Valka or Ainaži or further to Latvia. Motivation will disappear if the price difference disappears or if the price difference decreases to an optimal level. That's what we came from. We did not have a basic aspect of the producer aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U242	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U243	Hello, good waitress! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I ask: if you do not find support for the proposal you are presenting for further consideration, will you also consider supporting the draft Government Coalition? The goal is the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U244	Thank you. I'm here, and I'm still trying to make sure our bill is supported. And I think it might find support because it's a good bill. But indeed, we still have discussions ahead of us. We will have a longer discussion with market participants and other stakeholders in the Committee on Monetary Affairs tomorrow. Maybe we can get new knowledge, new wisdom. I hope that we will hear new facts and arguments, which are all the more supportive of the draft we are debating.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U245	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. Oh, I'm sorry! I won't open it yet. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission of the Governing Commission, will give us an overview first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U246	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu, for your opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed at its meeting on 30 May the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Law on the amendment of the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws. We had also invited Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Heidi Vessel, Chief Specialist of the same department, and Kadri Klaose, analyst of the Fiscal Policy Department. Martin Helme was also present at the beginning of the debate, who was able to answer the questions. So the Members of the Commission were able to ask questions and they also received, I think, exhaustive answers in most of them. The Commission took procedural decisions: to send the draft to first reading by today's date, to appoint a speaker in front of you and the deadline for the amendments on Wednesday 5.15 p.m. of this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U247	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over to the Management Board of the Riigikogu the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative Monetary Wharf to reject the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Act amending the Law on Income Tax, the Social Tax Act and other laws at first reading, as one such draft already exists. For the sake of integrity, we will proceed with a single bill and the coalition wishes to process its own draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U249	Thank you. I have adopted the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the bill bearing number 7. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I put it... [[A voice from the hall.]] I'm sorry! I don't notice any requests today. Let's hope it doesn't happen again. Mr. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U250	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, It would be in the interest of integrity to initiate a debate before making a decision. And we saw very little of this debate today. I've never seen an unsqueaky non-response in my history as it was here today. In the sense that the answers were emphatically short, but also emphatically nonexistent. The respondent, who otherwise seems to be a decent person, did not even try to give the impression that he was communicating with his colleagues and dealing with legislation. But now I'm talking about this bill. This remark was rather about the procedure of the previous draft. First of all, the end of border trade is the purpose of this bill, but it is not the end itself, not the end itself. Border trade is a problem if it goes too far if it results in an increase in drinking and damage to the economy. This was caused by the previous government's decision at the end of 2016 to drastically increase the excise duty on lean alcohol: 70% at once. The consequences were predictable, and that is exactly what happened. I'm talking a little bit about the rankings that Estonia has received. According to my observations, Estonia was the country with the fastest reduction in alcohol consumption between 2007 and 2016 from those with considerable statistics. I mean, alcohol policy worked, society's attitudes worked. That's until this bill came in. And on this point, I have to protect Evgeny Ossinovski several times a day who sent someone to his grids. The Minister of Finance is responsible for the taxes. But we did not have the Minister of Finance in charge when the Minister of Social Affairs took up a matter of linear emphasis and combating drinking across the border with tax increases. A lot has been said here about border trade: who started it? From my head, I say that border trade increased five or six times, depending on what years we look at. And there's a very big difference between who did what. The share of cross-border trade is rather close to the optimal, normal communication between countries, but if this percentage is a quarter or a third, as we have seen, it is over the border, and that means that some balance is out of place. That is exactly what has happened. After 10 years of drinking, from then on, things changed. For two years, drinking has not decreased. And the reason I don't know why it's supposed to sound so crazy here today is because cheap booze is pouring on. We have excise duty across the border. This has been achieved by the government. Now, this has been about our manufacturers and your manufacturers. In fact, it is only a different strategy. Beer producers are in a separate Union, and they are based on a strategy that they also get their money from the border, but they criticise stupidity and say it. Unfortunately, strong alcohol producers have followed a different strategy. They wrote a long article: double praise to the government at the moment when the whole market was turned upside down and the people roamed between Latvia. This is not a normal situation. No citizen should put it that way, even if their products were made in such a way that lean alcohol was made more expensive. Such lobby was irresponsible. There's a difference. I do not see that beer producers suffer financial losses by going to Valka to buy their goods at a low price wholesale. There are even queues and small sales costs. That's the main thing. The decrease in drinking stopped because it started to flow with cheap alcohol and the average price on the market probably fell. We asked for these data, we expect the Ministry of Finance to specify them, but I really rely on the Institute of Economics and KPMG's research. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U251	Yes, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U252	Now, what good ranking do we have? It is undoubtedly an excise duty on lean alcohol compared to income or purchasing power. We are probably European champions in this, but probably also world champions. Well, it may be that in Norway this excise is even higher as a ratio, but I think it's going to have a higher purchasing power there. What makes us the hardest? We have the most expensive beer compared to vodka. This is the real mechanism of all of this, and this is the problem that we are solving. If you have created a problem in the same way, this is confirmed by statistics and studies, then it cannot be reversed in the same way by proportionally reducing excise duty. That's the only idea. But for God's sake, this relationship doesn't go to a place that's already out of place. So it doesn't go back to a place that's already out of place. And that's what we're arguing about. In any case, we would agree to reducing excise duties on alcohol if this were the right step in the right direction. But what the government is offering is the right step in the wrong direction and it rather perpetuates the problem: the problem of consumption, the problem of market intervention. Even your bill's explanatory statement says beer border trade stays, vodka's ending. Well, where's the logic? It has been said about the same price of vodka, but in fact, after the decisions made in Latvia, Estonia's excise duty on wine becomes lower. Where's the logic? We've got bigger purchasing power. Do we want the Latvians to start shopping for us and accept it because Estonians get more cheap vodka? This does not make sense to alcohol policy, and I am quite surprised that the Socats did not take the floor on this issue either. And so it is, broadly speaking, that the multiple border trade has its own mechanism, its own consequence, i.e. the cessation of alcohol consumption. And when we go to fix it, we should go the same way. We need to lower the excise duty on lean alcohol more, a little bit more the excise duty on strong alcohol, but not lower than in Latvia. Latvia's low excise duty is economically sound for their average standard of living and is good for the economy, public health and the budget. Our government also wronged the fact that Latvians weren't dealt with and got hit in the nose. From the Latvians, I've understood that, they get hit in the nose for the third time. Twice, Latvian ministers have demonstrated their gratitude to the Estonian Government for its implementation of their budget. Twice, two ministers have said so! Now they say, hoo, they're going to lower the accent, we're going to shoot down. You see, it is not in the interests of the countries, of public health or of the economy that we do not negotiate with our neighbour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U253	Thank you. Do the representatives of the political groups still have a wish to speak? No, it's not. The negotiations are over. The Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the 7 SE and we will vote. I am voting on the motion tabled by the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject Bill No 7 initiated by the Group of the Reform Party. Please state your position and vote. There are 61 in favour of rejection, 32 against, no abstentions. Bill number 7 has been rejected and is out of procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, Now I will take a Bureau break of 20 minutes so that the members of the coalition parties can also get acquainted with the text of the motion of censure. You can find the text back there on the shelf.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U254	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the President has ended. Let's keep going. The next item is the publication of censure on the Minister for the Interior. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly present the procedure for this item. First, the representative of the initiators of mistrust will speak for up to 20 minutes, then the minister will speak, as well as for up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask the Minister up to two oral questions. Representatives of the political groups will be able to take part in the negotiations and will be the first to speak on behalf of the political groups whose members are the initiators of censure, if they wish to speak. A final vote will take place at the end of the debate. Voting is public and a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required to express censure. We can go to this item on the agenda. Kaja Kallas, as the representative of the prosecutors of mistrust, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U255	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, 45 members of the Riigikogu have submitted a motion of distrust, and I will briefly talk about what this is about. Since taking office of the government and, unfortunately, before that, the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme has been able to damage the reputation of the Estonian state and the reputation of the authorities under its authority, and has shown by his actions that he does not understand the responsibility attached to the position of member of the government. Mart Helme has verbally attacked and humiliated women, social workers, scientists, the press, the rule of law from the position of a member of the government. Here are more specific reasons why Mart Helme is not suited to the duties of the Minister of the Interior. Firstly, because when the suspicions of domestic violence against Minister Marti Kuusik became clear and a criminal case was initiated, the Minister of the Interior announced at a press conference in the government on 2 May: 'Well, we have investigated these sources for our part and we have made it clear that we know even their names actually, not through the police, but so-called members of our local party, well, Rakvere is a small town that knows who is spreading these rumours. " It was a threat to all those people who had come to the press or the police with their knowledge. If, in a normal situation, the Minister of the Interior, whose administration is the violence in the relationship, should have called on all the people who knew something about this case to come forward and testify in order to find out the truth in this matter, the Minister of the Interior instead began threatening these people. Such action by the Minister of the Interior is unacceptable. Preventing close relationship violence is one of the priorities of the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and as Minister of Internal Affairs, the person who ridicules domestic violence cannot continue. Secondly, as Deputy Prime Minister, Mart Helme has damaged Estonia's allies, security and national interests, using the sign of white supremacy as a minister during the oath and inviting Estonia and adopting the Marine Le Pen here, whose views on Russia do not match Estonia's current foreign policy. As a result of these steps, Estonia has been embellished in foreign media as a country with a right-wing, racist and xenophobic government, and this has resulted in reputational damage. This is even acknowledged by members of the government coalition. For example, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik said in ETV on 16 May: 'This Le Pen visit to Estonia was extremely regrettable. I fully agree that the fact that the members of the government accepted him - this led to a higher level of this visit. [---] So there is obviously reputational damage to Estonia here, it cannot be over or around it. ' Although all the foreign media reflected this sign, Mart Helme announced in the Question Time of the Riigikogu that he did not understand, does not admit, does not apologize, the liberals do not allow themselves to prescribe what can and cannot be prescribed. However, the EKRE apologized to Marine Le Pen for using this mark. While in the government, Mart Helme has continued to favour the extreme right rhetoric of his party associates as the chairman of the party. Such rhetoric is internationally detrimental to Estonia's reputation and our allied relations. Third, at the press conference held on 2 May, the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme described the President of the Republic of Estonia as an emotionally tipped woman and insulted both the President and women in general with his comments. Moreover, on 19 May, Mart Helme, explaining why Kert Kingo was appointed, said: "... Within the same Marti Kuusik affair, all kinds of feminists and non-feminists shouted and blamed our party for not categorically condemning violence against women. That we're supporters of violence against women, but then we thought, well, we'll play you a snip and show you that we're putting a woman Marti Kuusik as a minister. [[...]] And then squeal. " Mart Helme, as a member of the government, is making it a common practice for women to use lowly words. Fourthly, on 14 May, Mart Helme announced that he had a meeting on money laundering, where he was allegedly told: 'The coalitions of the Reform Party, the Socialists and the Fatherland have allowed hundreds of billions of rubles, dollars, euros to be washed through Estonian banks. [[...]] This thing is really, really bad. ' Prime Minister Jüri Ratas then said: 'I, too, have received various reviews from the police and border guards, as well as from the Financial Supervision Authority. I have no example, no doubt that one party, another party or third party in Estonia would have anything to do with this. These claims are not true. " Thus, the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, has knowingly lied as a member of the government. Fifthly, Mart Helme has undertaken a systematic attack on journalists. So Mart Helme, on ETV's "First Studio," announced that ERR's American correspondent Maria-Ann Rohemäe "has cheated on us and lied to us for two and a half years." When the members of the Riigikogu asked about this, the Minister of the Interior was not prepared to apologize for his words and to take them back in Question Time of the Riigikogu. Sixthly, on the day of the elections to the European Parliament, Mart Helme called for a vote in favour of the EKRE. In doing so, he violated § 168 of the Penal Code, according to which active electoral agitation is prohibited on election day. The Minister of the Interior, who must be aware of the laws applicable to politicians, decided to break the law and put the police in his administration in a difficult position, because they have to deal with the violation of the law by the Minister of the Interior. In addition, Mart Helme has already insulted scientists by saying of scientists: 'Stupid people, you don't know anything. Stupid people, what to do! ' Due to damage to Estonia's reputation, threats to Estonia's security, persistent insult to various social groups, incitement to hatred and great pressure from the public, the Minister of the Interior should have resigned by now. This has been the case in Estonia's political culture in the past. However, insofar as this has not happened, there is a lack of confidence in Mart Helme. The Minister of the Republic of Estonia is not suitable for a person who is lying, breaking the law, undermining women, threatening both journalists and potential witnesses by abuse of his office, whose behaviour and statements undermine Estonia's allies and security, and who clearly do not understand the responsibility of being a minister. In view of the above, we express our mistrust to the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Good members of the coalition! I know that there are many among you who do not consider or support the Minister's action to be right. If you do not support this motion of censure or, for example, decide not to vote, you say that you consider this to be right and appropriate to the Minister. But if you do not support this course of action at heart, consider whether you are making a sacrifice of your conscience to the health of the coalition! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U256	Thank you. Peter Ernits, is there a procedural question? No, it's not. Then we'll move on. Now the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helm, has the opportunity and the right to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U257	Dear Riigikogu! I'll start with where the previous speaker ended up out of conscience. Conscience can't be in the right place if there's so much stupidity and lies written together as in this mistrust. I'd say this whole distrust text is like a bad essay. It should be directed against the Reform Party itself. For nothing can be done if you have behaved badly in politics, cheated people for 17 years, and created a situation where many people do not want to see you in power and want to see a different coalition in power, then you should distrust yourself. But we come to the text of this motion of distrust. So let's read as the children read, on the fingers I pulled the saw into my fingers, so my fingers are a little patched, one, two, three, and then there's a lot. Okay. First, Marti Kuusik. This charge has collapsed today, there is no evidence, there are no witnesses. What have I approved? That the presumption of innocence applies exclusively to everyone in the Republic of Estonia. The crucifixion of people based on journalistic slander has unfortunately become a frequent anno Domini 2019 in the Republic of Estonia. There has been no illegal surveillance, so this accusation is completely unfounded and wrong. Allied relations. Marine Le Pen won the Euro Parliament elections, the Marine Le Pen is currently France's most popular politician. Why don't you tell him about allies if he's gonna be president? Do we write down France as an ally of Estonia in this case? You could feel a little chess game, and you could see a few moves in politics. As far as damage to Estonia abroad and in foreign media is concerned, I would say that it is quite obvious that information blackening Estonia's red pages has been distributed primarily from Estonia. And there aren't a lot of suspects, they can count one hand on the fingers. All right. Violence against women. But do you want me to read you something about the violence against women that has come from a prominent politician of your party? One of your prominent politicians has said to the current leader of the Centre Party Group: 'Don't shag, shut up! " One of your prominent politicians has said of the Nightmare journalist Katrin Pauts: 'He is a butcher and a body-killer who should never have children. " Does it mock women or does it not mock women? Does that disparage the entire female race? It's up to the Reform Party. Minorities. There's a minority representative sitting next door. 'He, the son of a migrant from the pink party, should be extremely careful. " Does it disparage someone or disparage anyone? Or are the charges of defamation only valid for 'right-wing extremists' like me? Or do we still have the principle of equal treatment? We'll never get an answer from the Reform Party. [[Voices in the hall.]] I can't, I can't. You can scream here, but you can't. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Okay. Since the charges have been brought against me on these issues, I will provide my explanations, I have the right to do so for 20 minutes. Please don't interrupt! Attacking doctors. 'The head of the Doctors' Association has a medical problem. ' I've got a whole line of these transcripts, but let's just cut to it, 'cause I'm running out of time. So...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U258	You have up to 20 minutes. That signal right now was wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U259	That's right. So, what's next? We were talking about underprejudicing women. That's absurd, friends, that's absurd. I have three lovely daughters, I have a wife. Someone's spreading a story that EKRE women are supposed to live between a fist and a stove. My wife said, "But you make porridge for yourself every morning, where do I fit in between my fist and the stove? " Look, this is your bad essay. Okay. That I've been lying about something? I've never knowingly lied, and I've never lied at all. So this argument is not true either. [[Voices in the hall.]] Now, Maria-Ann Rohemäe and allies. I wonder who has for two and a half years discredited President Donald Trump and Estonia's ally relations with the United States? Who has tried to convince us that President Donald Trump is a terrible person, just as I am, who does not deserve his position? It's been Maria-Ann Rohemäe. Since I have seen more than one of his reports, I have made a perfectly reasonable conclusion of this: this person has disinformed us. I can't help it, that's right. Donald Trump has done an excellent job, has not betrayed his allies and has promised to protect his allies in the Baltic countries. Who has damaged allies? Not me. All right. What else did you have to say? Here in general, more or less... Oh, yes, in the case of one accusation, I must admit to a mistake and error. I have already admitted that in some other places. This is precisely the radio show where we called for the choice of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Indeed, our mistake. We recorded the show on Friday and didn't think it would go on on Sunday. Indeed, we admit that we are lost. If we had thought a little ahead of ourselves at that point, we certainly wouldn't have. So at this point in the accusation, I even agree entirely with the Reform Party. But what I don't agree with is that it looks like I'm somehow trying to influence the police department when they're investigating this case. If the police have to fine me, I'll pay you. As I have now confessed to you, I am lost. That's it. I don't think it makes any sense for us to spend any more time here. As I know, you can ask me questions. I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U260	Thank you. Indeed, Minister, there are questions for you. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U261	Thank you. Good Mart Helme! You spoke at the beginning of your speech that there were witnesses in Marti Kuusik's case, and now they are no longer, that this thing has collapsed, that there are no more witnesses. Can you say, then, that you have succeeded in your threats?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U262	I didn't threaten anyone. If the case has collapsed, the reason why it has collapsed is to ask those who are investigating it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U263	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U264	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Mart Helme! You're the Minister of the Interior today, but before the coalition was formed, you were able to choose the ministerial portfolio as the chairman of the party. Why did you choose the Home Secretary's briefcase or what kind of chess moves you planned to do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U265	All I want to say here is that, like all of you who have been in politics for a little while, I think you know that political agreements are a compromise. And I wasn't in that position or really any partner who would put my fist on the table and say that I'm taking these portfolios now, and I'm not interested in the rest. This is always the result of discussions and, ultimately, consensual agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U266	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U267	Thank you very much. Indeed, your area of expertise is the prevention of close relationship violence. Today, I heard that in July you will present an action plan to prevent close relationship violence. Recently, your husband, our colleague, Delfis, wrote that close - relationship violence would help prevent us from returning to traditional gender roles. Have you taken your husband's advice? Is there any action in this action plan that will enable us to return to traditional gender roles? Let it be said that general scientific knowledge tells us that the more equality there is in society, the less violence there is in families.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U268	I have to admit, I'm not some kind of relationship violence specialist. I don't know how the world has studied this subject, what methods have been used. But it is true that when I was young and went to school, it was obvious in society that boys were raised to men and girls were raised to women. Yeah, maybe that definition of gender roles was too stereotyped, I don't want to justify it here in any way, but I'm very grateful for the upbringing at the time. Because it was indeed instigated that men would not cry when they were hurt, instigated that a man would protect a woman, instigated that a man must always be strong. Somewhere in the subconscious, I'm sure it's still there, and I've been trying to live up to those instructions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U269	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U270	Thank you. Mr. Helme! I don't blame people for words. If the speaker is in the head, I think there is some meaning to him in a particular context. However, I complain of inconsistency when the word does not pay. In your case, it happens in everything and all the time. Let me give you some examples. Today, too, we addressed your promise to turn the budget upside down. Clearly, it will collapse as soon as it turns out there is no money. You've promised hundreds of millions of raises. None of this happened. You have promised to investigate the opposition. There's no cover on it. And so on. Even bragging about a criminal case, without knowing its fate, is very reckless. I have a question for you. How would you put it, what is the credibility of a politician? What, in your opinion, is the hallmark of credibility for a politician?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U271	But don't get ahead of yourself! Do not want the promises that we have made to bear fruit. Don't get ahead of yourself! We've only been in the government for a month.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U272	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I would first like to point out that you have increased the Group of the Reform Party to 45 members, because you only turned to us when you responded to the motion of distrust. I would point out that it has both the signature of the Sots and the signature of Raimond Kaljulaid, so that there are 45 signatures in total. But if you see the Reform Party faction so large, I don't mind either. But my question is also about keeping to yourself. In opposition, I had great respect for you as a man of my word. I'm gonna go back a little bit. On 26 September last year, you said in the ERR that you were prepared to make a coalition with both the Reform Party and the Centre Party, but there are two things you are ruling out: you are ruling out that you are abandoning the restoration of border guards, and you are demanding that the Centre Party should, in any case, cancel its cooperation agreement with the United Russia. Why have you gone back on that promise? Why are you breaking the word, Mart?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U274	Which promise are we talking about now? When we are talking about the restoration of border guards, the restoration of border guards is ongoing, it is within the 100-day plan, a work programme must be submitted by the beginning of August, this work programme is almost complete. We do not call it, indeed, not a military border guard, but we call it an internal defence reserve with functions other than border surveillance, but we will not stop at it for a very long time. As far as the Central Party Agreement with United Russia is concerned, our partners from the Central Party convinced us that the party that signed this agreement is a member of your group, an apology! Ain Seppik, a member of your party, once a member of the Reform Party Group. He's gone to the Reform Party now. This treaty is basically dead, it's covered, and unlike Ain Seppiku, they're not responsible for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U275	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U276	Thank you. Minister Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U277	I'm not Martin, I'm Mart.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U278	I'm sorry, Mart Helme! With regard to Mr Kuusiku being an occasional minister: yes, speaking is important, but the word also has a very important force and weight. On 2 May at a government press conference, commenting on this case, you said, among other things, a sentence that said: 'Some kind of childguards and women's organisations'. Social affairs, child protection and the fight against close-relationship violence, helping these people in Estonia has been built up for more than 20 years. These people are working out of their own free will, and now these people are working as social workers, and their wages will remain the way they are, and they will not rise, as we know, because of the budget. I very much ask on behalf of myself and all those people who do child protection work and fight against close-relationship violence: please apologise and admit this mistake, along with what you have admitted to a radio broadcast...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U279	Yes, thank you! You see, communication is the same thing as this children's phone game, which we all know: sitting in a long line of children, at one end one whispers something in the other's ear, and at the other end it becomes a completely different word. What's the question now? The question is, you're taking this half sentence, but you don't know what information I had when I said it. I have information that family members were threatened if they didn't testify, by taking children and stuff like that. That's why I couldn't react in a manner of restraint, I reacted very acutely. If that's true, it's still outrageous. It may fit into a totalitarian society somewhere, but not a democratic rule of law, as we believe Estonia should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U280	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U281	Thank you. Mr Helme, I would remind you that you are a member of the Government of the Republic, Minister of the Interior. I had a sincere plan to ask you some serious and substantive questions, but by listening to your introductory remarks and these first answers, I don't expect an answer from you. I see that this has no use, this dozing, arrogant, arrogant, disrespectful and pointing at behaviour has not changed in any way since you were in opposition, it is the same now that you are in full responsibility to the Estonian state as a member of the Government of the Republic. I don't expect an answer from you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U282	But I'm still gonna answer, that's right. Since I am a member of the government and do not intend to tick as a member of the government as much of the previous governments have ticked, but I intend to be aggressive and act, I am what I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U283	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U284	Thank you. Mr. Helme! I want to know how you feel about the former Foreign Trade and IT Minister Kuusik when he went to the Prime Minister's office and dialed his former husband's phone number. I would remind you that this husband has suffered from close-relationship violence for years. How do you feel about pushing on the speaker and asking around in the presence of the Prime Minister: 'Is it not that we do not have any domestic violence? We don't have any intimacy violence, do we? " What, then, must this long - suffering woman have the courage to answer? Don't you think it's another act of close relationship violence?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U285	First of all, you weren't there, even though you're saying all this in a certain way. Secondly, you have no reason to claim that this woman has been subjected to close-relationship violence for years because it has not been proved by the prosecutor's office or the police today. If you're saying that now, I'm asking Marti Kuusik to take a look at this verbatim because he's going to sue all these slanderers. Yes, of course, in this Chamber the vigilante is free in his words, but please do not incriminate any accusations that have not been proven so far! Next, this phone call was the result of a joint decision by this group, and these questions were asked not by Marti Kuusik, but by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, at the time... [[Voices in the hall.]] That's right. But he didn't ask the kind of questions you say here, but he did it in a much softer, politeer tone. Because, you see, you should know Jüri Ratas better than I do and you know that Jüri Ratas is always correct, polite, respectful on the other hand. So the questions you quoted to us were not at all on the agenda. I was there and I know what I'm talking about. You weren't, and you're just doing slander right now. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U286	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U287	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You said you'd never attacked the press. As far as I am concerned, you have compared the "Actual Camera" with the "Vremja" programme of your time, and you have said that "Vremja" was a much more balanced and objective programme. I think the "Actual Camera" journalists are definitely on this balcony. Why don't you look them in the eye and repeat those words? And while you have already mentioned the Prime Minister, I will ask if the Prime Minister has made any comments for such statements. I know that one of our colleagues in his day, who treated the ERR in the same way, he made a comment. Do you have any?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U288	But the "Actual Camera" is out of balance, just like all our mainstream media are out of balance. Every day I open up a media channel, I read some strange accusations and slanders about myself. Please, let's take the Evening Page, which spoke in a specific way about how Martin Helme has built a house illegally. When the building permit was put up in black on white, it turned out it wasn't, it was completely legally built. This is our mainstream media, which seeks a scandal that is politically biased, fulfills a political order. I'm not attacking anyone, I'm stating the facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U289	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U290	Good answer! Unfortunately, you've attacked here. To be honest, this attack on the questioners is not exactly a sign of strength and such irritation, which is obvious today, at least from lunch, when you screamed at the members of the Commission in the Committee on European Union Affairs, is not a very good style. But let's get down to business. Today, in the Committee on European Union Affairs, you blew up another bombshell, proposing to continue with the current migration policy, and admitted that there are no Brussels commands and decisions. It was supported by your party associates at the Half Office, Kaalep and Madison. Are you willing to admit here in front of everyone that, in fact, previous governments made the right choices in migration policy, and all this intimidation with millions of refugees and Brussels command decisions was simply irresponsible and wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U291	Taavi Rõivas probably goes around Estonia, especially in Tallinn, with eyes attached. Therefore, he does not see how the street image of Tallinn changes, that there are a lot of people of foreign origin here, especially in certain districts. If this is not the result of migration, I do not know what the result is. Apparently, there is something in the Estonian gene pool that is also born of darker blood. It is clear that we are now between two fires because of migration. One mass migration comes from the east, and as Minister of the Interior, I know very well how big these numbers are. The second, not so massive, slowly but constantly growing, migration comes both from within the European Union and from outside the European Union. So what's there to admit? It can be said that we support those positions that have gradually been born in the European Union thanks to other countries which, contrary to Germany, have not accepted mass migration. In other words, migration and the acceptance of refugees must remain voluntary, more opportunities must be given to return people if they do not qualify for criteria that are acceptable in the European Union. Thirdly, more resources must be devoted to the countries from which migration originates. These have been our positions from the beginning. We are pleased that these views are becoming increasingly universal in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U292	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U293	Good answer! From your introduction, I realized that you don't think you're wrong about anything other than one law. If I look at the text of a motion of distrust and your earlier statements, which you disparage scientists, attack journalists and mock the President, so sometimes the Prime Minister has had to apologize for you, do I understand correctly that this behaviour will continue in your opinion? Have you spoken to the Prime Minister about his willingness to apologize for you in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U294	I have spoken to the Prime Minister and asked him not to apologize for me, because I am responsible for what I have said and, if necessary, I am sorry myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U295	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U296	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mart Helme! I was very surprised and very concerned about your unprecedented treatment of contract law as Minister of the Interior. Do you really confirm in front of this entire hall that the contract will become invalid when the person who signed the contract changes the party? Have you not understood who signed the treaty? Is it really just because the person who signed the contract is changing parties that is invalid? Is that your position as Minister of the Interior?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U297	Look, guys, if you ever have to start a coalition with the Centre Party, ask the representatives of the Centre Party what's going on with this treaty. Then you probably won't be bothered by this contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U298	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U299	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good answer! You have been insulting and humiliating women, the President, journalists, international media, our allies, doctors, potential victims of violence, scientists in the past month. In mid-March, a statement was published by the Estonian Jewish Community Council, where they announced that they were worried about EKRE coming to power. This was after a statement from the ranks of your party, according to which the Estonian state is run by secret Jews and Zionists. As Deputy Prime Minister of Jüri Ratas, you have rejected the anti-Semitic statements from your party's ranks, you have also rejected the statements of your closest fellow fighters made in the international media, where 'The positive elements of Nazi Germany' are protected. You will now have a visit to Israel in the coming days.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U300	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U301	How do you intend to apologize and explain the anti-Semitic views that have been expressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U302	Look, first of all, we don't have any anti-Semitic views, they're your invention. Secondly, I'm not going to apologize to anyone for anything. I have nothing to apologize for. I have deeply respected the Jewish people, I have had Jewish friends, I have Jewish friends to this day. I've been invited to Israel's village, and I'm not gonna put myself in anyone's head. I have been to Israel, I have always supported Israel's fight against the overwhelming Muslim world around it. I have nothing to apologize for, because my attitude towards the Jews and Israel is extremely warm and sympathetic.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U303	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U304	Thank you. Good answer! I have the same question as before. On behalf of the Central Party, a deal was made with Russia by Mailis Reps, a colleague of yours, and Ain Seppik. Is it that if someone in Swedbank signs a home loan agreement with me and leaves there, that contract is nothing? Please, enlighten the people! You make a pretty stupid impression repeating it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U305	But you ask your Seppik about all this. I have nothing to do with this treaty. You see, I don't belong to the Centre Party! If I shared their views, we'd be in the same party. I don't belong to the Centre Party. I have nothing to do with this treaty. In addition, I would still remind you that this agreement was concluded at a time when the Centre Party had not so-called renewed, even in your opinion, when the Centre Party had not become a parquet. Don't you fuck with me! I have nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U306	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U307	Thank you. Mr. Helme! I understand that you don't even exist, that you're being led from somewhere. One of the leaders is me, one of the leaders is a deep state, and all the actions of Ain Seppik are also, aren't they? You're not responsible for anything. The last question I had was what you think the credibility of a politician is. There is no such thing for you at all. I can tell you that your administration has already been told that your word does not pay. Inside and outside, your words do not coincide. Now I'm asking a question. You have promised to expose the infiltrated traitors in your jurisdiction, which you deal with as part of the deep state. How far are you? What traitors have you found? Give me a little description of how they're leading you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U308	I already told you once. Ladies and gentlemen, do not want my words to come true. Don't! If you really want to, you might get hurt. I don't know what's gonna happen. Don't! [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U309	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U310	I can't get over or around this child protection thing. In 2018, there were 8,500 children in need of help, 248 children who were sexually abused. Regardless of whether Marti Kuusik was guilty or not, according to the Child Protection Act, which entered into force in 2016, a child protection worker is obliged to identify persons in the premises and by taking law enforcement measures in case of a threat. Not to mention that if he or she receives a notification of a child in need, of whatever type of need, he or she will have to find out the situation of that child. They're doing their job. I understand it's hard for you to admit your mistake, but these people are waiting for recognition. It would also be a recognition of your mistake here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U311	I don't understand that I would have made any mistake. I've been protecting a family from a media beating up, from a public crucifixion. I haven't made any mistake. I have defended a family that has been Ruined for days and weeks, and is still being Ruined in this hall. I have defended this family and the children of this family, who have been dragged into public political reckoning completely unjustly and in vain. Completely unjust and futile! Please don't try to draw children and family into a political touch. This is not respectable and this does not increase the credibility of a politician if you so much want to talk about credibility here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U312	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U313	Thank you very much. Indeed, you are currently the Minister of the Interior, and you are in charge of supporting victims of close-relationship violence. You admit here in front of all of us that you know nothing about the existence of intimate violence. I am pleased to tell you that next week the Riigikogu will be trained on the subject of close-relationship violence and I personally sent you an invitation. Since you acknowledge that you do not know anything about this area of your own administration, I very much hope that you can come to this training. My question is: will you come to this training, and if you do not, how do you intend to familiarise yourself with this area, so that your words and actions do not harm the victims of close-relationship violence, but support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U314	I don't know that my actions would have harmed anyone within the framework of intimate violence. As for the fact that I have to fill myself in on something, look, I went to the National Defence Academy a few days ago and lectured there, by the way. That's where I was introduced to study cells. Perhaps in order to understand the prisoners and their psychology, I should spend a few weeks or months there to familiarize myself with it. I was introduced to the circle. Now it's been 30 years or more since I shot a gun. Maybe I should go for a spin and shoot a gun, catch up with patrol officers and other people who use a gun. Look, as I've been saying, as far as finances are concerned, I'm not an accountant, I'm not a patrol cop, I'm not a childguard, I'm not a childguard, and I'm not a second and a third. I'm a minister, I curate these areas of administration. I will, of course, examine the development plans and other documents, give my assessment, involve specialists, sit with them, discuss them. The days are long, full of all kinds of meetings and debates. I can't get anywhere. I feel sorry for people. For years, I lived in a house where there was a children's shelter, where there were runaways and other children. I know very well how these kids suffer, what they look like, how scared they are, how much they need help. To knock on my conscience with the idea that I favour violence against women, violence against the family, I will be happy to watch women or men beat up children, so don't come with such vulgar and absurd accusations! Of course, I have a heart in me, and I feel sorry for the sufferers. But what I do not accept is bringing this issue here as an instrument of political struggle. I don't accept that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U315	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U316	Thank you. Mart, all you're saying is that journalists, colleagues, opposition, everyone hurts you, no one treats you equally with anyone who's made mistakes. You quoted a statement about the son of a migrant from the pink party and demanded equal treatment. I would like to remind you that the person who said this has left the ministerial seat because of the very same sentence. I offer you equal treatment: make a horrible end for yourself instead of making an endless horror for us!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U317	I have nothing else to say about this but that the whole of Estonia breathed relievedly when it resigned.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U318	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U319	Thank you. Dear Mart Helme, You said this motion of distrust was a bad essay. This bad essay is largely composed of your quotes, perhaps is the reason for this in turn. I'm listening to this conversation here, and I get the impression that you have a monopoly on the truth, you're infallible. Then I think one of us is probably living in parallel reality, but the only question remains which. When the President gave a speech at the opening session, he said this among many things: this speech chair, where he is now, is spoken to the Estonian people. You're talking about the out-of-balance mainstream media, people of foreign origin who are moving around somewhere, and you're saying don't want my words to come true. Do you think this is an appropriate behaviour for the Minister of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U320	All I have to say about it is how you call the forest, it's how you say it back. These questions, this eloquent, incriminating, derogatory tone with which these questions have been put, with which all this motion of distrust has been made, will inevitably result in my irony as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U321	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U322	Thank you very much. Minister, I assure you, there will be no illusion or irony on my part in your direction. Although I don't understand that if I ask you about the ERR, you'll be talking about your child's cabin. I think it's funny. But once again, you have said that the "Vremja" of its time was more solid and balanced than today's "Actual Camera." These are your words: solid and balanced. Do you really think so? Once again, has the Prime Minister made a remark for your words and asked you to stop making such statements?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U323	I haven't made any statements. I've said what I mean. And the word, as we all know, is free.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U324	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U325	Thank you. Mr. Mart Helme! For several times now, when you are asked in this Chamber about intimacy violence or women's rights, you answer that you have three daughters and a wife and you have not hurt them. Yes, there is no need to have a personal experience in all things. If I haven't been beaten up at home, that doesn't mean there's no close-up violence. If my kid doesn't smoke, that doesn't mean no kid does. If I haven't seen an elephant, it doesn't mean that elephants don't exist. You referred nicely to the fact that you can't be a patrol cop, you can't go through everything on your own. That's absolutely right. I very much hope that you will not have much contact with the issues that are being dealt with in your area of administration. The Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board, the Defence Police Board, there are many topics and concerns that many of us do not have personal contact with. It is therefore necessary to trust specialists, to trust research and also to collect background knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U326	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U327	I repeat Liina Kersna's question: will you participate in the near-relationship violence training that will take place here next week?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U328	It's really hard for me to say from this remote right now because I don't have my calendar next week. I'm not gonna sign up for yes, I'm in, because I don't know if I can participate. Today it was such an embarrassing situation that I had to be in two committees at once. I don't know why this happened. I had to run from one commission to another and then back. A person cannot be in multiple places at the same time. That's why I'm not answering by putting my hand on the Bible right now that I am, or I am not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U329	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U330	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mart Helme! You said you didn't call this family, but the Prime Minister did, and as your future Minister of the Interior, didn't stop the Prime Minister from making that speech. I believe that this is a sign that you absolutely do not understand what a member of the government or a future member of the government can afford and that he cannot afford. But even more dangerous to me are the words and phrases that you did so in this case precisely because you know who went to threaten the family, as if you were drawing or pressing any testimony. Can I read from this that you have been informed who these potential witnesses were, and this will be followed by an investigation? Who gave you this information? That's how you answered from the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U331	Ohh! You can only spin these same things around and give these things some kind of distorted interpretation. It is self-evident that if the government is threatened by a scandal of this kind, as the Estonian Express spread out, then the head of the government and the leader of the party also want to clarify the circumstances. It makes sense. It's normal. We wanted to clarify the circumstances. To find out better, in order not only to rely on the explanations of one side, we contacted the other side by telephone. I don't understand what's abnormal and immoral about it! Not at all, in my opinion. We tried to get as clear as possible about the circumstances. As far as these other topics are concerned, this is what the people of Rakvere have told me. Is that true? I insisted that I didn't know. But such explanations, such stories have come to my ears, and I do not think that I should regard them as 100% unsubstantiated. After all, what was the basis for these accusations? And anonymous rumors. Sausage for sausage.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U332	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U333	Thank you. Dear Mart Helme, You are currently in this chair because you are the chairman of a coalition party and you must also answer questions concerning the alleged problems with people who are not you. But compared to you, I'm in a comfortable position here, so I can get out of the hall and make phone calls. I want to say that, during the questions and your answers, I have made a speech to both the Prime Minister and Martin Helme, who were at the meeting that caused the chaos in the meantime. It was at Stenbock's house. Marti Kuusik's husband was called. They both told me that Prime Minister Jüri Ratas was no longer involved in this speech as an listener. He didn't ask anyone questions. [[In the hall noise, applause, trampling the feet.]] I understand there's a lot of nerve pressure, and there's no need for a fact check. But it was just said to make it clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U334	Maybe I remember wrong, there's been so many events. That's how I remembered it. I'm not gonna contradict their claims, but that's how I remembered it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U335	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said that there is a great deal to see in the pictures of Tallinn...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U336	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U337	No, I didn't use that word.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U338	...foreigners. Now, if you look at where you work and where we mostly go, we can see that there are really many foreign people with different skin colors in front of this house, before the Riigikogu and before the church. I think you will also understand that these are not all immigrants, and this is not a mass migration. Where do you see it in Tallinn, and why are you afraid that so many foreigners have come here and that they are threatening us?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U339	First of all, I haven't used any words here that describe skin colors. Secondly, I am not talking about people who take pictures of the Russian church or the Riigikogu building, but about people who move around in Mustamägi, who move around in Õismägi, who move around elsewhere in the city, they move around alone, not in groups. It is quite clear that these people have come from somewhere in Estonia. This means that the issue of immigration is not as innocent as it is being attempted to show, but is a growing problem, because these people are too often a burden on our taxpayers. I can't tell you exactly what these people are doing here, it's really hard for me to say. But I know from the consultations at the Ministry of the Interior that this contingent is growing and growing very fast. But we have a problem with immigration coming from the east, which is growing many times faster and bigger. We're in the middle of a fire. We are a small nation, there are only 900,000 of us in Estonia. If we let the problem happen and then we start solving it, then we're in real trouble. The problem must be dealt with when it is just beginning to develop. So there is no xenophobia or racism here, as you are trying to refer to in any way, but it is a matter of common sense and the preservation of Estonia as an Estonian national home.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U340	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U341	Good manager! Good Mr. Helme! Just before you became Minister of the Interior, about a week before you gave an interview to the Estonian daily newspaper, where you said that... I understand you have to be careful using your quotes and asking questions. But you said that the Estonian special services are not subject to the orders of the institutions operating in Estonia, but are acting on behalf of the European Commission. A few days later, the journalist asked a more specific question, and then you said that you meant that the special services were operating from liberal democratic dogmas established by the European Commission and that they were carrying out a political order. It remained valid for them to execute a political order. Now the office of Minister of the Interior has been held for about a month. How is it today, have you identified the fact that the Estonian special services are not really subject to the constitutional institutions of Estonia, or are they subordinate? Are they still executing a political order? And if so, whose is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U342	This is primarily the subject of the Riigikogu and the monitoring committee of special services. So take care of it here and report back to me. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yes, but supervision is exercised by the Riigikogu commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U343	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U344	Thank you. Good Helme! This anti-Semitic text, which I spoke about in my previous question, is not fiction, but these quotations come from the mouth of the leading politicians of your party. The leading politicians of your party have statements that the Estonian state is run by secret Jews and zionists, and the public defence of the positive elements of Nazi Germany has not sounded the same way from anyone other than the leading politicians of your party. I offer you an opportunity and a platform before you make a visit to Israel, to renounce and apologize for those publicly spoken words.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U345	Look, if you kill a man, the collective will not be responsible. It is Confucionist, and even more so is neoconfusionist and legist practice that there is ring guarantee and circular responsibility: if one official commits a crime, it is all to blame. We have an individual responsibility. Those who have spoken or written such words are responsible for their actions. I gave you my views earlier. My point of view is what I told you. Those people who have said something else are responsible for their own words.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U346	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U347	Good manager! Good Mart! Let's get a little higher than our frog team. President Kaljulaid has made a lot of efforts to make Estonia a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. There's going to be a UN vote right now. Is the aim of this action, which is currently taking place here under the leadership of the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, to give the UN voters the impression of Estonia, the Republic of Estonia, as one unstable country, and thus draw water on President Kaljulaid's efforts?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U348	I can't tell you what kind of relationship they have with the president right now, whether they support him or not, what kind of relationship they have. But I'd say there's only one thing behind all this interrogation and all this mistrust: the desire to gain power. The Reform Party can't imagine life being possible for a long time without power, and that's why they're gymnastics here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U349	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U350	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear Mr Helme, You know, you're scaring me. For every answer you say, I've got chills all over my body. I do not know which Estonia you want and what the people of Estonia should think now. What are you gonna tell them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U351	What kind of Estonia do I want? Different than what we're living in right now. It's completely different. Not a reformist Estonia, but an Estonia that is inhabited with decently paid people throughout its territory, from which people do not emigrate, where 47% of pensioners do not live in poverty, where a third of people do not live in relative or absolute poverty, where there is no domestic violence. By the way, where there is no domestic violence, which is largely the face of poverty, which the Reform Party, which promised to take us to the five richest countries, has brought us to Estonia. This is the kind of Estonia I want, a happy, creatively working Estonia, where the people do not run away, where people are not bitter and angry at each other, where it is not possible to provoke people with any false accusations of racism, fascism, xenophobia, violence against women and hatred, where these accusations cannot even occur, all the more so when these accusations are completely unfounded. This is the kind of Estonia I want, but not the kind of Estonia that the Reform Party has given us in 17 years in power against our will.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U352	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U353	Thanks for the word! Good Minister of the Interior! EKRE has publicly stated that you do not support the continuation of Attorney General Lavly Perling as the Attorney General. Is this because the prosecutor's office dared to initiate criminal proceedings to control the possible violence between Marti Kuusik and his wife?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U354	No, it has absolutely nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U355	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U356	Thank you. Mr. Helme! I understand that you are a person who, in his opinion, is always right and who is never wrong. You will not apologize, you will threaten and warn. But in this hall today, we caught you wrong when you lied about the Prime Minister. Today in this Chamber you once again threatened the police, threatened the members of the Riigikogu. In this Chamber today, you said that you liked 'Vremja', which, as we know, was an ideological flagship of Soviet power, a representative of that power. Your understanding of the deep state is very much reminiscent of how KGB, GRU and other such organisations functioned. Don't you think you're living in another world that's been 30 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U357	But it doesn't. Unfortunately, I'm living in a world I don't like right now. The Reform Party is the great creator and author of this world. I don't like it, yeah! But about the Soviet order: don't smear it on me! Unlike a large part of your party, I have not been part of the Communist Party or other bodies of the Soviet repressive apparatus. That makes us very different from your party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U358	Thank you. Mr. Helme! First of all, of course, I need to cool your mind a little bit. The Reform Party is not the creator of the world. There are different theories about how the world was created, but there is no Reform Party among the creators of the world. But I wanted to ask you about the presumption of innocence. You said that you were the guardian of the presumption of innocence and that you would defend it at every opportunity. The presumption of innocence states that no one must be considered guilty until a judgment has been given. I ask you this: have you, Mart Helme, personally, never erred against the presumption of innocence? Have you not falsely accused anyone of not having a judgment? I ask you this too: will you promise never to do this again? For example, if you're throwing up money laundering charges here, you're not gonna do it until the verdict has come into effect, and you're not just gonna press such charges because it would be contrary to the presumption of innocence? Are you willing to do so even if the charges are against another party member?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U359	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U360	I'm not blaming anybody here, I'm saying the fact again. The charges are yours. I note the fact that the Reform Party was in power for a long time when there was unprecedented money laundering in the history of the world in Estonia. I'm saying the fact. When the ministers of the Reform Party and the others didn't see anything, they didn't hear, they didn't understand, they didn't fit into ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U361	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U362	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You and your party have brought the word 'deep state' into Estonian political rhetoric. Now you yourself have been a minister for some time, if I may say so, a representative of this very deep state. What are your perceptions: how much of this deep state now exists and, as a minister in the matter, has the functioning of this deep state become more or less confirmed to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U363	Yeah, I've gotten a lot smarter. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U364	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U365	Thank you. Mr. Helme! You said in one of your answers that you do not see anything immoral or abnormal in the telephone station that was held in the presence of the Prime Minister with the alleged victim of domestic violence. In my opinion, the fact that you see nothing abnormal or immoral in it is sufficient reason to distrust you. Then you were immediately caught by a lie concerning Prime Minister Ratas' involvement in the questioning of the alleged victim. The chairman of the Centre Party Group, your coalition partner, had to call you to order. This is already the second sufficient reason to distrust you by lying from this Riigikogu speaking board. If you now believe that you really do not remember what the Prime Minister did on this very sensitive and important issue, do you not think that if memory plays such a trick on you, that is also sufficient reason to vote you off today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U366	I don't know which one of us is senile. You also often don't remember what you've said or done before. I really admit I may have been wrong. It was such an emotional moment. Everyone had their passions very heated up. The scandal was massive. If George claims he didn't ask for anything, I'm willing to apologize to him, indeed. I remembered it a little differently, but all right. You mistrust me anyway. What other reasons are you looking for? You already have several pages of these reasons. So you can add them if you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U367	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U368	Thank you, Mr President. You brought this money laundering issue into it yourself. I am aware that I have to be very precise in quoting and referencing your words. I'm trying to do that. I don't think I'm wrong, and I've got it right that you've been blaming the authorities because this terrorist money should have gotten the CPO, the prosecutor's office, the police intelligence office, but despite receiving complaints and information, these authorities didn't operate. You have said that the question that needs to be answered is why the investigative authorities did not make any serious attempts to prevent money laundering. As a result of your office, you have had the opportunity to ask the authorities under your authority why the investigative bodies did not do so. Have you asked that question and what the authorities have answered you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U369	Yeah, I've been asking, but the answers have been unsatisfactory so far. I will continue to ask, and I will continue to study these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U370	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U371	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Mart Helme, you are currently standing in a remote area where people from all over Estonia are spoken. This morning we stopped here for a minute to remember Mart Nutt. Mart Nutt said that a reputation would disappear if people were not told the truth or something was left unsaid. A few minutes ago you lied to the entire Estonian people about this speaker, you lied about the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. What do you think of your reputation after that? Do you ever tell the truth and how the Estonian people can still trust you in a ministerial chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U372	I would suggest, again, that instead of pointing such a blaming point, you think it's human to be wrong. I've already said twice that maybe I remember wrong. I'm not gonna rule it out. I also said that I was perfectly prepared to apologize to George Ratas for pulling him in like this, which he says he was actually acting differently. If a person is wrong and if a person apologizes, I don't think this thing should be as bad as you're presenting. But I say to you, gold reformers, that you have lied to the Estonian people for at least 15 years in a row. You've lied, lied, lied, and you keep lying. How can I believe in you? Why do we have to believe that if you come back to the government, you will not continue to lie, Estonia will not continue to be poor, the people will not leave Estonia, that rural areas will not be quite empty, the elderly will not really die of starvation? What kind of warranty do you give? There's no guarantee you're gonna make, not at all. You're just gonna keep lying numbly. So when we're talking about mass lying, it's coming from you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U373	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U374	Thank you. Dear Mart Helme! I've been listening to this discussion for an hour or more, and I see that you're always performing counterattacks on the Reform Party, accusing us of a hundred deadly sins, and in the light of all this, you're saying that the motion of mistrust that we put forward is ironic, and that's why your answers are very ironic. I don't know, sometimes it seems to me that we're talking about each other, or even I think you're one of the representatives of the flat Earth theory. But let's get to the facts. You said a misconception on the first point that the accusation in Marti Kuusik's case has collapsed, the charge is empty, nothing has been found. I'm just asking: would you say, as a fact, is this criminal case closed and when it's finished, what result did it end?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U375	First of all, you're wrong if you're talking about a criminal case. Marti Kuusik has not even been questioned yet. There's not even any doubt about what criminal case we're talking about! There's no case here, so there's nothing more to talk about.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U376	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U377	Thank you. Mart Helme, you spoke in response to one question about what kind of Estonia you want. There were a number of sympathetic ideas about how life in the country could be better possible and how poverty in the elderly should be reduced, as well as a number of other such social democratic goals. In this context, I have such a sincere question. Before the elections, you promised people a double pension, promised a reduction in electricity excise duty and a reduction in VAT, and a hundred other things. Now, if you happen to come into Vändra's cultural house to meet the elderly of Vändra, many of whom voted for you, naturally hoping these things will come true, what will you tell them? Why didn't all this come up, and the only thing you're offering them is the cheapest bottle of vodka?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U378	How many years were you in the government? And how long have we been in the government? A month! And now you insist that, within a month, pensions be doubled, four-line roads built, etc. You see, in a month you won't be able to make it. But if you question the pension increase, I say to you that if this government continues, the pension increase will come. If you question the four-line road, I say to you that we are now doing a very serious analysis for the better capitalisation of the Estonian state and we will find these tools to at least start building. We're not gonna build these roads in four years, but at least we're gonna design, we're gonna tender, we're gonna build. As far as rural areas are concerned, I have to give credit here to our coalition partners. We have very consensual ideas about how to get life back to the country, what to do and how to do it. But I'm afraid if we start discussing these things for a long time here, we're gonna have to discuss it, all the more so because they're still working. Yes, we were unpleasantly surprised by the spring forecast, but now we have already got new and better numbers, and this gives us the opportunity to move forward much more optimisticly. So I'm not worried that we won't be able to make our election promises in four years. We can't get them all, but we can get some.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U379	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U380	Thank you. Dear Mart Helme, I come back to the clarification of my colleague, Mr Simson, and also to the question that Sven Mikser asked you, in fact, to your answer, where you said that yes, it was an emotional moment, and there will certainly be more. I'm sure there'll be more emotional moments. My concern is that an emotional moment will lead to either not remembering or lying. It is very difficult to trust a minister who has such capacity in the government of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U381	But you don't trust me anyway. So to be honest, I don't care if you trust me or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U382	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U383	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Helme! You've been lying again. You said there was no case. On 29 April, the Police and Border Guard Board opened proceedings under the direction of the Prosecutor's Office. April 29th. You said there was no criminal record. You lied again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U384	No, I didn't. The investigation isn't a criminal matter. [[The excitement in the hall.]] Whoa, whoa, whoa...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U385	Right now, it's... Easy, easy! [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Honourable Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U386	Can I ask you a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U387	Clap as much as...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U388	Minister, one minute for the questioner, you can still answer! Please, Hanno Pevkur, continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U389	Good chairman, can I have my 45 seconds back?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U390	You can, you can get back. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U391	Thank you. You've already lied on the remote several times. You're bragging, you're attacking the questioners. You don't understand the principles of democracy. You say that Parliament should report to you. 'Inform me,' is your exact quote. I understand you have good examples. The lie must be so great that it seems credible. It's a well-known saying in history. But I'll give you one chance: take a white paper, write a personal statement to the Prime Minister about your resignation, and you don't need to dig into a deeper hole here. Indeed, you do not qualify as Minister of the Interior, you know nothing about the opening of criminal proceedings, you know nothing about justice, you know nothing about the principles of democracy. Take this step for you and for the people of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U392	Thank you. I had a meeting with both the Chief Justice of the Police Department and the Attorney General. The Attorney General made it clear that the investigation had begun to identify the facts, but that doubts had not yet been raised. [[Voices in the hall.]] So, to find out the circumstances, not to accuse Marti Kuusik. To find out the facts, it's something else. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] It's something completely different. This has nothing to do with a lie. And hold on to your head with two hands, of course, your head hurts, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U393	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's try to talk one at a time, everybody gets the word according to the rules, nobody gets lost. Let's keep going. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U394	I'm here listening and listening and listening and thinking and thinking and thinking. You know, I don't want to ask any more questions. Really. Body hair's up. I'm just saying a little line: I'm teaching my children somehow, that if you're attacked, never attack back, but try to bring the facts and be human.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U395	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U396	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I too listened carefully to your previous response to Mrs Šmigun-Vähi. I have to admit that, as Mr Ossinovski pointed out, reducing poverty, standing against peripheralisation and such important wishes to create more equal opportunities, which you expressed when speaking about this Estonia that you would like, are very sympathetic. But it is very difficult to understand that if your first major budget act is to reduce excise duties on alcohol, how does that relate to it? Nor do I understand that when you described that you would like to see Estonia, where there is no violence that is more friendly, cheerful and creative, but at the same time in one reply you said that you are proud that you are aggressive as a minister and as a member of the government, and you also intend to be aggressive, how can you build a more friendly and cheerful Estonia if you intend to be aggressive as a member of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U397	Look, I'm a very friendly person, a very friendly person, a very benevolent person. But I would say that this political crap-slapping that has taken place on my person, my son, our party, our coalition, over the last few months, is unprecedented. I'm so old, I remember Soviet times. Even in Soviet times, there was nothing like this, even in Soviet times. Then a single person was dealt with and confounded, but such collective condemnation, such collective guilt, was not even attributed to Soviet times. I remember it very well. So the friendly side should also be the one who's throwing dirt right now, so there wouldn't be any tension like that. What can I tell you other than we're all trying to pull down a little tone? I'm not the kind of person who's been trained so that when you're attacked, don't hit back. I've been taught the other way around: if you're attacked, hit back. I'll hit you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U398	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U399	Yes, thank you! Mr. Helme! Recently, in Kadriorg, the President addressed your party representatives with a very clear statement that he is sick of walking around the world and playing the spokesperson of Mart Helme. Instead of doing his job to represent Estonia, he must walk around the world and smooth out the statements made by you and your party partners so that there is something left of the reputation of the Estonian state. My question to you is, when will the President be able to continue his normal work, so that he no longer has to act as a spokesperson for Mart Helme?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U400	Well, what can I say about him? You'll have to ask yourself who's taken this slander to the foreign press. Well, you'll have to ask yourself that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U401	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U402	Good answer! You have already been advised a few times and have been offered the possibility that, in connection with a clear display of incompetence on several occasions, you could take a white paper and perhaps go to Kadriorg yourself this evening before suddenly the Prime Minister, whom you directly accused and even lied about him, would do so. If this is the Minister of the Interior of the Government of the Republic, you can't be sure that the Prime Minister's cup isn't enough for you to say. In this sense, I have a question for you: how do you feel when you lie to me for how many times, and don't you think the Prime Minister might have had enough of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U403	I think I've said twice or three times that being wrong isn't lying. Admitting error and apologizing to the Prime Minister should have smoothed it out. But if you didn't understand it, think deeply about this present answer. Maybe I'll give you a paper and a pen, write it down.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U404	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U405	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Helme! We have listened to your answers here today, and they have been quite often attacking the questioner. I ask quite frankly: why are you unable to answer people with dignity and balance, and why are you raising your voice? How are we supposed to translate your rhetoric today or your general rhetoric? Are you trying to compensate for something, or can you give us some other answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U406	You know, I was a lecturer at the university for 14 years, and I got used to talking with a loud, clear voice and good dictation. So I'm sorry if you're somehow upset that I'm speaking out loud with a clear and understandable dictation. So I'm sorry, I'm so used to it. As for the attack, as I have said, as you call out the forest, it echoes in return.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U407	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U408	This grudge, slander, pressure, blackmail, tagging, which has been endured by the current coalition, the EKRE and especially its leaders, is indeed unprecedented and unacceptable. The talk about some kind of restriction of freedom of expression is just disgusting. My question, however, is this: How can the government, and how can you endure under such circumstances?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U409	I have such a good habit that whenever I can, I do physical work in my spare time. I like to break trees. Blasting a tree is an old Zen monk psychotherapy activity. If I've still broken the trees again, I don't feel any more hatred for all these insulters and slanderers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U410	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U411	Thank you, Mr. Helme! I was shocked by the Soviet nostalgia expressed in one of your earlier responses, although perhaps, given your friendship with Marine Le Pen, it should not be so startling. Speaking of press criticism of your identity and your party, you said: 'Even in Soviet times there was nothing like this. " A few months ago, we recalled 70 years since the March deportation, when over 20,000 people were sent to Siberia in a short time. I am now offering you the opportunity to think about the moment and to say whether, indeed, even in Soviet times, nothing was as bad as this mild criticism that has been made at your very regrettable statements and actions by the Estonian press and the opposition of the parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U412	First of all, I must say, of course, that I do not have the slightest Soviet nostalgia. Not the smallest! I didn't love Soviet power, to say the least. Secondly, at the time of my deportation in March, I was not yet born; at the time of my deportation in June, I was not yet born. I just don't remember these events. What I remember immediately has been the 1970s and 1980s of the century, and then such a witch hunt, such slander and tagging, was not there. No, it wasn't! That's what I'm talking about. This has nothing to do with nostalgia. We've come to a situation where you can't talk about a Chukchi anecdote, you're just some xenophobe and race, and you don't know whose hater and despiser. If you use some kind of folk language expression, liberals like you will immediately take them out of context, turn them on and start talking about how much you hate someone. Well, everyone's acting on their own level of corruption.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U413	Thank you. Good minister! Today, we had a rare opportunity to hear the words of the Minister of the Interior in the European Union Affairs Committee, which you, as your Minister of the Interior, happened to have here today in the Commission, that Estonia's views on the issue of migration have been reasonable and you intend to continue with this sensible policy. Now you have a good opportunity to lie from this remote control or to tell the people of Estonia that in the past you may have been hysterical in your news portals, radio programmes and in all other situations in this jovial mood and oppressed people's fears when you have said that Estonia's migration policy is extremely liberal, in a situation where it has been exactly what you yourself considered reasonable today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U414	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U415	I don't think you were in the hall or listening to the hearing on television. I already answered that question once. I don't remember who presented it. I replied very clearly: the political trends that have now developed in Europe, largely under the pressure of Eastern Europe, Central Europe and the Baltic States, are quite different from those that were in 2015 or, let's say, still in 2017. They are reasonable because they are aimed at restricting immigration into Europe, the aim is to leave countries greater freedom, rather, full freedom to accept the results of this migration and, above all, to assist the countries of dispatch. I said all that. Everything is very reasonable, of course we support it. When we talk about migration, we don't just use one hemisphere, we use both hemispheres. When we talk about migration with both hemispheres of the brain, we realise that migration is also covered by what has now reached Estonia from the eastern countries, particularly Ukraine. Tens of thousands of people come to work in Estonia, but thousands of these tens of thousands will live here permanently and bring their families after them. The proportion of Estonians in the population has decreased over the last few years, as a result of this migration. It is also migration, it is this liberal migration, it is a visa-free regime with Ukraine, it is a liberal attitude towards the arrival of labour from the Russian Federation and Belarus as well. In total, there are so many people that it is becoming a new migratory burden that we find very difficult to cope with in the long term. So a little bit more thoroughly unraveled, that's the attitude. On the one hand, yes, we have an attitude too liberal, on the other, we welcome the fact that policies have become more conservative with regard to migration to the West and to the South.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U416	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U417	Thank you. Good Mart Helme, let's feel friendly! I personally like your loud voice and your good dictation very much. But I'll come back to my last question. Let's not talk about criminal proceedings here anymore, let's talk about investigating the substance of the case no longer changes. Madam Minister, I ask again: has Marti Kuusik's case of domestic violence been closed? You said this thing had collapsed, there were no charges, and so on. Has this investigation been concluded, has it been concluded and, if so, with what results?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U418	I know what I read a few days ago in the Virumaa Journal. I think it was the local prosecutor who said there wasn't enough evidence. If there's not enough evidence, there's not enough guilt. That's all I can say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U419	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U420	Thank you. Good Helme! On September 12, last year, you told Jüri Ratas in Riigikogu Question Time: 'Do you acknowledge the fact that the Russian nation is a moment of additional risk and this has nothing to do with human rights or the Constitution? This is not discrimination if they are more closely controlled. ' In Pärnu Postimees on 15 September, you said: 'If we have risk groups, and it is clear that Russian-speaking people are a risk group, it may offend them, but we cannot play here on delicate emotions, we need to check these people more closely. ' You are the Minister of the Interior of the Government of the Republic. What steps have you taken to establish your words?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U421	I have spoken to the leaders of the institutions concerned about this, and I will not comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U422	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U423	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. You know, Mr Helme, if any minister of my government had lied so strongly about me or any of my colleagues, the paper would already be in Kadriorg and we would have a significantly shorter working day today. Right now, all the members of the Central Party have a place to think about how long you're gonna let George get taunted. It has long exceeded all the limits of tolerance. But you've been here for all these hours, extraordinarily emotionally overwrought and easily irritated. You don't remember important facts or you're deliberately wrong. You're saying, even as Minister of the Interior, you'll get your information on a criminal case from the media, the mainstream media. Oh, my God! Do you really believe that you are suitable for a minister who has a very large area of responsibility and whose words and actions depend very much on Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U424	Yeah, I think I'm fit to be a minister, and I'm better suited than most of the ministers of the Reform Party have ever been.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U425	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U426	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, If I remember correctly, the Reform Party has never sought a single power, but clearly coalition governments that are more broad-based. That's the opposite of you. But I understand that we must be careful when we quote things that you have said, published, that you have said directly in this Chamber. They're supposedly not always right. What you have said in this Chamber today, I think, would come together with a text of as long a motion of distrust as you have been handed over today. All the answers that you have given today, you have even called your own words, in principle, dirty in this very hall, leave this feeling of incompetence. How far could one minister in the Republic of Estonia go with such an unscrupulous state? We know that the case law is inconclusive for this person...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U427	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U428	... who are not responsible for their actions are treated differently. How far are we going with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U429	Actually, it wasn't a question, I don't know how to answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U430	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U431	Mr. Minister! In describing Estonia you wanted, you also said that violence in the relationship is a form of poverty. In fact, neither higher income nor multiple higher education protects anyone from close-relationship violence. You described an episode with the Prime Minister, and there has already been a lie. But your description was that four emotionally loaded men were supposedly calling a victim woman, and you assumed that she was honestly responding to something she may have tried to deny for several decades. It is completely incomprehensible to me that such immunity to facts and a lack of empathy. But, as you say, error is not lying. Yes, being wrong is not lying. How many times in an hour can the minister be wrong to remain reliable and capable of fulfilling his duties?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U432	I don't know what else I've been wrong about here. You think I'm a big mistake at all, that's perfectly understandable. But when it comes to emotionally loaded men, I'd say that we were trying to figure out what was really behind all these accusations. That's one. Secondly, now, more than a month later, these accusations have not been settled either, nor has the same woman said the opposite by answering even emotionally loaded men's questions. [[A voice from the hall.]] Well, I told you that you think I'm a mistake at all, so I'm always wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U433	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U434	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I'll help you out a little bit. You lied at first, claiming that the case had collapsed by quoting an article from the Virumaa Journal. The charge or summary will be made by Midsummer Day. So you quote wrong, this article never says that there is no evidence. It just shows that you think you're always right, you're never wrong, you're never sorry, you're threatening (you did it here repeatedly today), you're lying. At the same time, you think you're the smartest, best, fit for any job in the world. But you complain that you are being harmed, that the whole world is against you. Poor thing, I feel sorry for you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U435	Sorry, you consistently accuse me of lying. What did I lie about? I told you there wasn't enough evidence. The claim that the charges would be filed by Midsummer Day I heard from Lavly Perling that the charges would be filed in the coming week. The next week has become a month and a half, no charges have been filed. They're still checking things out. What did I lie about? Why are you twisting my words? Why are you trying to rip out some quotes and tell them that I'm lying? I'm not lying about anything, I'm talking about things the way I know these things, and as I've read about them, I quote from my memory. I have absolutely nothing to be ashamed of. And when it comes to pity, it can also be mutual.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U436	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U437	I'm gonna try some luck with the facts first. I'm just reacting to one of your previous answers, which wasn't really the answer to the question. The thought development was about that getting into the EKRE government will save Estonia from the great decline, that the people have left the country, that old people will more or less starve and the income of pensioners will decrease. I simply point out that if 2015 was an average pension of 308 euros, it was 430 euros at the beginning of this year, the Estonian population has grown over 10,000 people in the same period, and the return migration from Finland is greater than the migration to Finland. During this time, all the parties in this Chamber have been in power except yours. I don't understand exactly what kind of decline you're talking about. But the question is a follow-up to my previous question, the answer of which was incomprehensible: to whom is the Defence Police Department in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U438	For the Ministry of the Interior, he's the Ministry of the Interior. My reply meant that there is a monitoring committee of the special services in Parliament, which deals with the control of these special services, including foreign intelligence. That's not supposed to be a lie now. Obedience is one thing, and control is another. Control is not directly done by us, we are organising this work and the provision of resources so that this work can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U439	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U440	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister Mart Helme! The Chamber of the Riigikogu is spoken, asked and answered. Questions and answers are characterised by their authors. Asking a question to the Minister is a form of respect, and a questioner is waiting for the same behaviour. You have bounced back most of the questions in this Chamber today in a way that we would not expect from the Minister. I quote: 'Don't want my words to come true, you will be hurt. ' I don't want to get hurt, and I don't have many questions after you answer them, and I don't want to treat you as a respected minister. I will join Kristina Šmigun-Luke and do not ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U441	I thank you for your assessment of my humble personality.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U442	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U443	Thank you. Mr. Minister! When I came to this hall, I made a promise that I would not support your mistrust, and I will remain true to my words as usual. But I'm taking this opportunity to educate myself a little bit. We imagine an emotionally overwhelmed person who constantly lies and accuses others of lying, who insults others, but accuses them of being insulted, who threatens others, but thinks he is threatened. Such behavior, perhaps sympathetic to a small child, is either a manifestation of incompetence or a manifestation of sociopathy in an adult person. The question is this: would such a hypothetical person be suitable for the Minister of the Interior of a hypothetical country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U444	I think you've all noticed that the political style that has been restrained and everyone trying to please is in the world making a serious development of cancer. Of course, the most marked example is President Donald Trump. I think I represent his political style. I'm sure a lot of people don't like this political style, but I know that a lot of people do. I think that the Estonian society, which has been very deeply stagnated over a long period of time, needs some disengagement, and I think I am one of those breakers who makes the standing water move a little bit in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U445	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U446	Thank you. Since you didn't answer my previous question, I'm going to try out some facts that you have said yourself here (if they are facts). You said you've been in office for a month and you haven't had much to do yet. Today, in the Committee on European Union Affairs, you confirmed that the current migration policy has been sensible and you have a plan to continue with it. The EKRE has had no impact whatsoever on the formulation of these positions. Please do not attract hysteria as if the previous governments were somehow liberal in migration policy. You're just lying in that case. But I have a question, too. The Prime Minister usually sits in this hall in the government box. Why do you think he's not here today? Did he have any other, smarter things to do, or does he already suddenly apologize for your statements in this Riigikogu speech chair? Normally, yes, during the discussion of a motion of mistrust, the Prime Minister supports his teammate. He's not here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U447	I don't know what to say for the Prime Minister. As for the fact that you think I've lied again, I haven't lied about anything. I remember 2015 very well, I also reminded you in the Commission today, when huge hysteria broke out around the burning of the Vao refugee centre in this hall and in Estonia as a whole. EKRE was guilty, it was EKRE who wanted to kill niggers, and I don't know what it was all about! You may even understand that this hysteria was completely unfounded, just as there was some unwarranted hysteria of throwing stones at foreigners, just as there were baseless stories about how some of the Allied soldiers have been beaten and so on. Look who's lying in a society that's heating up hysteria in society, harming allies, I'm gonna ask you a question. You could say I'm attacking you again. But that's not what we've done, that's what someone else has done. Remember these moods and these facts, maybe the whole picture will take place in a slightly more panoramic direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U448	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U449	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mart, I've been following your behavior, now I've been listening to your belligerentness, hating the Reform Party. I was trying to figure out what the reason was, and, you know, I came up with a pretty unexpected idea. People divide by temperament into four: melancholy, flegmatic, sanguine, and colorects. I'm sorry, I'm a sanguine, or I wouldn't have been taken into armor. The last two are the most temperamental, especially the colonists, who are unbridled, have an instantaneous reaction and are characterized by immediate action, and then thinking. In the military, as well as in civil life around the world, it is actually an attempt to avoid assigning colliery to places of responsibility. I have a question: maybe you're a temperament colliery, and that's why you're having troubles and troubles today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U450	But I don't have any problems or troubles. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Trouble and trouble are mistrustful, dear friends! Look, it's like a crooked mirror! Zerkalny's effect, you should know what that means in Russian. I don't have any problems or troubles. I am undoubtedly a temperamental person, I have, after all, a considerable amount of Russian blood in my veins, and I have been one who has never crucified before since I was a child, when it was necessary to fight. So I don't have any problems. But once again I say: if you think that Estonia really will be among the five richest countries by ticking it on like this, you will be mistaken. Get people like me out of the way and Estonia will stagnate once and for all! Clean up the power and passionate people, and you'll end up where you don't want to end up! Believe me! Believe me, you need me!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U451	Marina Kaljurand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U452	Thank you. Mr. Helme! First of all, I dare argue: I do not need you as you perform here today. I have heard you many times in the Riigikogu, I have seen you in various debates. I think you once again showed yourself as an exceptionally incompetent Minister for the Interior, as a weak personality and as a person with memory problems. But that's it. Do you not find it strange that when you answer Jüri Jaanson's question about the criminal case or the termination of the proceedings, you quote the Virumaa Journal, not the institutions under your authority or the experts under your authority? It reminds me of the situation where you were talking about the eastern border, based on the information you received from the Nelli Journal. Don't you think it's strange that the Minister of the Interior is quoting the press instead of relying on the facts that his subordinates give him?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U453	I quoted the Nelli Journal because it confirmed my personal experience. I repeatedly crossed the southeast section of the Estonian-Russian border without being bothered by Estonian or Russian border guards. That means I was talking about how smuggling there is a simpler thing than simple, because we do not have border guards there. This was another confirmation of this in the printed version. As far as competent authorities are concerned, if I were to check the police or the prosecutor's office, I would be sitting on their backs right now, demanding all the information that is going on in this criminal investigation or investigation, or whatever we're going to name this thing, then I would be immediately guilty of abusing my position, interfering, influencing, and so on. That's why I won't do it. I'm not asking them for anything so you can't blame me for interfering and influencing. I don't interfere or influence, I'm absolutely not interested, and that's why I read about things in the paper. Thirdly, I have tried to be somewhat unsuccessful, true not to be very personal, but Marina Kaljurand was currently very personal to me in her assessments and it is not politically professional. I admit I'm wrong about it sometimes, I'm wrong about it today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U454	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U455	Thank you, Mr Vice-President of Parliament. Honourable! I will return to the text of the motion of mistrust and ask you about a section of the text of a particular question that you did not reply to in your initial report. Minister of Defence Jüri Luik said in ETV on 16 May: 'This Le Pen visit to Estonia was extremely regrettable. I fully agree that the fact that the members of the government accepted him - this led to a higher level of this visit. I am in a difficult situation in the sense that I have to go to Tapa tomorrow, welcome the new contingent of the French troops who arrive in Estonia, and inevitably the entire French media are full of this visit by Le Pen. So there is obviously reputational damage to Estonia here, it cannot be over or over. ' What do you say to your colleague, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U456	I say that, regrettably, the former Minister for Foreign Affairs does not understand the difference between national reception, party reception and personal, personal reception. In this case, I did not go to a meeting as a minister, but went as a party chairman. That right I have, that right no one can take away from me. As far as reputational damage is concerned, reputational damage has been caused by those who have made it just like some appalling event. Marine Le Pen is an intelligent, cultural person, he is not a cannibal, he is France's most popular politician. He is certainly very popular among many French soldiers who have come to this service. I think these French soldiers were very flattered that their most popular politician visited the country where they were serving. There's no reputational damage, that reputational damage only exists in your head.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U457	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U458	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Before you answered the question about money laundering, you said that you had received answers from officials to your questions, but these answers did not satisfy you. This clearly shows that you don't trust your officials. You also said that you will continue to ask until you have the right answers. This seems to be a clear pressure on the officials. Don't you think this will make it harder for you to work as a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U459	I don't think so. I think that the subordinates and the heads of the authorities are very pleased that I am trying to reach the bottom even on the most difficult issues, to complete clarity, not to slip superficially and not to have such a minister ticking by the grace of officials, as we have seen for years and years in general in Estonia. I think that the heads of the authorities are very pleased that there is a minister who is familiar with their work, with the specifics of their activities, and also with the complex issues they deal with, with a deep personal interest, with visits to the authorities, requests to the leaders, talks to them, raises issues on the table. I think they're very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U460	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U461	Thank you very much. I want to continue with Sven Mikser's question. Indeed, I am very, very disturbed when our independent, free, democratic state, restored 25 years ago, is compared to what was in the Soviet era. I'm a generation younger than you, you're my parents' age. Even I remember that in the 1980s Jüri Kukk died in a prison camp and Lagle Parek had to spend the best years of his life in a prison camp. I haven't seen my grandfather or his four brothers, and I've been told about June deportation, mobilization, occupation, prison camps. I think you're lying when you say you don't remember and you don't know what the Soviet order means.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U462	Yeah, well, whatever I do, you're totally obsessed with presenting me as a liar here. I'm not lying about anything. In my family, too, there are plenty of people in my family who have been deported, who have not returned. My father had to hide behind the drill for a long time because he had fought in the German uniform and had to buy a Soviet passport with the money he had borrowed and earned for the carving of wooden shoes, woodenware and toys. I know very well what it was like. I remember very well when I watched in Pärnu from Munamägi, when pampers wrapped in elongated tarps were removed from the truck, and the older boys knew they were the bodies of the forest brothers. I remember very well what my mother was called to the KGB, but at the time it was the NKVD. He came, he was totally hysterical and howling to cry. I remember it very well. I hated that order and I still hate it today. Don't put any Soviet nostalgia on my head! It doesn't exist! But there was no such thing as defamation through the media of the kind we have in Estonia today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U463	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U464	Thank you. Mart, you've been caught lying several times here today and accused of it, but you've mostly resisted and told me everyone else is lying. I'm offering you a lifeline. What happened to you in the presence of Jüri Ratas maybe Jüri Ratas is lying when he says he didn't make that call and he didn't take part in that call? He denied it the other day after the call was made. What if George's lying? Now, tell me the truth, you don't have to take the blame. The second question about the same subject. You're saying there's no charge against Marti Kuusik. But how do you know you're not coming? This could not be read from the Virumaa Official Journal. How do you know this isn't gonna come up?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U465	Look, if you say the papers write pure gold and pure truth, I will take it, and that's what I believe. Stupid person maybe I do. But as for Jüri Ratas and this so-called lie, I think I've already said three or four times that I may have been wrong, probably wrong, and I apologize to Jüri if he claims that he didn't participate in asking questions. That should be the end of this issue. How many more times do you ask? How many more times do you ask? Ask again, ask at once! Let's see everyone else who's gonna ask! Well, you see, we made a deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U466	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U467	Thank you. In response to Mr Mihkelson's question, you answered that Le Pen's visit here did not cause any reputational damage to Estonia, but you admitted that there may have been a reputational damage because both the newspapers and other publications of the Republic of Estonia and foreign countries miswritten it. This is a relatively peculiar position. In this context, I ask you, using a certain analogy. If this happens and this happens in the Republic of Estonia, unfortunately, that a man beats his wife, at one point it turns out that a man may have beaten his wife, and there are critical and negative stories about it, do you think the root of the problem is that a man beats his wife, or is the root of the problem that negative stories are written about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U468	The root of the problem is that the media presented it as a proven fact that it does not yet exist to this day. That's the problem. The media presents untrue or, let's say, biased information, putting it in contexts that are not legally competent. That's the problem. I don't see any other problem here. If it is true that this violence has been, then I will be the first to condemn it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U469	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U470	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable! Your performance today and your answers to the questions are enough reason why you should be distrusted in your office as Minister of the Interior. However, I would like an answer to another question. In the autumn of last year, when you were in opposition, you attacked the current Prime Minister of Ratas on the matter of the so-called credibility of the Russian nation in the Estonian state. You said it was a fact that the Russian nation needed additional security clearance and that it was not related to human rights or the Constitution. On 15 September, you told Pärnu Postimees that if we have risk groups, and it is clear that Russian-speaking people are a risk group, it may offend them, but we cannot play here on delicate emotions, we need to control these people more closely. Honourable, distrustful Minister of the Interior, are you of the same opinion today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U471	I am of the opinion that all those who are dangerous to Estonia's security need thorough control.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U472	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U473	Good Minister of the Interior! You were, unfortunately, wrong: Nelli's report was not about the southeast of the border, but about the Narva River. You claimed that crossing the border by the Narva River was undisbursed easy. As Minister of Home Affairs, you have stressed the task of establishing a military border guard as one of your most important tasks. Today, I heard to my great surprise that you are talking about an internal defence reserve, not armed border guards anymore. You've said at different times that our border guard's weapons are poor, training is poor, clothing is poor. We both know that's not really true. We both also know that the Police and Border Guard Board has a separate service of border guards and has a separate budget. I call on you to say that the border guard issue has been resolved, that we have a clearly defined border guard service in Estonia, and that is actually all right. But my question is, what is this mysterious reserve of internal defense?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U474	It was such a long story and consisted essentially of several accusations and several questions. Today we sat at the Ministry of the Interior with police representatives and other officials, we have done this more or less every day. All of them admit that our line is holed up right now. This also applies to the Narva River, where there are some places where it is relatively easy to cross the border and where this possibility is sometimes abused. The fact that these holes must be eradicated is our common goal, and that is what we are dealing with. What is this mysterious internal defense reserve? It's a multifunctional set of units. It provides training not only for border surveillance, it belongs to the Police and Border Guard Board, but also provides training and equipment to deal with mass riots in the event of a crisis, mass border crossings and many other such tasks. We are now in the final stages of programming, which provides what they have to do when the time is right. The deadline for its submission shall be 100 days. If I remember correctly, the proposals in this regard, but also the search for financial resources, should be completed by the beginning of August. Then we will certainly introduce these things here in the Riigikogu, if not elsewhere, then in the respective committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U475	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U476	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mart, you twice responded to your colleagues that the Russians are a security risk in Estonia and you are doing something to mitigate this security risk. Does it not seem to you that this statement is a little too voluminous to really be dealt with effectively? Are you going to control Russian officials, Russian military, Russian local government characters? How do you intend to approach this issue so that you can keep to your point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U477	Well, I didn't say all the Russians were. I said that all people who may be dangerous to Estonia's security deserve thorough control. Maybe more thorough control than we've done so far. I understand very well that we are not going to say how much, let's say, the Russian-speaking population is going to pass an X-ray somewhere. I also understand very well that practice shows that traitors are among other nations. So I say again: all those who pose a heightened threat to the security of the Republic of Estonia deserve more in-depth control than they have done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U478	Marina Kaljurand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U479	Thank you. Mr. Helme! As a former member of the government, I would advise you in the future to rely on the opinion of experts and not on what is written in newspapers. Since you did not answer Marko Mihkelson's or Siim Kallas' questions, I ask you a third time: do you still think that Russian people need to be controlled more than Estonians?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U480	I will not answer that question either, because I have already answered twice. As for the newspapers, by the way, you read the papers and you believe the newspapers. Or do I misunderstand something?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U481	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U482	Minister, I just have to say that what you described under the internal defence reserve is rapid response units that were launched a few years ago. I still call on you to say that what we are talking about is strengthening the border guard. Yes, there are unfortunately many gaps on our borders, our border guards need money, they also need higher wages, they need strengthening, but they do not need separate reform. There is no need to rename high-speed responders as an internal defence reserve in order to improve the border guard service.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U483	I don't agree with you, by the way, the people I've met at the Police and Border Guard Board, but also at the Defence Police Department, who say we have too few rapid reactioners, the number of quick reactioners is too low. It is not easy to set up a rapid response unit, because those people who are still subject to very special requirements are currently not enough to be trained specifically. That is why we are going to increase the number of people who may also be rapid responseers, in addition to being at the border more permanently. Our plan to increase their number is, I'd say, pretty impressive.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U484	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U485	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister! We are talking here about the security clearance of the Russian people. I'm not going to repeat what's being defined, who's a threat to security right now. You said yourself a moment ago that you had a lot of Russian blood. Do you belong to the risk group in this case too?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U486	Apparently, I do, because the state secret permit has not just been granted to me, but has still been subject to checks. What is this criterion? The criterion is very clear and very simple: people who are in certain positions, people who apply for a state secret or NATO secret permit or other permits, of course, must go through control. I dare say, looking at how many traitors we've caught so that these controls can be even more thorough.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U487	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U488	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. Why are we all here for so long? But because we really want to trust you. In fact, the Estonian people expect it, they listen and look at every answer you say today. You have here assessed the various silly words of the human groups. I took it in connection with what you said: the people who pose a security risk. How do you define those people who pose a security risk? You have already defined that the press is slanderous, you are those people who dare to ask questions on behalf of the people, we represent people from outside, all those people who have not blamed in this hall...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U489	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U490	That's the question. How do you identify those who pose a security risk? And the second question: do you...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U491	Thank you. Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U492	... personally does not pose a security risk to our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U493	I said just a moment ago: people who are applying for positions where responsibility must be given to ensure that state secrets are protected are clearly a risk group. These people are being double-checked. In the case of certain posts, I believe that people should be checked more closely. This is the criterion for determining the risk. As far as I am concerned personally, I have received all authorisations of state secret, so competent bodies do not regard me as a security risk to the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U494	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U495	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Your responses today sounded through certain Soviet nostalgia on several occasions. Isn't it because the press at the time and the press today are fundamentally different? At that time, the press only wrote what was promised, and this press, which is today, writes about everything that it thinks it is necessary to write about.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U496	Once again, the accusations in Soviet nostalgia are simply out of place, they are simply out of place. My grandfather fought in the War of Independence; my father fought in the summer war of 1941; in 1944 he was on the Narva front; last he fought the battle of Avinurme. You know, don't blame me for things like this, they're just insulting and inappropriate accusations. As far as the press is concerned, we know very well how this media works today. But as far as Soviet nostalgia is concerned, I did not work in a press that dealt with ideology, I worked in children's journalism, I wrote stories and poems for children. Look, I was such a nice person.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U497	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U498	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Mart! We've both lived in this world for a long time, seen one and the other from one side and the other, right? We have been in opposition together and we have seen censures, their proceedings and debates, both on the one hand and now on the other. As an experienced politician, how would you judge today's parliamentary method? This is a normal parliamentary method, applicable and feasible everywhere in Parliament. What impression did you have: was it properly planned and carried out? Did you like it or did you not like it? Your assessment, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U499	Well, actually, it's great because the opposition is doing their job. But as I said to Mr Lotman, the time of this political style, when everyone was cute and wiggy, I am also tied, but I may be wearing a tie as a certain relic, is over. We live in a completely different time, with a different political style. I am not afraid to say that Estonian politics also needs this other political style, needs sharpness, needs a resurrection, maybe needs some shock. You know what I'm saying: I couldn't have imagined that I had some actress blood in me before I came into politics. But now it turns out I have a little bit of it in me. Think of it as a certain show from me!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U500	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U501	Thank you. Some time ago, a colleague from the Reform Party Group asked why we are silent here, why we are not asking questions. My answer is that I'm very interested in listening to what's going on here and trying to remember. I will try to remember how the Reform Party defends the rights of the Russians, the same party that tries to leave the Russian children without secondary school education. I'm trying to remember that the first person in this hall in 20 years has been interested in what kind of blood flows into someone's veins in this case, in your veins, is also from the Reform Party. So I'm sorry. But today, although ideologically we do not fit together and hardly ever can agree on a few issues: welcome, live man, to the Mummy Hall!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U502	Thank you. Minister, it seems that there are no more questions for you. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U503	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A few remarks about today's debate, which did not offer anything very new about itself to people who have heard about Mart Helmet and his partymates here or elsewhere over the years, but certainly, in summation of such a period of speaking, gives a good understanding of why the EKRE is, in the opinion of the social democrats, still unmanageable, because in fact, in its content and style, it does not share the constitutional values of Estonian society. But a few remarks about what we heard today. In the end, we were not answered in a clear way about the risk to the security of people with other native languages and other ethnicities. The Secretary of the Interior said that 300,000 people couldn't get through the X-ray. It reminded me of the former director of the Stasi. When there were riots in East Germany and the Berlin Wall was brought down, the director general of Stasi came to Honecker and said that we couldn't beat up 20,000 people on the streets. This was not an ethical assessment, but an assessment that it was physically impossible to do so. When the Minister of the Interior in a democratic country says that you can see it is not possible to let 300,000 people through the X-ray, it sounds a little like that. After all, these somewhat similar historical parallels are the ones that make people who feel better about the social and historical sediment layer worry about what is happening. If Mart Helme says that the deportation in his picture is in no way the original part of the Soviet regime because he did not live at that time, it is probably also a reason why some of his party members justify Nazi Germany (gas chamber games and that Hitler built powerful roads). Helme justifies all this because he didn't live at that time, and I suppose so. The whole thing, I think, has been summed up most precisely by Eero Epner a few years ago when he named his Postman's opinion story 'The Evil normalisation'. Maybe it's a process that's going to happen gradually. At first, certain statements, certain acts receive great resonance, they are reacted to, they are confronted, but there is a gradual process of normalisation, and then we do not even notice such things anymore. The problem is that Mart Helme says, you see, the time for such a politically correct, democratic, peaceful policy is over, and now comes a new policy, but we actually know that this new policy has existed in history and that it has always started from the normalisation of evil, from the same stunning, and finally led to where it has taken it out. It follows from this, too, that what is happening now is a very similar process. History in general teaches that similar processes can have similar consequences. If we don't notice, we're doing it very wrong. I wanted to say something else, but to be honest, that's enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U504	Thank you. Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U505	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We presented a motion of mistrust where we said that a person who humiliates, insults, threatens, accuses, does not qualify as Minister of the Interior. We saw and you all saw for two hours the same insult, humiliation, threats, accusations. The Minister of the Interior was caught in a number of lies in this very hall, including a lie about the Prime Minister. Now the question is for you, the good Members of the Fatherland and the good members of the Centre Party: is the person who does all this in front of you, not using it to apologize for two hours, to readjust words, to explain his views, to justify them, to be the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia in 2019? If you think it is okay and all these views, all these statements are a new normality that must be accepted, then of course, support the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helmet, and vote against his mistrust. However, if you find that you do not want the Republic of Estonia, where it is a new normality, please support the submission of mistrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U506	Thank you. Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U507	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today has been an exciting debate, the questions were from the wall to the wall and the answers were also interesting. But there's a lot of lies left, especially the questioners. I did take notes in the office during the hearing and in this very hall, of what someone has said, what words have been released here and where there are specific lies inside. The first reason for mistrust is according to Mrs Kallas the Marti Kuusik case. Marti Kuusik reportedly beat up a woman at home, said she was abusing violence. This was also stated in this Chamber in the case of the MP Vilja Toomas. I paraphrase his words: the woman has suffered prolonged violence. Perhaps a sign has been put on a person again, as if it were a villain who beats a woman at home. During the hearing, I read an interview with the assistant prosecutor of the Viru District Prosecutor's Office for the aforementioned newspaper Virumaa Journal, where he clearly said that more evidence was needed in order to raise suspicion. Maybe three days ago, according to the ADA, we were in a state of no evidence to present a suspicion. And this is where a person gets crucified that he's a criminal. For this reason, because a journalist takes the authority to stamp a man, the President will also come to this hall with a free-chosen sweater and demonistically crucify a man. We don't even have any doubts, so there's no evidence. Such a thing cannot be blamed on Mart Helme, or the Minister of the Interior, and therefore mistrusted. Next thing you know, Marine Le Pen's visit was for another reason. I would like to ask why, for example, a few years ago, the Reform Party Prime Minister did not interrupt relations with France when France urged to sell warships to Russia at a time when Russia carried out aggression in Ukraine and Georgia. Remember, Mistral's sale was canceled because of American pressure. Let us now look at the political reality. Perhaps in a few years, the Reform Party will be back in government, perhaps even the Prime Minister of the Reform Party, and if it happens that in 2022 the presidential elections will be won by the Marine Le Pen, then take your words out of the verbatim and go warm up your relations with your allies! The minister may also be the chairman of a party, it is a customary practice, and there are relations between the parties. We have never hidden that we consider it necessary to be at the table with partners with whom not all our views coincide. Just as the Reform Party in the European Parliament is sitting with the Central Party, Yana Toom. What do we do now? Perhaps there is a great deal of double morals, hypocrisy, and we are being reproached for things where the reproacher himself actually bears much greater guilt. There were also complaints about the president that he had been called. I did some of the interviews the president has given. He has said that a shitstorm is constantly coming from the Estonian government and from the mouth of some ministers. The President of the Republic of Estonia calls the government of the Republic of Estonia in such words! And it's no reputational damage, not at all! Migration was the subject of many times. In particular, Mr Rõivas and Mr Palling raised the question of whether the new Minister for the Interior approved the previous migration policy. However, the replies forgot to mention the facts, which took place in September 2015. I can remind you. I myself was there at the committee meeting, where, in fact, even as a member of the young Riigikogu, a bag was pulled deep into my head. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U508	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U509	At the end of March, I took my oath, and at the end of August, if I remember correctly, there was a question on the table about the distribution of voluntary refugees. Ministers, in particular Hanno Pevkur, the Minister of the Interior at the time, and other representatives of the Government, repeatedly confirmed that this was only a voluntary system, and no compulsory system existed or would occur. Okay, I did. I was a fool to believe! So what happened at the Home Affairs Council in Brussels? Some countries disagreed. Poland and Hungary voted against, because of their opposition, the matter went to a vote where the quota system was imposed by a qualified majority. As a result, these two countries went to the European Court of Justice. A judgment came from the European Court of Justice: you are not complaining, a compulsory system! That was the decision. Perhaps the Estonian Minister for the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, voted in favour of these quotas. On a voluntary basis, of course, he voted voluntarily! But that was half the result of the fraud. I am more than sure that if today were to have exactly the same vote in the Council of Ministers of the Interior, Mart Helme would be at the table there, and it should be decided whether he will vote in the same way as Germany and, for example, Italy, who wants compulsory quotas, or Poland and Hungary, he would certainly vote in the same way as Poland and Hungary. Maybe that's what the next lie's over. Disparaging or taunting journalists. Somehow there's a background that journalists are free to do anything, anything they want. I don't care! That they're higher than the judiciary, the DA's office, the police, they're taking down the ministers, they're hitting on the temples that somebody's built houses without a building permit. Some journalists may also designate a minister as pollution directly on a national broadcasting radio broadcast. The next journalist, though in private media, complained about the fact that no, you know, EKRE's trouble is not rhetoric at all, the content is appalling. Let us finally decide what is the problem, whether rhetorical or content. They can say anything, anything they want. Let's look at the reflections of the last three or four years in the United States of America, which has been done by the correspondent of the ERR. I have never seen a reflection saying that you know there is reason to believe that Donald Trump has never actually received money from Russia. It has always been a feature that Donald Trump is involved with the Russians, the elections have been influenced by Russia, a terrible human being who wants to send poor migrants back from the Mexican border. So if you think that journalists are free to do whatever they want and that they have the power of justice, then you're wrong. It can't be! Finally, we are talking about reputational damage. A few days after the elections, Kaja Kallas, leader of the opposition party, said to The Economist: 'They want to destroy everything' and compared Estonia to Moldova. I don't know if Kaja Kallas has been to Moldova. It's me. If anyone claims that we are comparable to Moldova, this is the real damage to Estonia's reputation, not the fact that there are three political parties in the Government of the Republic who have received the support of the majority of the Estonian people in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U510	Thank you. There's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations and we will go to the vote. I'm sorry! A grain of Thomas, a request for a reply? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U511	A request for a reply because my name was mentioned. I would like to say to Mr Madison that most of you may not have been trained in close-relationship violence, and I have been through it differently from you. It is, as I said, that most of these accusations will not be presented in the end. If it turns out that this wasn't the case, I'm really going to apologize to Marti Kuusik, but if I find out that the charge has been dropped because there isn't enough evidence, I'm certainly not gonna do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U512	Thank you. There are no more requests for reply, we can go to the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the publication of censure by the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of expressing censure, 53 against and no abstentions. Therefore, the Minister of the Interior of the Riigikogu did not express distrust for Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-03_U513	Ladies and gentlemen, today's working day is not yet over. We all have the opportunity to participate in a free microphone. Anyone who wants a word, after the hammer hit, please! There are no words in the free microphone. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 20.55 a.m.
