ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U1	Good afternoon, respectables. We will begin the second plenary session of the Riigikogu with the Monday session of the 7th working week. As usual, first of all there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Urmas Kruuse will be the first to come here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I have the opportunity to address an inquiry to our Prime Minister, Jüri Ratas, and this concerns the activities of a minister. In fact, the listerial scandal has taken on new developments, precisely because the Minister has been dissatisfied and vassive in public statements and seems to have had a short memory. Last week we learned that although at some point his memory reached the strawberry mix of the central market in Tallinn, it turns out that he was actually first exposed to the listeria problem as early as 12 June at the factory of this same company. Since the Prime Minister has promised the public at the press conference that he will help the public in every way, I hope he will also help the members of the Riigikogu to find out whether the Minister has lied and killed. Since the Minister has said that he is not lying, the Prime Minister has expressed his wish to see and see this correspondence. We hope that the members of the Riigikogu will also be able to familiarise themselves with this correspondence in order to understand and understand why such a complex, difficult and sometimes tragic subject must be so much impaled and ambiguity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U3	Next, a representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, a draft law amending consumer protection law and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Secondly, the draft law ratifying the Investment Protection Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu in the proceedings of the aforementioned bill in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U5	Thank you! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Now comes the presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu are present, 18 are missing. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 7th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, 0 against and 1 abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U6	Now let's go to today's agenda. We have an inquiry, and after that, everyone who wishes to do so will have the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone. Today we are planning an inquiry into the financing of road construction submitted by members of the Riigikogu Aivar Sõerdi, Andres Suti, Taavi Rõivas, Kaja Kallas, Annely Akkermanni, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Heiki Kranich, Jürgen Ligi, Riina Sikkut, Maris Lauri, Kalvi Tõvi, Ivari Padari, Heljo Pikhofi, Urmas Kruuse, Katri Raigi and Jüri Jaanson on 16 September (No 4). I'm gonna do a little bit of a review of how today's trial is proceeding. First of all, the representative of the heirs will be speaking for 5 minutes, then the minister's answer will be up to 15 minutes, and each member of the Riigikogu may ask one question, which will last up to one minute. After that, negotiations will begin. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Riigikogu, would first like to ask for a representative of the controllers of the remote control.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Riigikogu! Dear Minister, First of all, I would remind you that the inquiry took place in mid-September. In the meantime, it's been a month and a half. In mid-September, the government only started preparing the state budget for the following year. We know that today the government of the state budget has completed and submitted to the Riigikogu, and the first reading has already taken place. However, with regard to the financing of roads, even in the situation where we have the state budget on the table, there are still open questions regarding the financing of roads. Thanks to the fact that time has passed and the budget is there, it is now possible to focus more specifically on these issues. I'm not going to read these questions again, but I'd say they're all still topical. Today's pages show that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has just completed the road-housing plan for 2021 to 2030 and, consequently, it is already possible to ask more precisely how the financing of the roads provided for in this new road-housing plan is planned in the budget framework for next year. And, of course, given the focus of our questions of inquiry, we are particularly interested in how the budget for next year plans the design, planning, planning, construction of new four-line roads. For example, in the case of the Tallinn-Tartu highway, we are talking about this route that extends beyond Mäo. In the direction of Pärnu and Narva, the same story is about new roads. As we know, there is a section on the existing four lines, such as the Tallinn Road of Tartu Võõbu It's a matter of how well it's in place, but it's there. The question is how further activities are planned and funded. The years preceding the completion of the current sections must be used to design new four-line roads, land planning, land purchase and possibly construction. We await with great interest the Minister's answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U8	Thank you. Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, will answer the question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U9	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, I have come to understand the question of financing the preparation of future projects. There was concern that no funding was foreseen. One thing we can agree on is that the budget has been transferred and that funding for future projects is also foreseen in the budget. So we can take it easy on the job. The question of questioning also concerned whether 2 + 1 or 2 + 2 roads would be planned in the future. And as I have already answered in writing, 2 + 2 roads are planned. It was also a question of PPP projects. And the answer is that, at the moment, there is a legal framework for the implementation of these projects. These were, in short, three types of questions that were put to me, as well as three brief answers to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U10	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. First, please, in Taavi's garment!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U11	Thank you, good minister. Such a thing my eyes have never seen before in this Riigikogu that a whole series of questions are being forwarded to which concrete answers are expected, and you merely label them superficially, about which you might be talking about in those answers that you do not agree to convey to us. The only option would actually be for you to read the detailed answers to all the specific questions here in front of us. But I'm going to start with one particular question and put it this way. Despite the huge number of decibels that were discussed this summer on four-line roads, the current government has actually reduced four-line road money in the budget. According to officials, the section of Tartu Road Kose has already been budgeted in 2016 without funding for about 38 million euros. How do you comment on that? There is a lot of talk about four-line roads, but in reality you have reduced their funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U12	Thank you. As I said to start with, the main question was whether the state budget has the means to plan and design in the future. And, as I said, these funds are provided for in the state budget. I therefore assure you that the specific answer to the question is actually included in the state budget. Now, as far as the means of building roads are concerned, let me say once again that, first of all, we will make sure that these roads can be built within the framework of PPP projects. I really hope that's how it is, all the signs point to it being that way. But there's nothing reduced. In fact, the 29 million you talked about, we assume that this money comes from the performance reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U13	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U14	Honourable Chairman! Good waitress! I understand that you are used to answering the opposition's questions in the Tallinn City Council with such an arrogant style or, let's say, more precisely, not to reply. You could get used to the new role now. At the top of the Riigikogu, where you communicate with the entire Estonian people, you should read the answers thoroughly. But my question concerns your office as mayor of Tallinn when you repeatedly applied for money to help the state co-finance the renovation of St. Petersburg Road. Now you're the Minister of the Economy. When will the money come to the city of Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U15	Thank you. You have a very good question, really great. I would very much like to see this road repaired in the near future. I can assure you that next year the reconstruction of Väo intersection will begin, and then we will be able to look further.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U16	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs has told ERR that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been entrusted with the task of submitting by November a road safety plan for state roads, which also reflects the development of all sections of Axis 2+2. Now this road-saving plan has been completed and there is also a state budget. Please describe which development activities are planned next year in the road maintenance plan for the development of new 2 + 2 road sections in the direction of Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and Narva. And tell me more specifically how much money is meant for planning, how much land to acquire and how much to design and what is the total amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U18	Thank you. In the next four years, this is the plan for 2020-2023, that's what it's gonna be. But first, I would like to make it clear that we had a working meeting on the road plan, and the Road Administration was tasked with improving the road plan, clarifying it. I have not personally seen this refined version, so to say that the road plan is definitely ready, it is a little premature. But now for the construction of 2 + 2 road sections in the next four years. First of all, the Narva highway Väo node is scheduled for 2021. Next year, the construction of the 2+2 section of Haljala will be completed. Between 2020 and 2022, the construction of Kose was completed in section 2 + 2 of Mäo. For 2021, the construction of Sauga-Pärnu road and the construction of the section of Pärnu-Uulu for 2021-2023 is planned. The construction of the Russian knot on the Tallinn ring road will be completed in 2020 and Swan will also be completed in 2020. The construction of Kanama has been planned for the years 2020 to 2022. As I said, it will soon be clear whether we can do PPP projects. And as stated in the budget, there will be EUR 4 million next year to prepare them for the next possible section of the road. This will include, in particular, the case of financing through PPP projects for preliminary projects and the acquisition of road land.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U19	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U20	Thank you, Minister. There is a specific question about this question. Are there 2 + 1 or 2 + 2 highways of Mäeküla detour and Põltsamaa detour already completed in Question Time on 11 September? How many kilometres 2 + 1 highways and how many kilometres 2 + 2 highways from Tallinn towards Tartu will be completed in the next four years?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U21	Thank you. As I replied in writing, the design of these paragraphs has not yet begun. When they are designed, they are designed as 2+2 roads. How many kilometers are being built? I can certainly answer for the next year when the Võõbu section is completed, about 16 to 17 kilometres. Whether and to what extent the rest of the construction work is being carried out, I repeat once again, it depends on whether or not the PPP option is being used.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U22	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Your answers today are, to put it mildly, very informative, especially given that the respondents have not asked one question, but have asked even seven questions. But your answer is as close as you gave me to my written question. When we talk about road construction, parts of it are definitely different nodes, including roundabouts. My particular interest has been the circle of Tartu Riga. Now I can ask you publicly again what you have not responded to in writing. Is it true that the construction of this roundabout has been delayed since 2020? Why and whose decision has the construction been postponed? Your answer did not provide any answers to any of the questions I asked. Have you now been able to clarify the circumstances? Are you able to answer me here today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U24	Thank you. Indeed, the construction of this section of the road has been delayed in the road safety plan. And the reason for delaying the construction of this section of the road is very simple: this section was not mentioned in the budget strategy. He was in the road plan, but not in the budget strategy. And today it's really postponed, if I'm not mistaken, to 2024.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U25	Thank you. Kristen Michal gave a hand signal. Is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U26	Good manager! I have a procedural question. The speaker, Minister Taavi Aas, claimed that he had answered these questions in writing. Where would a simple member of the Riigikogu or the public get to know their written answers? Where would it be if the minister claims that he has responded in writing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U27	Thank you. I can't answer that, but the Urmas Kruus question made me realize that he had written answers. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U28	Thank you, Mr President. I specifically asked the minister only about the roundabout of Tartu, Riga, and I have not asked about the rest of the topics. So I cannot have a say on any other issues that other members of the Riigikogu have put forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U29	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U30	Thank you. Good President, perhaps you would like to clarify to the Riigikogu, the Minister and the Estonian public that replying to an inquiry is an oral format in which we cannot blame the Minister for not sending written answers. But the fact is that we have not received written answers from him. It is therefore entirely inappropriate that the Minister constantly refers to some written answers which have not been sent or received. Could you please tell the Minister that he should answer all seven questions specifically as prescribed by the format?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U31	Thank you. I believe the Minister heard it himself, and I do not have to pass it on. Let's get back to the questions. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. As a former mayor of Tallinn, you are certainly aware of the importance of creating a small roundabout for Tallinn and for neighbouring municipalities. My question is as follows: what is the personal position of today's government and yours regarding the need to build a small roundabout in Tallinn and whether and when the necessary financial resources for its construction will be provided? A few questions ago, you also touched on the so-called road map project that you have discussed at the working meeting. Is the construction of a small ring road also included in this project?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U33	Thank you. I continue to support the construction of Tallinn's small roundabout, which I consider to be a very important subject. A small roundabout has been mentioned in the road plan; according to current plans, work is likely to start in 2024. As for the discussion, how much I answered the questions, indeed, there were seven questions, but I thought they were quite precise. The first three questions concerned whether there is money in the state budget for further road design and, as I said, this money is available in the state budget. You have all been able to make sure of that, because the state budget has been presented. The fourth question concerned the Mäeküla detour: is it a 2 + 1 or a 2 + 2 road? And as I said, all roads will be designed as 2 + 2 highways in the future. Then there were questions about possible PPP projects in road construction. And as I said, the legal basis for PPP projects is currently being developed. There is simply no precise answer to that at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U34	Thank you. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U35	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I understand that you are inexperienced in answering questions in the Riigikogu. I suggest you take this question and read the questions one by one. Read the first question and answer, the second question and answer. That is exactly how the Riigikogu responds to an oral question. My request is for you to answer the questions exactly as I have just described to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U36	Thank you. The first question: 'What are the reasons why the Government rejected the Road Administration's request to allocate EUR 5 million from the state budget each following year in order to plan and design new four-line roads and to buy the land for four-line construction of three main roads? " The Answer. In spring, the government office decided to approve both the state budget strategy for the years 2020 to 2023 and the draft State Budget Act 2020 with a supranational consolidated deficit. It was also decided to return to the various decisions relating to cost savings and possible additional costs in the autumn budget process after the Ministry of Finance had submitted a summer economic forecast. According to the decision of the Government Office of 19 September and the draft State Budget Act for 2020 approved by the Government of the Republic on 24 September and submitted to the Riigikogu, 4 million euros will be allocated for the design and purchase of land on the main roads in four rows next year. The second question: 'The Director-General of the Road Administration has announced that under the current road-saving scheme road investments will fall to nothing between 2023 and 2024. Will you accept this situation and the poor state of road investment, or will the government be prepared to change this direction in the state budget next year? " The Answer. The state's investment opportunities will become apparent during the preparation of the state's budget strategy and annual budgets. At present, a new road-saving plan is being drawn up, reflecting both 2020/2023. Government decisions taken on the RES 2009 and on the state budget for 2020. Among other things, the project preparation volume will be increased by 4 million euros and the construction of gravel roads will be increased by 10 million euros. It should be noted here that the current national budgetary strategy does not include the European Union's resources for the budgetary period starting in 2021, as negotiations with the European Union institutions are still ongoing. The current road maintenance plan for the years 2018 to 2022 has been drawn up in autumn 2018, based on 2019 to 2022. The 2009 national budgetary strategy and the 2019 budget. The road plan includes, inter alia, the indicative funding needs of national roads for the years 2023 to 2027. The indicator provides an opportunity to better plan resources over the years and depending on the country's ability to carry out projects earlier, postpone them or look for other funding options. In addition, there are opportunities to carry out major road construction projects in the context of averus, or private-public cooperation. Question 3: "Is the Government prepared to reconsider the application of the Road Administration when preparing the state budget plan for next year? If so, what amounts will be planned for the next year's state budget for planning, designing and purchasing new four-line sections of the Tartu road and the rest of the main roads? " The Answer. According to the decision of the Government Office of 19 September and the draft State Budget Act for 2020 approved by the Government of the Republic on 24 September and submitted to the Riigikogu, 4 million euros will be allocated for the design and purchase of land on the main roads in four rows next year. Question 4: "Are the projects already completed by Mäeküla bypass and Põltsamaa bypass mentioned by you in Question Time on 11 September 2 + 1 or 2 + 2 roads? " The Answer. Järva County Elder's Order No 423 of 31 November 2012 established the theme plan of the Tallinna-Tartu-Võru-Luhamaa road is designed as the 2 + 2 highways of Mäeküla and Põltsamaa. The design of Mäeküla and Põltsamaa bypass has not yet started, as the objects are not fixed in the road management plan of state roads. The Road Administration and Põltsamaa rural municipality are in the process of negotiating the preparation of the Põltsamaa bypass project and issues related to the ownership of the roads in the region. The basic solution for the cross-section of the bypass and Põltsamaa bypass road in Mäeküla will be decided in the new 2021.2030. In the 2000 Road Management Plan. Question 5: Does the private sector retain the construction risk with design or in any case the obligation to prepare a project remain with the State in the case of a possible road construction plan in the form of public-private partnerships? " The Answer. A more detailed framework for the implementation of the construction project in the form of public-private partnerships is under preparation. In addition to financing, Averus also provides for the construction of a basic project, the construction and maintenance of a section of the road up to the end of the life cycle of a section of the road. Prior to the award of the Averus contract, it is reasonable that the preliminary project and the environmental impact assessments should be prepared and the necessary land should be disposed of. Question 6: 'The European Court of Auditors prepared a report in 2018 entitled 'Public-Private Partnership in the EU: Many Deficiencies and Little Benefits'. Have you read this report? ' And the seventh question: 'The projects carried out by the European Court of Auditors in cooperation with the public and private sectors were subject to significant delays in project completion and higher than planned costs, the risk of insufficient competition and the inadequacy of long-term contracts with rapid technological progress. Do you think that the undesirable risks identified in the Special Report of the European Court of Auditors may also be highlighted in Estonia for PPP projects? ' And the answer. We have examined the audit of the European Court of Auditors and we will certainly take into account the observations and risks presented in the audit in the preparation of the average projects. The Ministry of Finance has also started to develop the principles and guidelines necessary to implement the averus in order, among other things, to prevent the risks mentioned in the audit from materialising in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U37	Thank you. The question is Annely Akkermann. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U38	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. I think that these questions have now been taken up by those in the Chamber who have not signed this inquiry. Thank you so much for going over this again. My question is wider on the issue of electrification of the rail network in the Committee on Economic Affairs today. There has been very little talk about Rail Baltic lately, but it is known that it will take a huge amount of building resources. We know that for 2 + 2 sections of the road, a kilometer costs EUR 4 to 5 million. But has it been calculated whether there will be enough mineral resources for all these large-scale investments and whether companies will be able to build and guarantee their work?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U39	Thank you. You really have a very good question. First of all, if you start with mineral resources, you will no doubt have to do a lot of work so that we can obtain minerals as close to the objects as possible. It is not an easy process, but it is quite a complicated process. The Government of the Republic is currently discussing ways forward. Not today, but in a few years' time, the biggest difficulties can occur in Harjumaa. As far as the ability of companies to cope with the construction of all road objects is concerned, we really need to think through what year and how much we can build. But it's still international procurement. So I very much hope that if construction decisions are made, the builders will be ready to build these objects as well. We cannot fail to mention here that we have been talking so long about four-line roads that I think it is high time we finally built them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U40	Thank you. Katri Raik.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U41	Minister, thank you very much. Today, on my question, not only do I rely on the North Coast newspaper, but you did not consider it to be a sufficiently reliable source, but this time the capital of the newspaper has also quoted the North Coast. Obviously, it's more reliable. In March 2018, your predecessor, Kadri Simson, said that a four-line road will be completed between Jõhvi and Narva by 2025. I understand that there is a theme plan now, while there is no active design work on this section of the road. What's your view? What about the plan, which is very welcome, to build the Jõhvi-Narva highway into four lines?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U42	Thank you. I can tell you what's in the road plan. As I said, the work on the Narva road in Tallinn has been planned. The Haljala section will be completed next year. From there will be Maardu-Jägala in the years 2024-2025, Loksa's special level intersection 2029-2030, Põdruse special level intersection 2029-2030, Sõmeru special level intersection 2029-2030, Jõhvi-Toila intersections 2026, 2027 and 2028, Toila intersection Sillamäe 2030, from Sillamäe to Narva 2028-2030. And there's another possible intersection in Sillamäe by 2024. That's the perspective we're seeing. Once again, in order for these objects to be ready faster, I actually see no other option than to use PPP projects. This is because we all know the rule of the balance of the state budget. And this rule allows us to take out a loan, our loan burden is very low, but unfortunately we cannot use that loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U43	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U44	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You have now had to explain in some way what has happened to this road maintenance. But what I understand is that you just took tens of millions of millions less out of road maintenance, I do not know whether 29 million or 38 million or how much less you took, and you have come up with a bright blue dream that the performance reserve of the European Union's Structural Funds can somehow level out the situation, so you can get more money from it. I ask what is the basis of your bright blue dream that the European Commission will authorise the use of the performance reserve for roads. And what is your answer to all the people of South Estonia if you do not get this approval and the deficit of the road safety plan in building four-line roads is really 30 or 40 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U45	Thank you. I remain optimistic that co-financing or financing by the European Union is possible to this extent. I think that our Ministry of Finance employs sufficiently competent officials who are able to assess the situation and who were able to confirm that funding in this amount is possible to this extent. I trust them completely. I see no reason to start looking for plan B at this point, so what happens if you don't. I think he can.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U46	Thank you. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U47	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with the question of my benchmate, Mr. Gridship. It is actually great that you still support the construction of a small roundabout in Tallinn. The question is this. You said the roundabout could be built by 2024. What is the amount of money it takes to complete this project? And is the idea that the project will be completed in one year and extends from Lasnamägi to Viljandi highway? Is it gonna be done at the same time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U48	Thank you. I said, perhaps not quite clearly then, that this project would start in 2024. This is a major project, and the road maintenance plan provides for the years 2024 to 2028 at the time of its construction. It is too early to assess the cost of the project today. First, we need to decide whether to go under the runway. Getting under the runway requires a lot of work. Because of the wet soil, pumping stations must be built there, which is already expensive. Secondly, the operation of these pumping stations is also expensive. The alternative is to build a road around the airport. So first we have to agree on what the path is, and only then can we begin to evaluate the cost of the object. As far as I know, the Tallinn Utilities Department is already working on finding the optimal route. [[There's a comment in the hall.]] Here are the indicative amounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U49	Thank you. Next, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with the question of road construction in relation to public-private cooperation. You have mentioned a few times today in this remote control that there is currently the development of legal bases for PPP projects. Can you please tell me when they will be completed? Secondly, what are the main points of dispute? In fact, I also have a question of curiosity: are there any partners in Estonia willing to participate in such projects?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U51	Thank you. First of all, I'm sure private companies have an interest in it. But, as I said, it will be an international procurement, so I will not exclude that multinational groups will also participate in these procurements. It is true that they are, to a large extent, subscribing to Estonian companies. But who, in the case of really going to this PPP option, are those who are taking part, it is still difficult to say today. Now, since the Ministry of Finance had to come up with the bases of regulations. That should be, as far as I know, I'm telling you right now by memory, I'm sorry if I'm wrong again this year. Then we get these basics. It will certainly take more time to develop documents, but the first step is to determine whether these projects can be implemented in the form we want to implement them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U52	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Next, I will open negotiations. The first is the representative of the speakers, and then all other members of the Riigikogu who wish to express their views, as well as representatives of political groups and committees. May I have Aivar Sõerdi first?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Today's questioning and listening to the answers is a very vivid example of how difficult and even impossible it is to get information about specific activities from the current government. Yes, great words have been made about how four-line highways will be built in the near future. Excellent declarations have been made, agreements of the power union. However, if we ask about specific activities and how these activities are covered by money, in particular, it concerns the budget for next year, for which there is a document, we will not hear the answers. As regards the fact that road construction is no priority for the current power union, it came already in spring when the country's budget strategy was drawn up. I would like to quote the comment given to the Head of the Road Administration, ERR, in which he says that in the spring, when the government's action programme received an accelerated four-track construction of the three main roads, they asked for EUR 5 million each year in their budget strategy. The Director-General of the Road Administration considered that 35 million could be the amount needed to plan, design, etc. The reporter then says that you currently have EUR 3 million in your budget strategy. The Director General of the Road Administration answers that he heard this statement from the Minister. The additional application of the Road Administration was not granted in the spring and they received zero euros. Of course, in the meantime, it's been a while, and the state budget is here. But we still do not see any activities in this area that would concern the planning of new highways, especially on the section beyond Mäo in the case of the Tartu highway, and also in the direction of Pärnu and Narva. The minister read here the vision described in the road plan about viaducts, crossings and detours planned for the period up to 2030 in the direction of Narva. But they're cashless. We specifically asked about the budget figures for next year, about the financing of these activities, and now in the context of a new road plan. When specifically asked how many kilometres this new road to Tallinn will be completed in the section beyond Mäo, no reply was received. Zero kilometers. On other orientations, the Minister read about the Väo knot, the Aasperere, the Kosejala, the Võõbu-Mäo projects or the sections prepared by the previous governments, which are the follow-up projects of the so-called existing projects. But we asked about the new sections. The 4 million that the Minister was talking about, and what is planned in the next year's budget as project money to where it will go? It's completely unknown. There are three main directions. By the way, for $4 million, you can't even build a 1 km four-line highway. Of course, we're not talking about construction right now, we're talking about design, land planning, land purchase. It takes tens of millions, not the 4 million that the Minister was talking about. While existing sections, including from Tallinn Road Võõbu to Mäoni, will be completed by 2020, 2021, 2022, the preparatory work will have to be carried out, but the money is obviously insufficient. There's no such thing as money! By the way, finally, I'm saying that... A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U54	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U55	Finally, I say that road money will be reduced by EUR 14 million in next year's budget. So tea is no priority for this power union. There are only empty words, talk of averus, but when we look at specific action plans, see how much funding there is, there appear to be non-existent activities and non-existent sums.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U56	Thank you. Next, Urmas Kruuse! All speakers have 5 + 3 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I have to admit that you were better in some elements today than in answering my written question, because I learned half more about the inclusion of the Riga circle in the road plan, but not in the budget strategy. What worries me is that this is the most dangerous intersection of the Republic. It is located in South Estonia, far from Tallinn, but it is no less important than the intersections around Tallinn. What amazes me is that although a memorandum of cooperation has been signed with the local government, the city of Tartu, so that the city can acquire lands and be ready for construction by 2020, it is actually disappearing at one point. My question to you was, and is, also on this very board: who took this project out of the budget strategy and when did it happen? With this question, I would like to know why this was changed when cooperation with the Road Administration and the local city of Tartu was very clearly planned in the time dimension. And in fact, since it was budget cuts, i.e. the cost of a billion, has been spent and placed on other objects, it would also be reasonable and fair to tell the people of South Estonia that the conversion of these dangerous intersections will be pushed to 2024, as you said from the remote. It's five years, it's a long time. Let's look at the damage they cause more than a hundred accidents a year, which is certainly not a small number. And if we multiply it by four or five years, these numbers are actually even bigger. I am therefore very sorry to hear that today's government considers the safe movement of South Estonians to be nothing and cannot construct this object and has replaced it with what I do not know. I would very much like you to take a quick look at these decisions and find this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U58	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U59	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the summer, we heard from the members of the government that a great discovery was born, or dream of building a four - track road with the help of the PPP. We discussed at length whether the PPP's interest rate is too high or low enough, whether or not it should be built in the direction of Tartu or in the direction of Pärnu, whether or not the PPP will go into balance calculation. And, as Minister Aas has confirmed today, it is also important to discuss whether international players will come along or whether these PPP projects will be carried out against the background of the bright blue dreams that came to visit government members during the summer, using our local workforce. Now, if we look at the actual facts, oh surprise, there's no money in the budget for this whole PPP. I would even say more boldly: during this government's term of office, there is no hope that even one meter of roads that had not already been planned by previous governments will be built into a four-rower. When we look at the facts again, we learned today that in the case of the section of the Tallinn-Tartu road Kose-Mäo, to which the government already allocated the necessary funds in the spring of 2016, the funds have been reduced by 30 million euros. Instead, we now have a dream, a hope or a presumption that this money will come from the European Union's performance fund. What happens when you don't get the money out of there, you missed an answer today. But the fact is, the money previously allocated has been reduced by about 30 million. Secondly, we learned that most of the other important projects, which were asked about here by Mrs Raik, were asked about projects in the east, and Mr Šmigun-Vähi asked about Tallinn's roundabout, have been postponed to 2024 and beyond. What does that mean? Translate: the year 2024 is a convenient coincidence, a matter of its own, whether we believe in coincidences, that is precisely the year following the current RES, that is, the time for which there is no real financial cover. For some reason, my instincts say it goes the same way as the City Hall, which is always in the budget for the year after next. That's not gonna make it next year, but we're gonna push it to the next one. And when it comes to the next one, the next one comes, where it can be conveniently pushed. So there's nothing but drawing graffiti there and cleaning that graffiti. There is no stone raised in City Hall, and there is no new road in the same way, because there is no money. The third fact, which is also very important to stress, is that what Mr Sõerd said about all these numerous decibels, all this talk about the PPP, all these four-line roads, in a situation where the budget is growing very rapidly, is one budget line, and that is the investment of roads, which is actually decreasing, in the order of 14 million. This shows very vividly what the government's real priorities are. Ladies and gentlemen and the good Estonian public! All this talk we were told this summer about PPPs and dreams, new roads, was bullshit because there's no cover for it in the state budget. On the contrary, budget lines have been reduced by important road construction sites.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U60	Thank you. Would Minister Aas like to speak again? No, I don't. Thank you. I shall conclude the first item on the agenda. There are no more requests to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U61	Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U62	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! Good people of Estonia! The day after tomorrow, there will be a vote in this Chamber on the continuation of the participation of Estonian soldiers in the mission of Mali. In this context, I would like to recall a little about the nature of the conflict that is going on in the Malian country and perhaps also to shed light on those who have not gone further in this matter. The country of Mali was established in 1960. Since then, Mali's politics has been dominated by southern mande tribes. At the same time, Mali has occupied vast desert areas in the northern part of the country, where other indigenous peoples live, the most famous of whom are the tuaregs of the Berbers. Tuareegs are a true indigenous people who have lived in their historical habitat for nearly 10,000 years. So we could also call them the Saharan Finno-Ugric. Tuaregs have always considered freedom to be the ultimate happiness, and already two years after the creation of the Malian state, their struggle for independence began. The largest uprising of the Tuareg in recent years began in 2012 when an independent state of Azawad was declared. At the time, the Malian regime and the non-natural borders drawn by the colonial states were offered military support by France and the United States on the grounds of the spread of Islamist groups in the Sahel region. In fact, it is precisely the Western countries that have not recognised the independence of the Tuaregs that have clearly contributed to the spread of Islamism. France also clearly has in play in this conflict the self-interests of uranium deposits in the region and the preservation of the West African franc guaranteed by France and linked to the euro. Military assistance to the Malian State shall be used, inter alia, to commit war crimes and to carry out ethnic cleansing. Here are some examples of war crimes committed by the Malian government forces, which have been confirmed by international organisations such as Amnesty International and the International Criminal Court. 22 February 2012: Malian army launched an indiscriminate revenge attack against the civilian population in the Kidal region. 2 April 2012: Four members of the National Security Service of Tuareg origin in Sévaré were arrested and executed by Malian soldiers. 18 April 2012: Malian soldiers murdered three civilians in the city of Sévaré who were accused of supporting the independence movement. In April 2012, in the city of Sévaré, soldiers murdered three more people, including the Malian army soldier Rouma Ag Ahmed and two unidentified civilians. Spring 2012: people of Tuareg nationality who were suspected of being disloyal were imprisoned throughout the country. 8 September 2012: Malian soldiers executed 16 unarmed pilgrims on their way to Bamako in Dogofri village. 2012 and 2013: In the city of Mopt, a number of civil people of Fula nationality were executed at the Malian military base, and the motivation for a war crime was ethnic and racial. 2012 and 2013: In Sévaré the soldiers executed several people and their bodies were thrown into a drinking water well in the centre of the city. 28 January 2013: Following the conquest of Timbuktu by Mali and French troops, the persecution of local Tuaregs and Arabs by the government forces began. That concludes the list. Good Riigikogu! I would like to put it to everyone's heart that we should carefully consider our choice in the day after tomorrow's vote. The brutal repression of the freedom struggles of one indigenous nation and participation in the neo-colonial affair cannot be in line with our values. Like the Tuaregs, we are small people who have had to fight for their independence for centuries. If Estonia continues to support the Malian regime militaryly, then we too will be involved in the tragedy of destroying the hopes of independence for the Tuareek people. The benefits of this are minimal and will never outweigh the cost of betraying our principles. I would like to hope that the principle of self-determination of nations will remain the winner of the day after tomorrow's vote. I also believe that the mission in Mali cannot in any way be approved by those ladies and gentlemen who believe in human rights. I therefore call on the honourable Riigikogu not to grant permission to extend the term of use of the Estonian Defence Forces in Mali. Only in this way can we stand with dignity as an ancient indigenous nation among others.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-04_U63	Thank you. There's no more calls. The Monday plenary session of the Riigikogu is closed. Closure of the sitting at 4.04 p.m.
