ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U1	Happy Wednesday Question Time, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our traditional briefing. First, please do a presence check. Urve Tiidus, is there a procedural question? Let's answer the procedural questions first. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U2	Dear Chairman of the Board of the Riigikogu, I would like to ask one question concerning the order of today's questions in Question Time. With all due respect to the decision of the Riigikogu's board, which concerns this order here, however, we in the Estonian Parliament have good practice, as they say, Question Time is a so-called tool of the opposition. Since 2011, this good practice has been followed and the members of the coalition have not asked any questions to ministers, as they are well known to be able to do so in a group and in other meetings with ministers. That is why I have a very simple question: has this good practice been changed now, or can opposition members still ask all their questions next time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U3	Thank you. According to our Home and Working Procedures Act, the Question Time Board decides the order of the questions. So is this time. At yesterday's Bureau meeting, we discussed the order of today's questions for quite a long time and seriously. Based on established good practice that the Prime Minister would answer the questions first, we decided that the Prime Minister would answer the questions first this time too. Indeed, Question Time is primarily an opportunity for the opposition to ask questions to ministers, but it does not rule out that coalition members should not ask questions either. There have been, I believe, countless times since 2011, when the members of the coalition have also asked questions. During this period, the members of the coalition have also asked the ministers questions. So, following good practice that the Prime Minister would be the first to reply, the Bureau approved such an agenda. Jevgeni Ossinovski, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U4	Thank you very much. I will continue on the same subject. Oh, you see, something's happened to the board. Information technology is also reluctant to follow this order. But there is no question, of course, that the Riigikogu has very wide discretion in ordering questions under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Indeed, there is a parliamentary practice, which has been agreed in some way in the body of elders, and which indeed says that if questions are asked to different ministers, the Prime Minister could be asked first. But I think it is more important than that in this very yellow book, in our commentary publication, that it must be borne in mind, however, that this is a parliamentary format which, according to custom, gives the opposition an advantage. That's what my question is about. It's not that you're wrong about the law. In my opinion, this is a practice of parliamentarianism, my own parliamentary experience has been a relatively unprecedented violation for eight years. Which, in your opinion, promotes Estonia's political discussion more and thus fulfils the function of parliament that the Constitution has given us: is it that Kersti Sarapuu asks Jüri Ratas to speak about how good he has thoughts and how good he does as coalition members always do, or rather that, for example, opposition members who are unlikely to be able to ask their questions, ask more appropriate and important questions in terms of parliamentary control?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U5	Thank you for your question. According to Estonian parliamentary tradition, the country is represented by members of both the opposition and the coalition. You can't draw a line here. Indeed, we discussed whether the question to be put to the Prime Minister, second, and the question of Kaja Kallas, first, to the Minister of the Interior, but we did follow the established good practice that the Prime Minister always has the opportunity to answer first. That's the decision the board made. Javier in clothing, please! Is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U6	Thank you, good manager. As a member of the Riigikogu, my memory extends over 12 years ago when I was in the coalition at the time, but as an inexperienced politician, I tried to ask a question to the Minister of Finance at the time, but the President of the Riigikogu Ene Ergma explained to me immediately that it is customary that the questions of members of the coalition go to the end of the order and they ask when the opposition questions are exhausted. From this moment on, I have understood this practice and I do not recall any other precedent throughout the 12 and a half years that I have been in Parliament or in the government. The issues of the coalition have always been apart from those of the opposition members. Leaving aside the comic fact that the chairman of the Centre Party Group is asking all of us, in the presence of all of us, about the planned tax increases from the chairman of his party, hardly that they can deal with this issue in the group, is it not? The fundamental question is whether the coalition can ask before the opposition. In my opinion, the Bureau made a serious mistake when it approved such a agenda. And my question is: for what reasons did you put a member of the coalition before a member of the opposition? Is this not, in your opinion, an inappropriate precedent?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U7	Thank you. First of all, I have no information that Kersti Sarapuu would like to receive information from the Prime Minister about tax increases. If you have such information, that's great. I don't have it, and the board does the same. As I explained, it was precisely good practice in the Bureau's discussion to give the Prime Minister the first opportunity to answer the questions. Peter Ernits, is there a procedural question? Sorry, I jumped another person. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U8	Thank you. I hope it was an accident. I'm not going to compare the races here, but I'm sure you'll understand that parliamentary practice should not be spoken by a politician as young as your mouth too big, but I can do it. First of all, Estonia is a parliamentary state, and there are no respondents in the queue, but those who ask. In the case of the ranking of the questioners, this is, above all, a very rare opportunity for the opposition to ask questions from the executive. That's why the questions here are always ranked like this. Secondly, according to good practice, it has never been the case that the President of Parliament represents his party and government and barks at the opposition with every argument that comes to his mind, speaks of some parliamentary practice with which he is not familiar, and of good practice which he himself does not follow. So I would like to ask you to think that the chair is a representative of Parliament, not a representative of the coalition. In a parliamentary state, Question Time is primarily the format of the opposition and, if there is room, party meetings can also be brought here at the end. But this isn't the Central Party meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U9	I think you're making a call, not asking procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U10	And now my question. What is the basis for your knowledge of parliamentary practice, and how do you disprove my claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U11	Firstly, Question Time is not the only way the opposition can ask questions. Both the opposition and the coalition, i.e. all members of the Riigikogu, have the opportunity to make enquiries and written questions to ministers. You, Mr. Ligi, have also taken this opportunity. So our chances of getting information here are much wider. It was precisely this good practice that the Bureau discussed, as I have already said, and on this basis we made the order of today's questions and approved it. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U12	Good manager! Looking at the composition of the questions, 14 out of 19 are actually for one minister, Mart Helme, and three are for Mr Reinsalu. But I am surprised that the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, apart from the attacks on the Prime Minister's mistrust, have not yet put any questions to the Prime Minister. Didn't they want to ask you something? Otherwise, there would have been a rather silly picture that the Prime Minister was here, but after the mistrust has failed, no one wants to ask him a question. Was there a Reform Party and a Socialist... [[T. Clothes comments on something.]] Yeah, but fight it if there's nothing to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U13	Thank you. Indeed, the opposition to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, who is here today to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu, did not ask any questions. But I really hope that the Prime Minister will give you the opportunity to get information about the government's tax policy by answering the questions on the board. This should satisfy both the opposition and the coalition. Does Evgeny Ossinovski have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U14	Thank you! My colleague Ligi hit the nail on the head. It is not a question of ranking how the respondent feels, but of ensuring that the rights of members of the Riigikogu are protected as well as possible. The Question Time is indeed the main format of the opposition. But my procedural question is this: did the board ask the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and did it receive an answer and what was the last time in the history of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia that the coalition member asks first?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U15	Thank you. We did not ask exactly the date, but it was a subject, as I have already said here many times, that, according to good practice, the Prime Minister has always been the first to speak. Both the Bureau, which, by the way, includes representatives of both the opposition and the coalition, resolved the order of the questions of this Question Time. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U16	President-in-Office of the Council. I have a procedural question. In fact, Dmitri Dmitriev also has a question for the Prime Minister. Why is he the last one?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U17	I believe that this should be very positive to the opposition, because you have repeatedly said here today that coalition issues should be at the end. So we also put the question to Jüri Ratas at the end of today's agenda, in response to the opposition's request. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U18	Thank you! My question is based on the same subject. I understand, however, that we understand the same thing: Question Time is primarily meant as a tool for parliamentary control, which gives the possi zone the opportunity to ask the government questions. At the same time, in answering Jürgen Ligi's question, you came to the conclusion in your reflection that members of the opposition also receive information from the Prime Minister and this time on taxogmas. Do you think that the Board of the Riigikogu, where the coalition always has a majority, will in future start writing to the opposition, which are politically relevant issues and in which cases they can exercise parliamentary control and which are not? Was that your idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U19	Of course not. I don't know where you came up with this, but it is clear that the Board of the Riigikogu will never write such things to members of the Riigikogu. No further procedural questions, let's go to the presence check. 49 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time, 52 are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U20	Let me introduce you to Question Time. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Mart Helme and Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu participate in Question Time. Each member of the Riigikogu may register only for one question, for which he or she has two minutes. The ministers have three minutes to reply. After that, the author of the question may receive another question to be specified and the floor can then be asked according to the order of registration by another member of the Riigikogu. First of all, Kersti Sarapuu has a question for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very honourable Prime Minister! Next week, the government will transfer the state budget to the Riigikogu. The truth is that there has been a great deal of talk in recent months about the various areas that all would need extra money. In view of the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance, the tax burden for 2019 will be 33.1% of GDP, which is 0.5% below the expected level based on the spring forecast. The tax burden will also drop in the coming years and reach 32.4% of GDP by 2023. It is very sympathetic that at last we have a Prime Minister who dares to put the question on the table whether the Estonian tax system and fiscal policy serve our people and the country in the best possible way. Should the revenue side of the budget be clearly and specifically reviewed in a situation where money is always lacking in important sectors, while the tax burden is falling, instead of just addressing the cost side?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U22	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U23	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, first of all, thank you for a very serious and substantive question. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I think this is the right place to discuss these issues. If we leave jokes and humor aside for a moment, I think it is becoming increasingly difficult every year to fund important areas of Estonia. It has never been my wish in this tax debate that we should change our taxes today or tomorrow. It has been my wish to say that, in view of the year 2023, I think it is extremely important to start seriously debating tax issues in society. After all, no one's goal is to raise one tax or another. The aim is, in fact, to decide what to do with these financial instruments and what to finance. We have always wanted Estonia to be, say, a socially fair wealthy country where we can guarantee free healthcare and free higher education. At the same time, we want to catch up with our neighbours in the Nordic countries, whether in terms of infrastructure or wage levels. If we assess the level of taxation and the tax burden, we will see that the OECD average is currently well below, for example, the European Union average. The tax burden in Europe is highest in Scandinavia, 44¢48%, 40¢48% in the continental countries of Western Europe, and on average it is between 34% and 43% in the countries of Great Britain, Central and Southern Europe, and it is the lowest in the countries of Eastern Europe. What I really want is for us to have a serious tax base in the next few years, but also to answer the sentences of the other half. Perhaps we need to see if we can guarantee the medical and health system that we want, whether we can make regional policy investments, what the salaries of our teachers, police officers, rescuers and emergency personnel are, and how we can contribute 1% to research development and defence costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U24	Thank you. The question to be specified. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U25	Thank you. For years, many parties have tried to make Estonia into a so-called thin state. Private health insurance, low taxes, centralisation of services in Tallinn and Tartu have been discussed. However, as a country, we have wanted to catch up with the Nordic countries. You have just said here that the tax burden in the Nordic countries is 43%, which is considerably higher than in Estonia, and you also said that there is an average of 39% of GDP in Europe. If you have met your colleagues in Europe, has the tax burden come into play and what are the views of different countries on tax and debt issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U26	Thank you. Yeah, of course it's the subject. I guess these views differ from country to country. However, we can see that this debate is still being held within the European Union. The question has been raised as to whether the current budgetary rules should continue to apply in the coming years. As we know, the European Union promises a different, let us say, looser budget rule than Estonia is currently using. But I do not want a message to be taken out of here now, as we would like to relax the budget rules. At the same time, I think that we must be able to hold this debate openly and courageously. Let's just take this subject, which I think is very sharp and important, that approximately 47.5% of older people over the age of 65 live below the relative poverty line, based on 2017 data. If we take the old-age pensioners a little wider, the poor are already over 50%. When we look at the last debates in the Riigikogu, very many political parties have talked about both the opposition and the coalition. There has been talk about how our dignity can do better. I think this is the right debate, only the other side is where the financial cover comes from. Secondly, I believe that the debate should also include European rules. We should be brave to have discussions on these issues. I think that the discussions on these important issues, which I have already mentioned, will also be useful, such as social policy, education policy, regional policy, internal security, our defence capabilities. So my wish is for this debate to begin, and where there could be a better place than the Riigikogu. I am also very grateful that these substantive and serious issues are being discussed here today in Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U27	Thank you. The next question is for Keja Kallas, Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. I'm sorry! At the last moment, Kalev Kallo pressed the button, which probably wished to ask the Prime Minister a further question. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U28	Thank you. Prime Minister! The Ministry of Finance's economic forecast states, among other things, that property taxes in Estonia, which are considered to be the least growth-inhibiting taxes, account for 0.7% of all taxes in 2019. At the same time, the EU average is 6.6%. If we are talking about keeping the tax burden on one level, wouldn't property taxes be the place that should be reviewed in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U29	Thank you. I immediately remembered that a respected reform party said some time ago that real estate tax should be introduced. I very much support this idea, let us say, the debate. I do not think that we should go to the level that has always been in the Centre Party saying that we need to make progressive income tax, the Reform Party says that there must be a uniform tax system. My wish really is to look at it much wider. Of course, what you, Mr Kallo, are dealing with, the subject of property taxes, and the whole range of possibilities, should be before us. The principle of the Reform Party just before the elections was that a property tax should be introduced. But why not? I agree with this debate too, because, as you say, it is much lower in Estonia than in Europe. A lot of people are talking about the need to review our driving and machinery fleet. So there's a lot of ex-topics. I think we need to look at this tax debate from another angle. We all want to make our natural environment cleaner, we are moving towards climate neutrality. It is well known that this requires very high costs, which are very high investments. Are we prepared to make them on the basis of the current tax base and still reduce our social network, our internal security network and our educational network, or are we saying no, we want to make these investments, but that really means reviewing the tax base and opportunities? So once again, the point is not to do anything today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. I think it would be worth carrying this discussion and debate in society for another three and a half years. And in the light of this question, I would also like to say that, of course, we must devote a great deal of attention to our economic environment in order to increase its competitiveness and export capacity. There may be certain differences to be made in certain sectors, taking the maritime sector as an example, where we want to bring cargo ships back under the Estonian flag. It is also part of the tax bat that we dare to make certain distinctions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U31	Please, Kaja Kallas, question to the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U32	Dear Mart Helme, In the 2016 presidential elections, you claimed that there was an anti-state colon in Estonia of 5,000 young Russian men who are ready to mobilize against the Estonian state in a very short time. Now you have been the Minister of the Interior for six months, and the Estonian security authorities are giving you security briefings every day or every week. Have you identified this column of young Russian men and, if you have identified it, what have you done about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U33	Thank you for a very interesting question. I would like to thank all those in the Chamber, in particular members of the opposition, for the very meaningful parliamentary debate that introduced our Question Time today. I also see that somehow déjà-vu-sense comes after that the opposition still, more specifically the Reform Party, rarely engages in visiting the hall as they were when they were in the coalition. But in answering your question, yes, the identification of who, to what extent and at what level of organization is hostile to the Estonian state, is undoubtedly one of the main tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and the institutions under its authority. When I said this quote, I wasn't in the position I'm in right now, so I used a visual assessment. Now, as Minister of the Interior, I have had the opportunity to communicate with the representatives of the respective institutions, and I can say that the concern about this, whether there is no anti-Estonian mindset or whether people who are anti-Estonian would be able to organise at a level where they are a threat to constitutional order, is part of their daily work. And I have to admit with satisfaction that they can do this job well. But I cannot and do not want to say any numerical estimates that I have heard or which have reached me as to how much or who exactly form forces hostile to our country in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U34	Thank you. Specific question, Kaja Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U35	Let me get this straight. You admit, as Minister of the Interior, that you actually lied and scared the public in 2016 with a column of 5,000 Russian men and that there really is no column, as you have now become Minister of the Interior? Was everything you said back then a lie and a scare?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U36	Well, you always use words like "truth" and incriminating expressions like that. That is, of course, your right as a Member of Parliament, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that security issues are a state secret and I have no right to lay them on the table. But I can tell you I wasn't lying.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U37	Thank you. It's Jürgen Ligil. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U38	Thank you. Mr. Helme, then try to formulate what kind of trait you are currently sorting out enemies. The fact that, as a member of the Riigikogu in the previous office, you did not pay anything, and you gave just as visually estimates and tossed numbers, you responded. However, how could Parliament, within the framework of the protection of state secrets, know on what basis you are identifying these enemies now? I am not saying that your characteristics are completely wrong, you can see all kinds of odds in statistics, but still: how would you explain this to Parliament in such a way that state secrets remain protected? The possibilities are actually there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U39	I'll explain it to you very simply. We've all lived so much in this world that we remember bronze nights. Was the company that came to the streets at the time loyal to the Estonian state or was it not? Did the company raise its hand against the state or did it not raise its hand? How numerous was that company? How many were captured, isolated, arrested, convicted, etc.? I mean, those numbers were pretty big back then. If anyone wants to tell me right now that it was ten years ago, and now it's not, I don't agree with that. Such processes are quite inert. You can also conclude, using the deductive method, that we still need to keep an eye on these processes and groups from the point of view of maintaining our country's constitutional order.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U40	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U41	Next is Kalvi Tough question to the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! We know that in the area of salvation, the most important person, i.e. saving, preserving people's lives at the scene, preventing accidents, is also the rescuers themselves, the people who are doing their job and rushing to help us. We know what the pay of the rescuers has been like in recent years. During the budgeting last year, enough money was found to raise the wages of the rescuers under the leadership of the Socialists, which was 23%. My question is how much the savior's pay will rise next year. When you answered your colleague's question on 15 May, you said that the pay of the rescuers is one of the most money-intensive parts, and you are not going to say numbers just in case, because you might be wrong, and then they say that Helme lied, but the wage increase is considerable, 20 to 30%. My question now is this: how much will the wages of the rescuers rise next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U43	Thank you for your question. Since the budget negotiations have not been concluded, the figures have not yet been compiled and the government has not finally approved them, I cannot tell you now how big a raise awaits the rescuers. But the government is dealing with the issue of wage increases and I dare to predict that the opposition will be struck by an unpleasant surprise.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U44	Thank you. Rock Hard, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U45	Thank you. On the 100th anniversary of the fire department, you said in your speech that you have told the Prime Minister that number, and now it is the prime minister's job to push that number through the government. So what was the number you went to the Prime Minister with? You said that in front of all the rescuers at the big year's party at the Rescue Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U46	Yes, you are persistent and, of course, you have the right to be persistent. But I will say it again: as long as everything is not agreed, nothing has been agreed. This is such a common truth. I'm not gonna tell you the number I put on the PM's desk. I can tell you that it was discussed late last night, it was discussed this morning and it will be continued after Question Time. It'll probably be locked on Thursday. So this number is still topical and under discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U47	Thank you. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I was also at Noblessner's foundry at the 'Organized Firearms 100' event, and I saw the professional rescuers sitting next to me, who were obviously excited about your positive message. Let me get this straight. The pay rise of the rescuers is going to be solid. The only question right now is how much?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U49	I'm sorry, I made sure that the list I've been given here is Urmas Reinsalu. Once again, the budget negotiations have not been completed. By the way, we all know that the budget will finally be adopted by Parliament. We know that the Riigikogu can make its own proposals and improvements. The government can only submit a draft budget, which is approved by the Riigikogu. In this draft budget, the sums raised by the rescuers, the police, as well as many other interests have been recorded. How big these numbers are, I can't tell you right now, because once again, we haven't finally agreed on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U50	Next is the question of Mr Reinsalu, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Vilja Toomas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U51	Yes, thank you! Dear Urmas Reinsalu! The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Citizenship Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu, according to which children under the age of 18 are to be granted Estonian citizenship by simplified procedure. The only condition is that the minor lives in Estonia or settles in Estonia as soon as he or she is born and that his or her parent or grandparent lived in Estonia before 20 August 1991 and is of undetermined citizenship and that the other parent is a citizen of another state. It does not matter whether a minor can speak Estonian or whether he or she ever wishes to acquire it and whether he or she is loyal to the Republic of Estonia. I am referring here to the fact that one of the parents may be a citizen of any country, also a citizen of a country hostile to Estonia. However, the paternal election programme says that the foundations of citizenship policy must not be changed. And my question to you is this: has the Fatherland begun to change its principles in the field of citizenship policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U52	Thank you, good questioner! No, the Fatherland has not changed its principles. The coalition agreement of the government formed by the three parties clearly states that the fundamental principles of Estonian citizenship policy will not be changed. However, it is true that, if the Socialists and Reform Party government was in power, the granting of citizenship to minors of this type was, in fact, resolved in a way that I believe could be seen as a change in the principle of citizenship policy in the sense that, as an active declaration of will by either a legal representative or a minor himself was not necessary, but that, in the case of the children of two stateless persons, citizenship was automatically created when the conditions were met. And that was also why I did not consider it possible to support it at the time. On the other hand, this amendment is a very clearly defined circle of persons. Naturalisation principles and loyalty issues must, of course, comply with citizenship law. A very important aspect is that, in the case of this mechanism, we have discussed this very thoroughly, we have avoided double citizenship for the young people in question, for this theoretical group. And once again, I would like to stress that this is not the same as in the coalition of the Socialists and Reform Party, when Estonian citizenship was given to individuals in any way by force, and I am not going to attribute those claims to which you pointed in connection with the circle of persons whom it could potentially touch. We have clearly determined that there must be an active declaration of intent. And since there is a condition that a person has the nationality of a third country, in order for it to enter into force, it is a very important matter, that is a conditional decision by the government, there must actually be a clear statement on the table that the third country has released that person from the citizenship of a third country. Now it is the concern that these are citizens of a hostile or hostile country. It is certainly important that we discuss, define and define hostile countries. But this government is also planning to make an amendment to the Second Citizenship Act, we have so agreed in the Coalition Agreement, which provides that if persons who have sworn loyalty to the Republic of Estonia, or naturalised citizens, commit an anti-state or terrorist crime, they will be deprived of Estonian citizenship by a court decision. So your concern will be resolved by this method.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U53	Thank you. A more specific question from Vilja Toomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U54	Thank you. I am pleased that you will resolve this concern, because the law amending the Citizenship Act proposed by the Reform Party also includes the same principle that citizenship can be taken away under these conditions. But my question of continuation is that you admitted, however, that you are willing to change the foundations of citizenship policy to some extent. If this end is already open, why are you not willing to accept double citizenship? Why can't Estonian citizens after birth acquire the citizenship of the state of residence without giving up Estonian citizenship or without being considered a security threat to the Estonian state, as you once again, yes, indeed said, the Fatherland programme claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U55	But on this principle, which, good questioner, you tried to blame me for, but I didn't go into that trap. We don't change the principles, that's how simple it is! In this situation, in this country, in this demographic situation and in the population structure we have, double citizenship cannot be allowed. In a situation in which no one, even you, who are proposing a bill, is not authorised to issue a full draft, that in later case law we do not actually have a situation where Estonia and Russian double citizens have a mass legal status. In such a situation, if case law starts to formulate your model on the basis of the so-called equal treatment principles, allowing double citizenship for all, because you have demanded that you want a catalogue of states, but this is later determined by the court, case law, and has already been warned that these disputes will definitely be initiated, we can reach a situation where we have a completely legal route, figuratively speaking, most of the residents of Tallinn Russian citizens. And I don't think that's really a direction that makes sense, a direction that makes sense. This concern, to which you refer, that in fact no citizen at birth should give up Estonian citizenship, he should not be placed in front of the choice that he should give up Estonian citizenship, in this respect I can assure you that this principle is clearly defined in our coalition agreement. Such choices must certainly not be made before people by the law of nationality. But to create such a double... I would like to draw attention to the question of the political power that exists in the country: who exercises this political power? Citizenship is not a human right and citizenship is not a social or humanitarian right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U56	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U57	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! The situation that most residents of Tallinn would be citizens of the Russian Federation, I honestly cannot imagine today, is that, to realise this, either a few hundred thousand Russian citizens should migrate to Estonia and all of them, of course, to Tallinn, or the number of residents of Tallinn should fall by more than half. Here, in answer to your previous question, something went off like an answer. In the context of the 2014 amendment, you called this type of people the children of two non-citizens, or grey passport holders, who were really given the opportunity to obtain citizenship at the time, not by means of a negative statement, but a little more easily, as an explanation for the verbatim report and perhaps for those people who are listening to us at home. I also remember that at that time the Fatherland was opposed to this change. And now this same Fatherland brings before us a much tougher bill. Your party partner, Raivo Aeg, defended the draft in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where not only the child of two non-citizens without language skills will become an Estonian citizen, but it will be a child of a non-citizen and a citizen of the Russian Federation. But that's not what I wanted to ask you about. We've both been in politics for a long time, we've already been dinosaurs, and we both remember the Fatherland that was facing the foreign-Estonian community. Now Isamaa has taken this attitude that if two Estonians, Estonian citizens, Estonians born in Estonia, have a child in the United States, at the age of 18, she should no longer be an Estonian citizen, or at the same time she cannot remain an American citizen. I believe that as Minister of Foreign Affairs, you must have a lot of contact with the outside Estonians all over the world. What kind of face do you look at when you're forced to talk to them like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U58	Thank you. I have a good surprise for the legislator. Namely, for the first time today, the World Cooperation Commission for Estonians met at the Ministry of the Interior, under the leadership of the Minister for Population. And, in fact, the issues of maintaining a link with global Estonians, offering output to the global representative organisations of our Estonians, they are very important. And this government will certainly take much more seriously than previous governments to keep in touch with the Estonian community in the rest of the world. All Estonians must have the opportunity to raise their children anywhere in the world as Estonians, that is an important point of view, and everyone must be welcome back. As regards the issue of double citizenship, as I emphasised, the Estonian citizen who was born must in no way be subjected to a forced choice. This is the starting point that we are definitely going to provide in this coalition. This question, which indicated that there was nothing to excuse the actions of your first government in the area of citizenship policy: you relaxed language requirements, you gave up written language exams for people over 65 years of age. That's what Evgeny bravely cornered you in, isn't it? The Reform Party was forced to retreat out the door. The second thing you were cornered in was, in fact, that the creation of Estonian citizenship in a passive way, such an escalator principle, is certainly a violation of the principles of citizenship policy. This is certainly not what the current coalition is considering. On the contrary, we have a clear view that if a person wishes to apply for citizenship, the young people who must be permanently linked to the Estonian state must first be based on an active declaration of will, secondly must have fulfilled the requirements of loyalty, and thirdly, which is extremely important, there must be no risk to double citizenship. So the concerned question is whether we are facing the Estonians who live in other parts of the world will receive a yes. Separate principles and themes for the development of practical cooperation, including the promotion of return, are being prepared. We have a separate policy plan from the government on this. And believe me, this is an extremely important opportunity for our people to be stronger and stronger in spirit and strength. When we talk about origin, over 200,000 people are or define themselves as descendants of Estonians. So let's not deny that power. And certainly our current right to birth citizens must not impose these restrictions. Now that you have said that you cannot imagine a situation at all if the Russian citizens theoretically could be in most of Tallinn. I do. If your draft enters into force and a court settlement arises that double citizenship of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Estonia is actually possible on the basis of the principle of equal treatment, then on the basis of the population structure of the residents of Tallinn and internal migration from Ida-Virumaa, this is what will happen, right? Step by step, step by step.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U59	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U60	But Urmas Kruus had a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U61	Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs know he's talking about the microphone and that it's good to hear all of us? Maybe we could talk a little quieter in some place. This is where the microphones work. Sometimes it doesn't work, but it does today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U62	Thank you. I have actually received comments from the back of the line that there is not always an answer to what is being said here. Unfortunately, yes, obviously the acoustics here are such that who needs to know who not. But let's hope this gets better. Let us now go to the next questioner, who is Mr Ossinovski, who is asking the question to the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U63	Thank you, President of the sitting. My question continues on the issue of citizenship, but now it is addressed to the Minister responsible for the field, the Minister for the Interior. Firstly, since my name was mentioned in the Foreign Minister's speech, indeed, these were very correct and good changes that were adopted in their time and which entered into force on 1 January 2016. In addition to those listed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, there is also a clear permission for minors to be double-citizens in order to avoid idiotic situations where children are deprived of Estonian citizenship, as the other country does not exempt them from the citizenship of its country. And this is an important addition because it concerns my next question to Mart Helme. Namely, if Mart Helmet was attacked here for calling Estonian Russians the fifth column, and one of the EKRE top politicians has called Estonian Russians parasite chicks, then now a draft has been initiated with the signature of the Minister of the Interior, which in fact relaxes the rules for obtaining citizenship and gives the opportunity to Russian citizens who were born in Estonia, who are minors and whose ancestors have lived in Estonia at least since regaining independence, to obtain citizenship without examination. This more liberal citizenship policy is, in my opinion, a step in the right direction. But a symbolically positive step can quickly become negative. Well, it seems to me that this bill has gone, too. In fact, according to the draft, almost one and a half thousand Russian citizens can apply for Estonian citizenship without examination, but this decision will only take effect if they have renounced the citizenship of another country, which in 91% of cases is the citizenship of the Russian Federation. And the core of the problem is, like the Ministry of the Interior and the Riigikogu, it is well known that children of Russian Federation nationality cannot give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation. And in practice this means that when the bill comes into force, the child will be given the decision of the Government of the Republic that he or she has been granted Estonian citizenship, but until he or she reaches 18 years of age, he or she is practically unable to do anything to give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation, and that means that he or she is practically unable to become an Estonian citizen. The question is this: doesn't it seem like a mockery to you about children who are given citizenship, but who can't really do anything for 18 years to become a real citizen?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U64	Thank you. In principle, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already answered these questions to a large extent. I don't think there's anything hypocritical about it. I don't think there's anything here that discriminates against these people. I say that these people can show their will in relation to Estonian citizenship, and there are procedures for proving that Russian citizenship is abandoned. Precedents that this has been proven exist. And our draft is actually dealing with a very small number of people actually involved with Estonia; it is estimated that there are some 1,500 young people, these children. We do not see any security risk in it, we do not see any other risks in it, but we do see that we are giving people the opportunity to prove their wish to be related to Estonia and the opportunity to prove that they are really ready to become Estonian citizens through the abandonment of the citizenship of the Russian Federation or any other state. In my opinion, a perfectly legal and moral and normal process.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U65	Thank you. Specific question, Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U66	Thank you very much. You don't have to explain to me that this is a good bill for your purpose, I totally agree with that. I'd go one step further, but I'm sure it's a good bill from the point of view. The question is that, in fact, these children will not be able to take up this right, this right, in real life, for reasons beyond their control. You are only imposing an obligation on this group to renounce the citizenship of the Russian Federation, which is impossible for reasons beyond their control. All other minors in Estonia have the right to be double citizens until they become adults. How do we say, if you try to be empathetic, you think that a person might feel, if the state gives him the right, a person goes through this process, applies, is processed, is submitted to the Government of the Republic, the Government of the Republic, with the signature of Jüri Ratas, sends a nice piece of paper that you will see that you have been recognised as an Estonian citizen, but look, for 18 years you can keep this paper somewhere between the books, because as long as you are not of age, you will have nothing to do with this paper, because you will not be able to give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation. I think you'll agree that it's actually a mockery of people. Now you are saying that there are precedents on how it is possible to prove that the Russian Federation has given up its citizenship. Perhaps you could explain this to the honourable Riigikogu because, to my knowledge, § 19 (3) of the Citizenship Act of the Russian Federation states that minors whose parent is not a citizen of another state, in this case a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, cannot be released from the citizenship of the Russian Federation. The authorities of the Russian Federation do not even accept such a request. And in that case, it is impossible for a person to prove anything anywhere because no evidence is issued to him, and such an application is not even processed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U67	Thank you. I understand this very clearly that, in essence, the Social Democrats want to maintain double citizenship for those Estonian people who live in the Republic of Estonia, but whose family, in the case of children, is one person, one of the parents or grandparents, is a citizen of the Russian Federation. It is true that it is difficult to give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation, but it is not true that Estonia's permanent residents since 20 August 1991 would be permanent residents of the Russian Federation. They are permanent residents of the Republic of Estonia and are subject to the jurisdiction of the Republic of Estonia. As a result, they also have rights here, and if, through complex processes, they are able to renounce Russian citizenship, which is possible under the relevant laws, on the basis of their respective requests, their children will be treated as Estonian citizens together with all the rights deriving from it. Yes, I admit that this is all legally complicated, but understand that it has been legally complicated by the corresponding steps of previous governments, including those led by the Reform Party. So if you look in the mirror, you'll understand that right now you're attacking the government for your own problems. We will solve these problems, but we will not thank you for creating these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U68	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U69	Thank you, good manager. Who would have thought that my eyes would see this miracle, that Mart Helme would be standing before us and defending the substantial relaxation of citizenship requirements in the case of the descendants of citizens of the Russian Federation? It is true that, at the beginning of this week, the day before yesterday, you presented a new doctrine before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, if so, according to you, citizenship should be approached on a land-based basis, not on a blood-based basis, which is an outdated concept. Unlike Mr Ossinovski and many others, I do not think that elementary language skills and knowledge of your country would be too much required to become an Estonian citizen. I think it is perfectly normal that if someone wants to become an Estonian citizen, he could speak Estonian on an elementary level and, in principle, know how things work in Estonia, perhaps to perform a constitutional text. But my question concerns the forceful relaxation of your land-based concept and citizenship policy, just as you defended in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the context that, about a year or a year and a half ago, Martin Helme, Vice-President of your party, said: 'We all know that the sheep will not become a horse because it was born in a stable. ' Leaving aside the politeness or properness of this expression, however, it is a pre-election, completely different view than what you have now put forward. Which way is it? The EKRE, as I understand it, now strongly supports the relaxation of citizenship requirements for the descendants of citizens of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U70	Thank you. Well, such free interpretations of all kinds of viewpoints are, of course, the right of every vigilante. Now, what we're going to do is relax. We're not actually easing anything. We'll specify and eliminate the mess. And the omissions of previous governments have contributed greatly to this confusion and, by the way, to the lack of proficiency in the Estonian language. Well, of course, the fact remains that it is. Unfortunately, Taavi Rõivas was not at the meeting of the National Budget Control Committee, where the topic of teaching the Estonian language was raised. There he would have learned, among other things, that about 300,000 people whose native language is not Estonian are able to communicate in Estonian today. Who do we do? We deal with some 1,500 young people speaking Russian, especially Russian. These young people learn the Estonian language by going to school in Estonia; they receive Estonian language education there. By the way, our government is also working on what has not been done by previous governments, or the preparation of teachers, so that we can take Estonian to kindergartens and by doing so make the whole Estonian school system Estonian over the next few years, but not by making it the first time with some sort of dog seal clap. That's what this is all about. We regulate the acquisition of citizenship in the case of people who are actually connected with Estonia, who actually want to acquire Estonian citizenship, whose parents one of whom has lived in Estonia from at least 20 August 1991, when Estonia is re-independence. All the conditions must be met in order to believe that these people want to be and remain connected to Estonia, to be loyal to Estonia. I see no relaxation here, no damage to the Estonian language. I see here a very clear intention to eliminate the points that have been said about, as far as I have lived here in the Republic of Estonia, for 28 years. What more must be done and what we will also do is to grant special rights or give stronger rights to the Language Inspectorate and to strengthen the position of the Estonian language in the country as a whole. Again, something that has been completely lost in the past decades. So, respectables, we have a very big clean-up job ahead of us to remove what has been spilled out in the course of the activities of previous governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U71	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U72	Next is the question of Signe Riisalol for Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U73	Good manager! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! This is about the occupation damage that has been important to you in the past. On 22 June this year, in an interview with Toomas Sildam, you said: 'Of course you have to deal with the investigation of occupation damage, and now the Ministry of Justice is paying attention to economic damage. The question of whether I, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, consider it important to assess the damage to the occupation, then, yes, of course. " In this matter that is important to you, could you perhaps shed light on how far these damages have been assessed and what is the state of play?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U74	Thank you, good questioner! The Ministry of Justice, in accordance with the task set by the Riigikogu, who considered it important to deal with occupation damage, just because I am not mistaken, was the composition of the Riigikogu X, has come so far that a report on human damage has been drawn up at the Ministry of Justice. This is a circle of topics that have, in fact, been dealt with in the most in depth, inter alia, in the Committee on the Repressive Policy of Occupations set up by the Riigikogu, led by the late father, Vello Salo, in the White Paper document. And it is remembered that the previous Riigikogu revealed such an ideal clarity and allocated money from the Ministry of Justice to investigate economic damage. In this area, work and work in the respective committee of the Ministry of Justice will certainly be under way this year, and I hope that by the end of the year some stage has been completed on this issue again. First of all, it is about the international legal position. Firstly, whether we recognise that we were occupied and, secondly, whether we recognise in international law that we have the right to claim these damages. My answers are yes in both cases. The third question is how countries realise this right of claim. The right to claim can be exercised either by making a referral, by calling on third countries to make proposals for international justice. Here I consider it very reasonable that the Baltic States, countries of similar status, act together. I have also spoken to my colleagues on this issue; we have discussed this issue. And it is certainly reasonable for us to deal with this historical aspect, with a substantive assessment and also to consult with a view to the future as to whether and in what form it is possible to shape positions of legal significance. In Lithuania, even a law has been passed on this matter, which deals with occupation losses and obliges the government to deal with them, and in Latvia it has been done in the same way as Estonia on the basis of a parliamentary decision. So if some politicians here in the past have somehow questioned the damage to occupation, then I say that questioning the damage to occupation is an immanent denial of occupation, and that is certainly something I cannot tolerate as a member of a government of an independent state. Let us imagine that our police must work under the legal principle of bicycle theft, is another theft, and we imagine that the crimes committed against our people are so extensive, and then we say that we ignore them. If it's a pity, if it's suffered, if there's a victim, then it's a perpetrator.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U75	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U76	Thank you. Good minister! Mart Laar, the honorary chairman of your party, commented yesterday on the statement of the Russian ambassador and referred in his reply to the Soviet occupation, describing or writing the following: Estonia undoubtedly remembers the actions of these Soviet soldiers, both broken cities, burnt-down villages and killed women and children. Estonia has been one of the countries that remembers and remembers the recent acts that Russia has committed in Eastern Ukraine, as well as the way Crimea was occupied and annexed. We know that at the end of this year there will be a debate at European Union level on the extension of sanctions due to Russia's behaviour. And we will probably all see how, in recent months, there has been a movement to alleviate Russia's tensions without Russia changing its behaviour. I think it is very important that Estonia, together with the countries of the same kind, can very clearly explain and justify how wrong it would be to take such premature steps and what such a relaxation of the political line could lead to. I think this is a very important foreign policy task this autumn, because Russia has not changed its behaviour. I would ask you to speak up in these minutes about Estonia's policy on sanctions in Russia. Knowing the current state of play, do you consider it possible to ease sanctions and how would you forecast this debate to take place at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U77	Thank you. I would first like to say that I am absolutely in agreement with the questioner, as far as the question included attitude or assessments. It is perfectly adequate for us too, for such problems, for vital security problems and not only for values. The view of Estonia is unambiguous, clear. We have seen this in the case of Russia's activities, not to tame its desire or attachment to the agreed rules of the international community, but actually to the determination, determination and ability of the international community to link, figuratively speaking, a price tag to its aggressive steps. If unilateral action is taken to alleviate this situation, it is actually a sign to the aggressor that he has achieved moral victory. And regrettably, I have to admit that this is more the way Moscow seems to me, looking at Russia's comments on the diagnosis of what happened in the Spring vote on the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Our view, or the view of the Republic of Estonia, has been unambiguous: the revision or amendment of possible sanctions can still be considered if, for the reasons of origin, the root causes of the solution have been found, i.e. Russia has started to comply fully with the Minsk agreements and essentially complies with them. We have seen that following the exchange of certain prisoners, it would certainly be positive if there were also a summit in the Normandy format and more positive steps were taken to comply with the Minsk agreement. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have also seen that these positive expectations, or this background of expectations, have arisen in the past because of various individual events. So the position of the Republic of Estonia is this: to make it clear to all our partner countries that one-sided relaxation of these principles is naive and does not lead to the expected results, but actually frails the security environment and does not make Russia's aggressive behaviour less difficult or predictable. I am certainly planning to visit the larger countries of Western Europe this autumn as well as the United States of America next month. And certainly one of my key messages is the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U78	Thank you. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U79	Good minister! I'll continue with the occupation. The statement made by the Russian ambassador to the TASS, which was mentioned here and in which he said that the people of Estonia treasured the heroic acts of the Soviet liberators, also contained some hints of what Russia intends to do during the 75th anniversary of the occupation of Estonia. Firstly, Salute in Moscow on September 22nd, the day of Tallinn's fall, and secondly, some memorial events in Haapsalu, Paldiski and, I think, Keila, which fell in those towns that were already left by the German troops and were protected by Estonian units. What's the government's position? I suppose it's judgmental, but what's the government's position and what, if anything, are we going to do? Are we going to protest, make a statement, ignore what's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U80	Thank you. Sure. If in front of the public, I think that was, in July, news came about the statement by the Russian Ministry of Defence that in these countries, saludies would be organised, among other things, to celebrate the re-ocuption of the Baltic capitals in our view, the release from Russia's view, then the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs called a representative of the Russian embassy and protested on its side. The steps of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs were followed by similar steps taken by the Lithuanian and Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The fact that the Russian Ambassador expresses Russia's official position regarding the denial of Estonia's occupation is not a surprise by nature. Which does not mean that the Estonian state should not react to all these further steps by the official representative of the Russian state. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Estonian State, I unequivocally condemn it. The fact that Estonia, as one of these countries, was subjected to so-called multiple occupations, occupations under both Nazi and Communist authority during World War II, does not stagnate any elements of the occupation that took place. And the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs will certainly draw its attention to the Russian ambassador on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U81	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U82	The next question is for the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Please, Riina Sikkut!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U83	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of the Interior! You're reluctant to interpret, so I'll try to use a lot of quotes. Last week, "The Spectator" published pictures of how a member of the EKRE Riigikogu Ruuben Kaalep, a member of the EKRE Group, organises weapons training for the EKRE Youth Assembly. Photographs are also taken that specialists consider to be instigating anger. To the journalist's question, should we be prepared for EKRE's young people to patrol the street with guns, Reuben Kaalep replied: 'Now the Minister of the Interior does not see the need, because he is a member of the EKRE. " That answer is actually startling. And it gets even more appalling when we put it in the context of you and your son's earlier statements. On 25 March, Martin Helme said: 'We will tell everyone that if in some way the deep state, the media industry complex and the Reform Party succeed in screwing up the talks of the government coalition, these small demonstrations of the hangvei benches are a walrus party compared to what our supporters are going to do on the street when we are being sidelined by unfair practices. ' And you yourself added: 'If our business is screwed and we throw the match in the powder barrel, there will be an explosion. It will not be prevented by any deep state or the European Commission, this explosion will come. ' Can your threats and the statements made by Reuben Kaalepi be interpreted as meaning that if the government changes, which in a democratic country is actually common, then the Blue Awakening comes out on the street with weapons? And how do you, in your current role as Minister of the Interior, who must ensure internal security, actually mitigate the risk that we have people who can handle a weapon and who can use that skill on people who, for example, disagree with their world view or simply have a different skin color?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U84	Thank you. Well, it can be hard to live under the permanence of fear that your example carries. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are tens of thousands of people in Estonia who own a weapon. We've got about 14,000 hunters, we've got 25,000 allies, we've got 6,000 armed forces, we've got 3,000 policemen, we've got tens of thousands of people in reserve who've been through tactical weapons training exercises. If it's just that somebody's taken a picture of himself somewhere with a gun, be his hunter, a defence ally, whoever is treated as some kind of incitement to anger, some kind of threat to constitutional order, well, then we still have a very bad thing. The state of Estonia is a country where people have a legal right to carry weapons, where people have a legal right to practice shooting with weapons in shooting ranges in their respective shooting places. And so did the Blue Awakening at the Tactical Shooting Center under the guidance of instructors, under safe guard. Just because young people were vain after taking pictures doesn't mean anything, doesn't mean any danger to constitutional order or to you while you're walking on the street. But I draw attention to another fact. And the fact is that last week you discussed the 'No lies, yes to freedom' organization, or whatever association it is, members of Facebook for a long time about how the members of the EKRE should be kicked at ministers. And you figured out that you actually have to recruit a sniper and clean them up at all. Is this an incitement to hatred by the same people of tolerance? Is this a normal discussion and rhetoric? You still love to use the word 'rhetorics' in our case. What is it anyway? I want you to know that we've made a statement to the police on this matter. Let us recall here that a previous Prime Minister was also threatened, he was allowed to put a horse head into bed. It was a trial and a conviction for this person. I hope that our impartial judicial authorities will also take the death threats made this time to members of the government as seriously as they did last time. So I don't see any danger or anything appalling about people doing shooting exercises. And when a provocative question is asked whether you intend to come to the street, and they say that they do not see the need for it now because they trust the Minister of the Interior, trust the police, trust the constitutional order, then everything is fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U85	Thank you. A more specific question, Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U86	Unlike your interpretation, I'm not afraid. And I don't think you can threaten anyone. And very right, all threats must be dealt with in the same way, there must be no distinction here. But drawing a parallel with hunters or other gun owners isn't really appropriate. Hunters don't carry a gun and say they don't see the need to use it because the Minister of the Interior is a member of the EKRE. They still apply for a hunting permit, and then when it's time to shoot the moose, they go for a shot. There is nothing political about this; their use of weapons is not political. But my question is entirely different. Is this a threat of civil unrest or a threat to unrest? Tell me honestly, is that why Prime Minister Jüri Ratas can't make a government with anyone else?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U87	I don't know what to say for Jüri Ratas. Jüri Ratas has apparently made a pragmatic decision on the basis of his calculations by proposing the formation of a government coalition and has carried out this decision with great purpose. I would say, speaking of the government, that the government's ability to work is high and the mood is extremely high, constructive, motivated. The attempts to demonise this government, which has been going on for six months, have failed. These attempts have come to disparage Estonia's reputation in foreign media. It is, by the way, an act against the Constitution, and the defence police also warns against such action. So think about it when again you start slandering Estonia somewhere. You are doing precisely what is one of the cores of Russia's action against Estonia: to discredit Estonia, to accuse Estonian politicians of fascism, Nazism. Think about it if you do something like that! And don't break society! For the past six months, society has been divided by those who blame the members of the government for some sort of non-existent ambition to make some kind of coup, or I do not know what your thoughts might be. There's nothing like that! The Government of the Republic of Estonia shall act in accordance with the procedure laid down by law and by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U88	Thank you. Please, Javier Clothes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U89	Thank you, good manager. First of all, the observation that there is a screen in front of you and the clock is ticking on this screen, and this watch could be stopped in two minutes, even when the chairman of your party speaks. In answer to the previous question, the first number on the screen was already three. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the Prime Minister of the Republic sitting next to the Minister of the Interior. I think that there is now another place where the Minister of the Interior could be called to order and apologized to the Estonian public. The fact that the Minister of the Interior treats the political criticism of the opposition as an anti-state activity and threatens essentially with the defence police, saying that what the opposition is doing in the Chamber is somehow anti-state, it is completely outrageous and it is unacceptable. Such a person should not really continue as a member of the government. Good George, you've got some thinking going on right now. To comment on the previous question: for some reason we do not see Lieutenant Colonel Kunnas or Brigadier General Laneman in pictures of them waving guns. And God's right, because they know how to handle a gun. The way Ruuben Kaalep and his associates waved guns is an elementary violation of etiquette. No militia would allow such a thing to happen to themselves. But it can be seen that the men who promise to protect Estonia, instead of actually doing something in the Defence Forces, are just going to brag. And we do not really need such enthusiasts in Estonia's defence. There are other places and other methods to deal with the defence of the Estonian state. And I believe that your party's officers could teach younger colleagues in this regard. But my question actually concerns the internal defense reserve. Well, under normal circumstances, we wouldn't make a big deal of about 1% of the Ministry of the Interior budget being added. My question concerns the 700 men you say that they must have completed military service. People who have performed military service in Estonia are known to be in reserve and many of them belong to the Defence League. How do you ensure that during the crisis, when these people are needed, they do not actually have so-called several hats and several functions, so that this internal defence reserve actually turns out to be a blank word? This is because these people need to stand up for the defence of the state either in the Defence League or in the war-time structure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U90	I would like to clarify the remark made at the beginning of Taavi Kõivas, concerning the timetable for asking and answering questions, repeat that according to the Rules of Procedure and Home Act, a member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask a question within two minutes. Taavi Clothes also passed a quarter of a minute. But the minister has three minutes to answer, not two.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U91	All right, I'll get it. We're about to get to the internal defense reserve, but before you know it, a few minor adjustments. There is nothing outrageous about me drawing attention to the unprecedented defamation campaign that has been sending this government for months. This is an unprecedented defamation campaign! I think that Parliament is absolutely the right place to draw attention to this slander and the lie that has sent this government. Now that you're talking about waving guns, I have a nice person on Facebook, named Oskar Siff, who poses with weapons, among other things, claims he's a member of the Reform Party, claims that he works in some structure of the Reform Party, I don't know exactly who's happy on 9 May, spreading Soviet symbols, decorating his profile with Georg's tape and wishing Batka Putin luck on his birthday. Thank you. Congratulations on such a member. Let us now expand, as you customarily do, to the party as a whole, which reflects your political party as a whole, just as you are trying to extend some single thing to the party as a whole in our case. You will now understand from this example how absurd your accusations and your expansions are. As far as the internal defence reserve is concerned, I remember very well how Taavi Kõivas stood here as Prime Minister and answered my question about what the current government is doing for the protection of the population. That Estonia is not preparing for war. It has now been quite a few years, and the international situation has clearly become more complex. We are a responsible government that also thinks about how to deal with a non-peaceable situation when all systems function well and in harmony with the resource available. We are also thinking about how to cope when there is a crisis situation, when there is a disaster, when there is a natural disaster, when there is a war situation, when there is a need to evacuate people, when there is an additional resource that is occupied with other tasks and without preparing for it, the state has no capacity. Our government is a responsible government that can also watch out and start allocating resources when there is no crisis. That's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U92	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U93	Let us go to the next question to be asked by Mr Helme, Minister of the Interior in Taavi Rõiva. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U94	Thank you. Well, we can certainly see this responsibility when we assess the internal defence budget as a whole: whether it increases or decreases as a percentage of GDP. We will also see whether the reduction in the percentage of defence costs, which has been taking place for several years, will continue or will change. But now I'm going to go to my question. First of all, it's factual. You said that during the previous administration, people had to take exams to gain citizenship by naturalisation. No, it wasn't lost, it was a conscious choice. And I continue to think that in order to gain naturalisation citizenship, the citizenship exam and the basic language skills are not much required. Now, however, the facts are also to be put into context. Your party opposed the transition to education in Estonian throughout Estonia some time ago in this hall. The result of the vote is public to everyone; everyone can control it. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and today in this Chamber, you defended the draft according to which children of non-citizens and citizens of the Russian Federation will receive Estonian citizenship in the future without taking an Estonian language examination, so also those young people who go to school where they do not teach in Estonian. It's a context. But now the question. In the same Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 37 SE Reform Party factions were also discussed. We also submitted a draft concerning children who were born as two older children in the United States, for example, and who, so far, have to choose when they are 18, whether to keep their home place, or the citizenship of the United States or the Republic of Estonia. You strongly opposed the fact that they could retain Estonian citizenship. My question is, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U95	To answer this last question briefly: I am against double citizenship. But let's solve some lies. During this government, defence costs have not decreased. Defence costs, on the contrary, have increased. This government has set aside 20 million ammunition for extra purchases. This government has allocated 10 million to the Allied countries in addition to this 2% of GDP, which is traditionally earmarked for defence costs. So the claim that defence costs have decreased is not correct. Nor is it true that we are somehow simplifying citizenship policy. I would like to remind you that it was the administration of Taavi Rõivas that lost the children's citizenship and language exams. We foresee that Estonian language and constitutional knowledge exams in comprehensive school can be considered equivalent to those taken when applying for citizenship. So we have not lost anything, we have extended the possibilities and right of school pupils to apply for citizenship to certain groups of residents. It's not quite correct to churn like that. But once again, this government has taken a clear stance not to allow double citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U96	Thank you. A more specific question, Taavi Clothe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U97	Thank you. Good answer! If you had listened carefully, you would have noticed that I said that defence costs as a percentage of GDP have decreased. And they have, unfortunately, decreased since 2017. Yes, EUR 10 million has been granted for the reception costs of the allies, but each year during the 2014/2016 period this amount was considerably higher. According to the Centre for Defence Studies, the percentage allocated to national defence expenditure has fallen from year to year. I very much hope that you will prove otherwise in a few weeks' time when you will present us with the state budget for next year. The share of defence costs could be at least 2.2% of GDP, which would be comparable to 2016 for example. As far as vassing is concerned, I think everyone in this Chamber understands perfectly that the 58th Bill, which you defended so passionately in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, makes it easier to obtain Estonian citizenship. I am not currently judging whether this is right or wrong, but the fact is that you, Mart Helme, are defending a substantial relaxation of citizenship requirements. I would also like to point out that you are defending this bill and that it is a government initiative, but it seems that you have not noticed that there is no word on the exams in this bill. And the story is that the language exam or citizenship exam must be equated with the basic school exams, I don't know, I've heard the Minister of Education and Science of your government talk about losing the comprehensive school finals. But it's not in the current bill anyway. Now to the question. Before the elections, there was a debate in Finland where your party partner, your head of the Finnish department, said that the child of the Estonian father and Finnish mother is, if she is an Estonian and Finnish citizen at once, a security threat to Estonia. Do you agree with that statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U98	I don't know how to comment on that last statement, but these claims came from here like Vändra to the lumberboards. First of all, we do not facilitate the granting of citizenship to anyone other than 1500 children born and raised in Estonia, whose parent or grandparent, as of 20 August 1991, lived in Estonia. This is no simplification. Secondly, he must make a citizenship exam anyway; he must take an Estonian language exam anyway. Well, there's no point in shaking your head, we know better here. This bill is not about taking these exams, but about how do I say it? just a time procedure. As far as defence costs are concerned, there is no point in coming around this table to talk about the obvious facts. The fact is that the defence costs increased as the government of Taavi Clothes fell in 2016. Defence costs are still increasing. Yesterday we sat down and discussed the issue of defence costs. Defence costs are also rising nominally and per cent. When the budget reaches the Riigikogu, you will have the opportunity to make sure of it. So all accusations, as if this government were some sort of government for the eradication of the Estonian state, are yet another foolish and irresponsible propaganda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U99	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U100	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of the Interior! Please explain to the MPs how the 1500 children born in Estonia, whose parent or grandparent has lived here for 28 years and who are entitled to Estonian citizenship by law amendment, can prove to the Ministry of the Interior that they have renounced the citizenship of the Russian Federation. How can they do this procedurally?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U101	Absolutely elementary: to produce a document issued by the Russian authorities. Everything! Easy!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U102	Thank you. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U103	Let's go to the next subject. Minister of the Interior Mart Helmele is the question of Jaak Juskel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U104	Honourable speaker! Dear Minister, I'm gonna keep going on with the Blue Awakening. Your party's youth association organises weapons training for young people, encourages them to show up in public with weapons, justifies their calls for violence, and what, as Mrs Sikkut said, the worst: does not rule out coming to the street with weapons. As a teacher, I am still very concerned about the example of your party's youth association for young Estonians, underage citizens. But my question concerns this subject from a completely different perspective. Paragraph 4 of the party law of the Republic of Estonia states this: 'The armed forces, as well as the associations or associations that carry out military or military exercises, are not allowed to act as a party or as a structural unit of a party. " It is clear that your party's youth association The Blue Awakening is seriously violating this section of the party law. So I ask: Mr Minister, when will you be ready to apologise to the Estonian people for the actions of your youth community and when will you, as Minister of the Interior, initiate the disbanding of the Blue Awakening?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U105	Well, the revolutionary demands of the Social Democrat, of course, are appropriate. First of all, the Blue Awakening is an independent NGO and is not a member of the Estonian Conservative People's Party as a sub-organisation. We have the Christian Union, we have the Women's Association, which are inter-party associations. The Blue Awakening is an independently registered organisation that is ideologically linked to the Estonian Conservative People's Party, but not structurally. Yeah, we call him our youth organization, but structurally he's not involved with us. Formally, he has no connection to us. That's why we can't disband him, even if we wanted to. But we see nothing illegal about people taking an interest in weapons, people doing shooting exercises and people photographing themselves with guns. Is that illegal? According to my information, not according to the Constitution and other laws of the Republic of Estonia. We see no reason to apologize for anything here. However, I can see the reason why Andrus Punt, a member of the Tartu Council of the Reform Party, would apologise to us through the mouth of some of the Reform Party's leading politicians. This man advises all ECT members to set themselves on fire and to dig their own graves before doing so. Maybe somebody gets up and apologize.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U106	Thank you. Specific question, Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U107	Mr. Minister! As Mrs. Sikkut said earlier, one of the leaders of the Blue Awakening, an honorable member of the Riigikogu has publicly announced in our national broadcasting that he does not rule out coming to the street with weapons. As Minister of the Interior, what are you doing to prevent this activity, this possible provocation against the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U108	In Estonia, all the laws and institutions necessary for this purpose are in place. When people break the law, all the power of the law is applied against them. When it comes to walking on the street with a gun, I think every day we meet people on the street carrying a gun. It is not prohibited to carry a weapon in Estonia. A registered, legally owned weapon is permitted and can be carried on 24/7. So I don't see anything illegal in this either. Unfortunately, I have to admit that this is such an artificial excruciating of hysteria: Reuben Kaalep would be like a threat to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and would be able to overthrow the legitimate government of the Estonian state alone, along with a couple of 15 or 16-year-old girls, to disband the parliament and I do not know what else to do with horrific acts. Calm down, gentlemen and ladies! Relax, there's nothing like that! You don't need to feel that kind of fear. By the way, I would remind Mr. Juske of his own tempestuous youth.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U109	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U110	Thank you. Well, then, I'll continue on the subject of a stormy youth. The problem is, these are teenagers. The question is in the examples of what is promised to them, their mental health, their access to weapons, including their parents' weapons. If we look at school shootings in Estonia or elsewhere, we cannot say that they are a couple of teenagers and therefore there is no danger to society. So please do not underestimate young people's access to weapons and its connection to the general security of society. But I'm gonna ask you that in addition to my previous question. If the Russian Federation law does not allow a minor to give up Russian citizenship and does not process such documents, it is the same Kafkalike situation that Ülle Madise spoke about yesterday in this very Chamber, who described the attitude of the state or officials, which leaves a person out of focus. Now it is exactly the same: we are not focusing on the interests of these 1500 children. They have a desire and a right to Estonian citizenship, but we make them go through a procedure where we know that they cannot obtain this paper, submit it to the Ministry of the Interior and actually obtain Estonian citizenship before they reach the age of 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U111	Thank you. Well, it turns out very clearly that the Social Democrats want a null variant of citizenship. We make laws for the residents of the Republic of Estonia. You want us to take over the jurisdiction of the Russian Federation and build on it. There is no way the current government will do that. We will create the prerequisites for young people who show a clear desire, including their parents or one of their parents, to become Estonian citizens, to go through all the relevant procedures, to pave the way for this. When they reach the age of 18, they know that their citizenship will be Estonian citizenship, not the citizenship of the Russian Federation or any other third country. We'll pave the way for them. If this pavement is, in your opinion, illegal or criminal in any way, then we have a different understanding of how to meet young people. Once again, it concerns 1,500 people. This isn't about any million-dollar masses. We have far more acute problems with temporary agency workers, migratory pressures from the east. These are much more acute problems and they are also addressed by the Ministry of the Interior, by the way, through legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U112	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U113	The next question is Urmas Reinsalu. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U114	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. During the last 24 hours, two Ukrainian soldiers have died indirectly, but also in defending a free Europe and Estonia. Since the beginning of this year alone, over 80 Ukrainian troops have died. Moreover, since the beginning of the war, 2014 there have been more than 3,000 deaths. Russia's aggression against Ukraine has forced over one and a half million people to leave their homes, the largest forced migration in Europe since the end of World War II. Estonia's security depends on whether Ukraine can remain an independent and independent democratic state. Now we hear from a member of the Estonian Government who sits on your left hand, that Ukraine is a Trojan horse for Europe, and that people put in a difficult situation because of Russia's aggression are actually gay Sovietus. Please explain to Parliament how such statements by the Estonian Minister of the Interior are consistent with the protection of Estonian security interests and the Estonian foreign policy course!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U115	Thank you. The Republic of Estonia has stood steadfastly alongside Ukraine during the years when Ukraine and Georgia have experienced the aggression of the Russian Federation. The Republic of Estonia continues to do so and sees its role in maintaining, among other things, the unity of the West in preventing Russian aggression. As regards whether the government has discussed the matter and whether the government considers it reasonable or whether I consider it reasonable to request unilaterally to waive visa liberalisation with Ukraine, that is a negative answer. Visa freedom with Ukraine has been agreed in the European Union, and this is, in addition to meeting the objective conditions that Ukraine has had to do, certainly also important as a political step, as a political signal. Now, this is where the Minister of the Interior was referred to. True, many regulations have been violated as regards the work of people coming from the east. I think it makes perfect sense not to interrupt these things. It should not be compared in any way with the political support of Estonia, unconditionally, with unwavering support for the freedom of Ukraine and the desire of the Ukrainian people to choose their course. But it is natural and elementary that the rule of law follows the rules in force in our country. This does not mean that very many people who have broken the rules of work as Ukrainian citizens have come here without a visa, with a view to visa liberalisation. Also in the case of visa liberalisation, the country has, of course, a sovereign right to control compliance with the rules in its own country. And this is what the Republic of Estonia is doing, which the Government of the Republic considers important to do. But our political support, our sympathy and our willingness to contribute to Ukraine's support are unwavering. I can unequivocally assure you that this is the political line of this government. We are in solidarity with the Ukrainians who love freedom, but we also naturally rely on our own security interests in defending our values. We are also a neighbouring country of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U116	Thank you. Specific question, Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U117	Thank you. A few minutes ago, Minister of the Interior Helme unprecedentedly threatened the opposition of the Republic of Estonia with the Defence Police of the Parliament. He spoke of the fact that opposition politicians seem to be spreading information about Estonia against their partners, among their allies. Last weekend I was in Ukraine, the President and several other people were there. All of us had to answer the question of many friends of Ukraine, people of allies: will Estonia turn their backs on Ukraine? The words of the Minister of the Interior had been widely reflected in the Ukrainian press, thanks, of course, to the functioning of the free media, not because someone is reporting someone's words from here in Estonia. Urmas, you didn't answer my question. I'll ask you again. You haven't been able to make a visit to Ukraine in five months, but I know this visit is being prepared. There is also a new government, and certainly it is very important for them to hear your one answer to my question: can the words of a member of the Government of the Republic, the Minister of the Interior, that Ukraine is a Trojan horse for Europe, harm the security interests of Estonia and the credibility of our foreign policy or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U118	Thank you. I'm not going to distort the quote here now. If you ask whether the position of the Government of the Republic of Estonia is that Ukraine is a Trojan horse for Europe, the answer is unambiguously no: it is not. My understanding is that the Minister of the Interior spoke about issues related to the violation of labour rules. If the use of the word of a government or of a representative of Parliament gives our Ukrainian friends or, more broadly, the presumption that we are, as if, changing our unwavering course of support for Ukraine, it must, of course, be rejected. I know that when the President visited Ukraine, he too came up with this issue, asked about the statement by the Minister of the Interior, and the President was able to refer to the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. That's right. And I am sure that the good questioner also gave clear, unambiguous answers on Ukraine's support. I have had many meetings with the previous Ukrainian Foreign Minister, and I have, of course, also been in contact with the new Ukrainian Foreign Minister. And as you rightly pointed out, I certainly intend to visit Ukraine in the near future. In fact, we are looking, together with the countries that think like us, to help Ukraine further, stronger, deeper. Contribute in such a way that we also take into account the pressure that Ukraine may face if, for some reason, a so-called relaxation policy is unilaterally offered in its relations with Russia. It is necessary that the West actually preserves its principles, as it will certainly protect its security interests, including Ukraine's security interests, while maintaining its principles. So there's no two-way-thinking moment here, and I can confirm it unconditionally to a good questioner. Estonia has come up with initiatives. The last time Estonia adopted a decision as the first Member State of the European Union not to recognise passports issued by the Russian Federation in the territory of Lugansk and Donetsk under a simplified procedure. We have also called on the other Member States of the European Union to follow this decision, and I can assure you that the political leadership in Ukraine has understood it unambiguously and has clearly concluded that it is a political contribution to Ukraine's sovereignty. For what does this really mean to share the passports of the Russian Federation? This essentially means 'citizenship or state-law cleansing', the clearing of territories for the future shift of the balance of this conflict. So it's a government platform. Estonia is a firm friend of Ukraine, supports Ukraine in its path and stands next to it in order to prevent Russia's aggression along with our partners in Western countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U119	Thank you. As time has gone quite quickly and we do not have five minutes left for the question and answer, you will all have the opportunity to ask the ministers questions in the next Question Hours. Thank you very much. Today's Question Time is over. Closure of the sitting at 1.57 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-18_U120	Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to say a few words before starting today's sitting. Today is 75 years since Otto Tief's government took office. On September 18, 1944, the Estonian legal power was restored and Jüri Uluots, the acting president, confirmed the government of the broad-based Otto Tief, established by the Estonian National Committee, on the basis of legal continuity. The first step of the government was the publication of a declaration in which the Republic of Estonia declared itself a neutral state in the current war and categorically demanded all foreign troops to leave the territory of Estonia immediately. The declaration was published in the Official Journal of the State and transmitted by radio to the world. Together with the announcement of the new government of the Republic, the Estonian National Committee, which has so far carried out the duties of shadow government, was dissolved. Parallel to the declaration of the Republic of Estonia in 1918 is fully recognizable. There was also one occupyant, Germany, leaving Estonia and another invading Russia. In the ensuing war of freedom, victory was won on both sides, who tried to suppress the newlywed state and the nation's attempts at freedom by means of a weapon. Now the situation was more complicated, but the hope of success still existed. In reality, Otto Tief's government came into a very difficult situation from the very beginning, and Estonia lacked both military and economic resources to escape. Colonel Maide, a former military commander, had no significant military forces; there were no contacts with the Estonian units on the front. Estonia was occupied. Thus, the announcement of the government was of great importance in view of Estonia's far-reaching future, regaining independence and the legal continuity of our country. Today we can be grateful to all these men and salute them. Thank you for your attention. We will proceed to the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu with the 2nd working week meeting on Wednesday. There is an opportunity to pass on requests for information and drafts. I don't think that's the wish today. Then we'll conduct a presence check. Thank you. There are 86 members of the Riigikogu, no 15. Honourable Riigikogu! Unfortunately, on the agenda of today's sitting, we do not have any points. The sitting is adjourned. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 2.04 p.m.
