ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start this month's sessions. I hope you're all well rested and full of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U2	The Monday session of the 4th working week of the second plenary session will begin with the oath of office. Dear Riigikogu! Due to the resignation of a member of the Riigikogu Kalle Palling, Mart Võrguship became a member of the Riigikogu on 30 September of this year. Next, we will hear his oath. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U3	Hello, good Riigikogu! Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. (Applause)
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, Now everyone has the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. First Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs presents two draft decisions of the Riigikogu. First of all, to amend the decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' and second, to amend the decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe'. The proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is to set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the Riigikogu Board on Friday 18 October at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U6	Next, please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U7	President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Rural Development Committee initiates a draft law amending the Land Reform Act and the Land Acquisition Act issued in the course of the land reform. Small farmers in agriculture approached the Chancellor of Justice with concern that the implementation of § 34 (6) of the Land Reform Act would lead to unnecessary costs and administration for small producers and has not led to the purpose of the Act. Paragraph 34 (6) of the Law was adopted in order to ensure the continuity of agricultural production in the family if the holder of the land so far does not want or can no longer carry out agricultural activities. In such cases, land ownership may be transferred to a family member only on condition that the family member is self-employed, if the agricultural production transferred by the family member takes the form of a private limited company or a public limited company. The Chancellor of Justice found this preference discriminatory.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U8	Next, the representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U9	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. First, to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting, the draft law ratifying the multilateral convention on the implementation of measures relating to tax treaties. Secondly, the draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when these two draft laws are processed in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on Disease Control, the State Tax Act, the Feed Act, the Food Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Rural Affairs Mart Järvik when processing this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U10	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six drafts and they are dealt with in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Next, please, presence check! There are 93 delegates and there are no 8. I am voting on the approval of the 4th working week agenda of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 89 members of the Riigikogu in favour, none against. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U11	Let us move on to today's subject, which is the first reading of the Bill 33 on Supplementing the Law on the Organisation of Research and Development, initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please, waitress, member of the Riigikogu Katri Raik!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U12	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present to you, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, a law supplementing the law on the organisation of research and development, the content of which everyone is aware. This is based on the agreement concluded in December 2018 between political parties, according to which, in the years to come, the financing of Estonian science should represent 1% of Estonia's gross domestic product. As we all remember, all parliamentary parties today signed this agreement, except one party, the Estonian Conservative People's Party, who thought that 1% was too little for science. Let us see what has happened today, and then it will also be understandable why the Social Democrats are proposing to fix the funding of science in law. The deal hasn't been made. Next year's state budget shows that 0.74% of GDP is planned for science. First class mathematics says the increase is 0.03% compared to this year, so it's a long way to 1%. I would like to point out, in comparison, that the Social Democrats have submitted, in their amendments to the law, the volume of research funding for next year to 0.83% of gross domestic product. So it's 0.74% now, the Social Democrats offer 0.83%. 1% should be achieved by 2022, according to our amendment to the law. A bad story, like I said, is breaking a promise. Breaking the promise for researchers who were promised 1% of gross domestic product. The promise has been broken in front of those who take Estonia's life forward. I would like to draw attention to Professor Jüri Allik, a psychologist who wrote a very effective article last March, where he pointed out how influential Estonian scientists are. He compared references and the proportion of top articles and pointed out that we are among the first ten countries in the world in terms of scientific visibility and influence. I have to move from here to finance higher education because higher education and science are one of the bloodstreams and are inextricably linked. We have things in higher education and science that we do well. We have good infrastructure, we have put a lot of euro money into education and research infrastructure. For this, we are commended by all the international expert committees that visit Estonia. Today we can be happy and satisfied that we have achieved a balance in our research funding: 50% of the money goes to basic funding and 50% is the amount that researchers can apply for. However, today we are in a situation where we must recognise that without additional money we will not be able to guarantee today's quality. Let me give you an example. Today's doctoral student grant is 660 euros. Before the elections, we talked about a number of political parties, at least about the average wage. A 5% increase in funding for higher education is foreseen for next year. If all this money was put into doctoral student support, because no one could dream of it any more, but rather put the pay of those teachers who have received a doctorate, who work as assistants-lectors, who do most of the bachelor's, applied higher education studies, then their pay would rise to around EUR 60, 1200, 1300, 1400, about EUR 60. Clearly, this is not enough. I understand that the Chair of the Riigikogu is not the place to ask questions about the quiz, but yet I have to ask. What do you think is lower in Estonia, the minimum wage of a patrol officer or the minimum wage of a doctorate researcher at the University of Tartu? I stress that the University of Tartu is among the 300 leading universities in the world. If I ask you that, it is understandable that unfortunately, the minimum salary for a researcher is lower. I asked the Human Resources Department of the University of Tartu today, with a doctorate, the researcher receives a minimum of 1350 euros and a patrol officer receives 1400 euros. I don't underestimate the work of a police officer, but it's time to focus on higher education and science. I'd like to give our higher education a heads-up before we go any further. OECD studies show that our modern higher education, which we provide after the end of the Soviet period, after the end of the transitional period, is the sixth place in the world in terms of the functional reading skills it provides, i.e. the ability to work independently and independently in a position suitable for higher education. We must realise that there is no important and non-essential science and higher education. We have often taken the path of one or another discipline, one or another higher education cult in Estonia. I was surprised myself by reading Eurostat's review of 2017 and comparing Estonia with those countries with which we still try to compare ourselves with the Netherlands or the Nordic countries, that we have twice as many IT students as in these countries, but who we have considerably fewer, there are people who learn to provide social services. We must maintain a balance in higher education. We do not know what will ultimately lead us to success, nor should national science, whether history or Estonian, be underestimated in science. The investment in science is not immediately visible, but yet as a person with a doctorate, I am also a believer in research and must bully you with another study carried out at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications at the end of 2017. This pointed out that every job in the Estonian university supports five more jobs elsewhere in the Estonian labour market, 1 euro creates 4.5 euros of gross value added and 7 euros of gross value added creates indirect value added. A summary of a relatively difficult study for me as a historian, yet it is clear that university education and the work of researchers are crucial to our economy. Ladies and gentlemen, Science and higher education. Teachers' pay, higher education and science, I would say, is an investment in the future. And like defence costs, with which we have all agreed that this is enshrined in the law, contributing to science in the law deserves to be mentioned with 1% of gross domestic product from 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U13	Thank you. Now all of you, ladies and gentlemen, have the opportunity to put up to two questions to the rapporteur, the length of which is one minute. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U14	Good manager! Good waitress! That's right. All of this how much EUR 1 brings added value. But I am very concerned that the Social Democrats are also enthusiastically talking about moving towards unconditional climate neutrality, but that means 2% of gross domestic product each year. As much as we have to spend on physical security. And my question. This 20 million extra next year, etc., is actually cuisine next to this 2%. But look at the whole picture. So where do you get that 2%? Because, well, the end of the world is pretty close, either to 2050 or to 2030, if we're going to cross it at 1.5 degrees.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U15	As far as the end of the world is concerned, Mr Ernits, I do not know what to say to you, but there is a question of setting priorities, which is important, whether there are important defence costs, is the importance of science, higher education, climate neutrality. All are important issues that are our priorities. That is where money must be found, and that is where money will be found if there are clear priorities. There's been a breach of the promise of science. Promise to the people who counted on the politicians to pay the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U16	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U17	Thank you! Good waitress! At the moment, I heard such a criticism that it was as if people had promised and that conclusions had already been drawn from it. This process looked a little different; we, as members of the Riigikogu, also looked different. Have they already made such expenses that they also have, let us say, legitimate expectations and financial support are essential?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U18	Understandably, universities have not been able to raise their salaries right now, because they have not had the means to do so. So I don't think there's been any expenses that should be paid later. The question is, what I tried to point out is that the salaries of both researchers and academics have fallen considerably in the way of time. With this salary, which is now, we cannot guarantee high quality higher education, we must give up significantly in quality. We will probably also arrive at a free and paid higher education discussion in this hall sooner or later. Even if the discussion of free and paid higher education is so up in society, it shows that universities are really in trouble that it is not a joke.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U19	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U20	Good manager! Good waitress! Everything you say is in God's right and right direction. There's no question about that, but look at the whole picture. If the world's end is supposedly 2050 or even 2030, according to more recent studies, and we need to start whipping ourselves with climate-neutrality and find 2% of GDP every year, I stress, every year, and the world's end is supposed to be so close, then what costs are these teachers' salaries and research grants, there is nothing more to do with that. The big picture should actually focus on this 2% here, ma'am.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U21	Thank you for your question. I hope you will send me a reference to this study, which shows that the world will end in 2030 or 2050.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U22	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U23	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! For me, it is simply a somewhat surprising speech by my colleague, Mr Ernits, because I remember that at the time when the science agreement was signed, the EKRE supported the fact that 2% should actually be allocated to science instead of 1%. I will also add to the clarification that it seems that my colleague has misunderstood, that 2% of the climate will not come in addition to the 2% climate, that there may be a decision that instead of a refinery, we will put 600 million into meeting the climate targets and not in introducing old technology. So it is not an addition, it is clearly a review of the budgetary priorities. But how can you comment on whether the position of the EKRE has changed? In December they supported the allocation of 2% to science, and now the problem is also a percentage.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U24	Thank you for your question. The representatives of the Estonian Conservative People's Party themselves should comment on how their position on the funding of science has changed or whether it has changed, but once again, it is clear that where we invest money is the issue of setting priorities. The budget can be revised. It is possible that it is also necessary to consider whether and under what conditions we are prepared to take out a loan in order to move forward in order for Estonia to really be a rich country. Without science, Estonia is not a rich country, and without promoting science, we will certainly not achieve climate neutrality.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U25	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm sure you've also thought about putting this bill on the table, that if there is no money now, what are these possible scenarios? One of the possible scenarios, of which a bit of a sneak talk, though not very politically active, still concerns the network of study places. Our school network is often linked to the number of study places and economic costs and how much is actually going to study. Have you also analysed this side a little, that if this extra money does not come to science now, when will the real time of university autonomy be reached, when will it be said that we will not actually be able to maintain regional balance and therefore only be taught where there are large centres, or where there are people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U27	Thank you for your question. I understand that you refer in a certain way to what happens to colleges set up by universities, and also to whether or not you should pull up study places, whether you want to close down some specializations, to reduce any study places. After all, for the last seven years, the state has not said how many places of study the university will create. The university is supported and the university is quite free in its decisions, with the exception of those points which are then written in advance. There's a lot of talk about duplication. In recent weeks, I have been trying to make it clear to myself how much duplication we will actually have within universities and between universities. I'm pretty sure that the universities inside have fixed things up now, lost dubious specialties, put them together. After all, we also remember this time, I do not dare to say exactly now the year of the decision on the responsibilities of one university or another. In the example of the University of Tartu, I am convinced that the University of Tartu teaches mostly where its area of responsibility is, with individual exceptions, which mostly concern regional colleges. I agree that universities should see if and where there are savings points. I am sure that in this Chamber, these people are largely dominated, not by a large majority, but by a considerable number of people who have a law school, and that is why this is, of course, a dangerous example. I am not quite sure whether law must be taught in so many universities and in the way it is done. I'm sure there are some savings points here. How much savings this will actually bring at the end of the day, must be calculated accurately. Unfortunately, I have not done this, and it is difficult to do it manually, so we should ask the Ministry of Education to do it. As far as regional colleges are concerned, life has already brought them together. Had a college in Türi, was in Haapsalu, Rakvere. Last week we read that the College of Tallinn University of Technology in Saaremaa is looking for a new place. Today we still have full-scale colleges in Pärnu, Viljandi, Kohtla-Järve and Narva. True, I have a very long experience as a college manager from Narva. Colleges were created at a time when there were many people in society who needed higher education, working people who paid for it. That time is over. Universities, together with their colleges, need to rethink the role of colleges and make it clear to society. Colleges need extra money, extra support, but this is for regional policy. For example, the organisation of psychological services in Viljandi, separate from Tartu, is more expensive than in Tartu. But it's a separate big discussion. Minister Aab was recently quite open to discussion here on the very floor in order to support colleges, so this discussion is definitely still ahead. In short, there are certainly austerity points, but how much it saves us is a question of its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U28	Thank you. Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U29	Honourable performer! I'd like to come back to this science a little bit more narrowly. In my opinion, the situation has been extremely alarmive for many years and it is culminating today. Certainly, as you said very rightly, one thing is the issue of pay, but the other is that real science is not only about the person who gets paid, but also about the other costs that are very important. In reality, it is not about wages being low, it is also about the fact that entire working groups, which have been working at a very high level of science for decades, are about to close down or have already stopped. We end up with our own hands, our own country shuts down our own scientists. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U30	Thank you for your question. This is a serious problem. When one of the research groups closes down, something to do again, something to start over is very difficult. Very resource-intensive financially and where to find people. As I also tried to point out in my report that we do not have so-called bad and good science, we have to keep different science alive in our small country, without favouring one another, because once again, we do not know where this Estonian Nokia comes from, or is Estonia Nokia that we do not have our own Nokia and that we have an equally progressive country.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U31	Thank you. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! An extremely important direction, but since this was about 2%, I would ask you about this overlap. How much of this proposed amount should go to military or, to say the least, national defence research, and what is this amount now? We have a defence research center, we have research facilities at the Defence Academy. If you could tell me.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U33	Thank you for your question. I am unfortunately indebted to the answer here, but we are talking about 1% of gross domestic product, right, to the financing of science. True, this money does not have to come through the Ministry of Education and Research. Different ministries put different amounts of money into research. Fortunately, other ministries have understood the importance of research and this percentage has increased faster than the country's overall purse for science. But I promise I'll look into the answer and answer you in writing, if that's all right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U34	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. Next, I would like to ask Jaak White, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and honourable technical staff, who you may have to, can't leave here, but really don't want to listen to me at all. I have the honour to present a report on the debate on the subject in the Commission. The Commission meeting took place on 23 September. All members of the Committee on Culture took part. There was also a member of the Riigikogu, Jürgen Ligi, and in addition, the Minister of Education and Research Mailis Reps, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry for General Education, Language and Youth Policy Kristi Vinter-Nemvalts, Head of the Legal Department Sille Uusna, Head of the Department of External Assessment Kristin Hollo and Deputy Chancellor of Higher Education and Science Indrek Reimand. The contents of the draft act introduced us all to the previous speaker and did so obviously very correctly. I don't need to go over it at all. However, I am also a historian and will allow me a short look back on the funding of research and development. I also promise that I will not go back to Päts' time, although I would very much like to. I'm going over the last six years. In view of the share of GDP, public funding for R &amp; D fell from 2013 to 2016 and the low point was in 2016, when it was 0.57% of GDP. Since 2017, funding started to increase, in 2019 it was 0.71% and this year it is 0.74%. I would point out that this is public funding so that we do not confuse. But now let's look at all the funding and look at the comparative data. I do not have any very recent data, but Eurostat comparative data will be available until 2017. This year the total funding for Estonian research was 1.29% of GDP, and with this we were slightly below the European Union average. From post-socialist countries we were down to Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, but we crossed Latvia and Lithuania very strongly and Ireland, Luxembourg and Spain from Western European countries. However, the EU average was, unfortunately, much higher than the EU average of 2.06%. I would point out that this is an objective which is also included in the EKRE programme. The thing that I didn't see in the process of collecting these data and calculating the percentage is the proportion of public funding and private funding. I have to say that I had one hypothesis that was confirmed during these percentage calculations. Indeed, in terms of public funding, we were already at the average level of the European Union in 2017. We had 0.66%, with an average of 0.68% in the European Union. This means that in 2019 we should already have an average or perhaps slightly higher share of public funding in the European Union. Nevertheless, it is clear that the funding of science is indeed inadequate and the very important reason is that the proportion of research funding in Estonia is very strongly inclined towards public funding from the European average. While the share of public funding in the European Union is 33% on average, it is 51% in Estonia. I will also tell you about the regularity of the rules, as we know, each rule has some exceptions, namely that the higher the amount of research funding, the greater the proportion of private funding. With less private funding than Estonia, only Latvia and Lithuania are from the countries of the European Union. Compared to Estonia, or with a slightly higher share of private funding, in short, Greece, Croatia and Portugal are better off. I calculated these percentages late in the evening, if I'm wrong about 1/10 here, then I apologize for the fact check, but I'm certainly not wrong about the big lines. Therefore, I come to the conclusion that even more important than increasing public funding is actually making development and research funding attractive to private money, in other words, facing the needs of the Estonian economy and society. That is what I said in a slightly different wording at that meeting of the Commission, so I did not exceed my mandate here as a representative of the Commission. I am also pleased to understand that the Ministry of Education and Research has already acknowledged this problem earlier, well, which I may not have been so happy about, but he has, in any case, been aware of before I started talking about it. He has initially applied this knowledge to this year's budget in a relatively modest manner. I will now refer to what happened at the other meeting of the Commission. Technical issues were discussed. In particular, what should be taken into account when budgeting as a percentage of GDP, either from the GDP outcome of the previous year or from the forecast for that year. Indrek Reimand then presented the position of the Government of the Republic and, according to Reimand, the Government of the Republic supports the objective of raising public funding for R &amp; D to 1% of gross domestic product, but does not support writing it into the law. I quote Reimandit: laying down the level of funding in the law does not provide additional guarantees to meet the 1% target compared to what was agreed in the strategies. The chairman then proposed to refer the draft to first reading. All in favor: Black and White and others. The Commission did not initially formulate a favourable or counter-opinion. That concludes the Commission's report, but I would dare to prevent the EKRE of one question on a much-spoken 2%. What's left of me here is to quote it again as a historian about the EKRE program. It sounds like, "Let's change [... ] The research funding and evaluation system is Estonian-centred and we raise research investment to 2% of GDP. ' Very simple, that is to say, if the funding and evaluation system for education and research is Estonian-centred and considering investments, i.e. private funding and public funding, then EKRE aims at 2%, which is currently the European Union average. At this point, I don't know the exact number, but I think it's 1.5% close. That is what we will learn when the corresponding figures from Eurostat come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U36	Thank you. It is now possible for all members of the Riigikogu to submit two one-minute questions to the representative of the Commission. The first one is Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please! Yes, please, Mikhail Lotman!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U37	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Am I wrong to understand that the representative of the Commission must refer to what was said in the Commission but not to give lectures on his opinions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U38	Thank you. The chairman of the committee, I'm sorry! The representative shall give an overview of what took place in the Commission and shall also have the right to state his or her position. But now, in order to get a more precise view, everyone has a chance to ask questions. First please, Mikhail Ossinovski. [[Laughter.]] I'm sorry! The names are messed up again. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U39	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. You did indeed anticipate about half of my question, and that is why I do not need to make one point in my question, for which I thank you. However, the general question concerns what you said about the progress of the Commission's debate, where Vice-President Reimand said that the government would support the allocation of 1% of GDP to R &amp; D, but it will do so in the way that Taavi Aas supports another move morally, but the budget does not provide for this money. In this context, I ask you how you appreciate the situation in which the leaders of political parties belonging to the government union have either morally supported, or even signed, the agreement that in spring 1% of GDP will be written into the country's budget strategy, but that is not there. How do you, as a scientist, view this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U40	It's a complicated question. I might try to please Mr Lotman this time and say that this was not discussed at the committee meeting. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U41	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U42	Yeah. I do have a question about your lecture, though. You said that, look, right now we are not raising this public or public support, but we are working to get it out of private capital. How can you achieve this if you do not increase state support?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U43	Well, there are a lot of different models of how to do it. Now, if I were to start explaining my vision at length, I think I have some ideas on this subject, but if I were to explain it further, I could, well, like, how to say, not as a target for the most benevolent questions. The principle is the theme of science. Is this done, for example, through business associations, through ETAg, partly through ministries? There's a lot of options.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U44	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U45	Thank you. I also have a question about private money in research and development. There is no doubt that we also need to increase the contribution of the private sector, but it does not seem to me that it is as simple as your speech left it that, well, let companies simply put more into R &amp; D. Have you examined any assumptions? In those countries where the share of private money is higher, are there more people who are well-prepared, the public sector has contributed, there are more researchers in the population? Are there any assumptions as to the size of the company? Will this contribution to research and development come from certain sectors, such as the pharmaceutical industry, which does not exist in Estonia? So in order to get private money into R &amp; D, there are a number of assumptions and the creation of these assumptions still requires public contributions. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U46	I totally agree, yes! Thank you, very reasonable question! Without doubt, there are a number of assumptions and, without doubt, Estonian entrepreneurship is perhaps not the most advantageous either, or, let's say, its ownership structure is not the most advantageous in order for entrepreneurs to contribute to the development of research, is it? Our business is a very large part of foreign ownership and they are not interested in developing in Estonia. But even before I did, I labeled it, and I will no doubt agree with you that it is not easy, and in fact I did not say it in my so-called lecture, either, so that it would be easy. The lecture would have been if I had returned Päts' time. But there is certainly one key issue in the subjecting process.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U47	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U48	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable performer! I will now, in some ways, continue my colleague's previous question. I'll just give you an example. If you think it's possible to fill it in the rest of the so-called empty space or empty bag with private funding, we can essentially write down the medical sciences, the biological research lines. You said you had to choose the subjects. Today, however, we have private hospitals that actually only feed on the money from the Health Insurance Fund, taxpayers' money. How do you imagine they're going to support biological subjects, medical subjects with private funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U49	Thank you for your question. I'm going to adjust it a little bit. I'm sorry if I'm so understood that I think that the whole "hole" should be filled with private funding. I never said that. But I am saying that the proportion of our total funding is not accurate. Without doubt, public funding must also be gradually increased as much as our prosperity permits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U50	Thank you. Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U51	Good waitress! I would like to ask for a reminder of when there was a low level of funding and who was a minister at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U52	The funding gap was in 2016, when we were talking about the last decade, and the minister was, in my opinion, Maris Lauri was the member of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U53	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U54	Thank you. The correct answer to the previous question is, of course, that the low level of research funding in 2016 was due to the fact that it was the two transitional years of the euro period and, as a result, the money flowing from the euro was reduced to science. The money given by the Estonian state increased this year, so it is not worth drawing the conclusions that my colleague wanted to draw. However, I would like to ask you this question, perhaps in another way, the same thing that I asked on the first question, which I did get a laconic answer to. What, as a scientist and a scientist-knowing person, you would now recommend to Estonian researchers in a situation where it has been pointed out for a long time that funding is insufficient, but the various tests, the science agreement and many other initiatives have not actually produced results. Your party partner has called all this a grudge of red professors, advised you to move if you don't like it. What would you suggest? Do you want to keep protesting, wait patiently or, like your party partner, stop talking and if you don't like it, move away?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U55	Thank you for such a benevolent question. I'm not sure you quoted my partymate's reasoning very accurately, but okay. I believe that my fellow scientists are perfectly aware that research funding has increased to a total of EUR 16 million this year. This increase has been, if you now consider the last five years, probably the fastest increase. The second thing is that I think that my fellow scientists feel the same way that the scientific evaluation and financing model as a whole needs to be changed. I believe that my fellow scientists also understand that the funding of science depends on the general level of prosperity of society. I believe that my fellow scientists also understand that this promise of 1% public funding will not remain a promise.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U56	Thank you. Looks like there's no more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Draft 33 SE... Oh, I'm sorry! Is there a wish to open negotiations on whether the representatives of the political groups have a wish to speak? I don't think that's what I want either. In that case, the first reading of Bill 33 is completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 33 including 21 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U57	Now a free microphone follows. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Since there are no words, then... I'm sorry, yes, Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U58	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! Good people of Estonia! This week, October 10th, 100 years will pass by one of the most important laws in the history of Estonian parliamentarianism, to be passed by our Constituent Assembly. It was a law that brought an end to the manservant and gave in to the men who fought in the war of freedom at the time. Land reform among the people was very much awaited, as the majority of Estonia's land was still owned by nearly 7000 Baltic German landlords, while 2/3 of the population was completely free of land. There was a war on freedom, and Estonian men wanted to fight for their country, not for the land belonging to the Baltic German barons anymore. When the Constituent Assembly met in April 1919, our first parliament had a leading role for social democrats along with the Estonian Labour Party. Immediately, the Constituent Assembly began to discuss the redistribution of land, the drafting of land law. All the major parties represented at the then Constituent Assembly, the parties were convinced of the necessity of the land law, but the question of how exactly to do so was, of course, a heated debate. If then the majority of the left-wing parties were in favour of such a rapid and radical reform, then the right-wing parties believe that the land reform should have been carried out in a more moderate form, gradually over a longer period of time. In the end, the Constituent Assembly was largely left over with the ideas of the left-wing parties. On October 10, 1919, after disputes and discussions, the Socialist August Rei led the Founding Assembly reached the final vote on the Land Act. One of the most important laws in Estonia's history was voted by 63 of the 120 MEPs, 1 abstention, 9 votes against came from the Baltic Germans. Most of the members of the Land People's Union who were against the law in this form left the Chamber during the vote. By the way, after the adoption of the law, the Baltic German barons also turned to the winner countries of World War I, but it remained largely a shouter in the desert. By the adopted land reform, the Estonian state transferred all the estates and other land of major ownership on the territory of the Republic of Estonia, with a total of 2.3 million hectares, i.e. almost 97% of the large land ownership. As a rule, agricultural assets were disposed of together with land. However, the payment of the land fee remained open in the Land Act and was later to be determined by a special law. The estates transferred from the landlords at the time were cut up into farms, a medium-sized 16.4 hectares, originally rented out to the public under the right of permanent use, and later converted into real farms. Six years after the land reform, 70% of the land had already been divided and 41000 new farms had been created. The manor time had become history and without a radical land reform it would have been difficult to imagine the birth of the Republic of Estonia. The left had given the country back to the Estonians. Thank you. [[A little applause.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-07_U59	Thank you. I thank Jaak Juske for this very interesting reminder. Any other words? Looks like there isn't any more. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 15.55 p.m.
