ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. It's 12 o'clock, and that means it's English custom to say, "Good day! ', no more 'Good morning! '. As usual, we are scheduled for Question Time today. Initiating presence check. There's 53 of us, 48 missing. We can start Question Time. The following members of the Government will take part in the Question Hour: Minister of the Interior Mart Helme Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab. Some procedural remarks. Askers can ask questions according to a confirmed order, a member of the Riigikogu may register only for one question. Two minutes to ask the question, three minutes to answer. The questioner will be able to provide one additional question and one additional question can also be submitted from the floor. Let's try and get this done. And if we find that enough has already been done about this, the President can say that he will stop dealing with this issue. These are the basic rules that are certainly very well known to those present.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U2	Let's start by asking questions. The first question is, according to the approved list from Riina Sikkut to the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, who performs the duties of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U3	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In life, it is quite possible that the minister and the chancellor will not get along humanly. Understood. The Minister may prefer stronger administrative management, may prefer a modern inclusive management style. The reasons for non-swimming cooperation are different and undoubtedly non-swimming cooperation would hamper the development of the sector. That is why the law provides for the possibility of resolving the conflict between persons, with a democratic mandate for a predominantly minister being given a stronger position here. This general rule makes perfect sense. Minister for Rural Affairs Mart Järvik has proposed to the Government that Chancellor Illar Lemetti be removed from office. There is no doubt that the Minister has the legal right to make such a proposal, but I stress that this is a very important decision for democracy in Estonia. It is understandable that Järvik's cooperation with Lemetti is not working well, but it is necessary to assess precisely what is the reason for this cooperation's failure in terms of the continuation of the democratic rule of law. According to publicly available information, the Minister has wished to involve Chancellor Lemetti in cooperation which harms the interests of the State. The DA's office is investigating whether the proposed cooperation is a criminal offence. Chancellor Lemetti has refused to cooperate criminally against the country's interests as an honest official. It is now necessary for the government to decide whether or not to dismiss an official who has refused an agreement against the interests of the Estonian state on a proposal from the Minister. What's your decision? Can you give officials who do their work honestly the assurance that they do not have to fear political repression when they comply with the laws of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U4	Mr. Acting Prime Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U5	Thank you. Well, a very long and thorough, very analytical speech. But the question is very simple. If some state officials have doubts that the Minister is doing something illegal, he will not run into newspapers or leak documents intended for official use of the Ministry, but will report the crime to the relevant law enforcement authorities and the law enforcement authorities will deal with it. This has not happened in this case. In this case, there has been a leaking of documents, and as far as I am concerned, the documents have been leaked selectively. I don't think that's the most ethical thing to do. I think that the Minister should also have the right to have a say in this matter. If the cooperation fails, the government will discuss the issue that has been brought to the government, hear the Minister's reasoning and then take a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U6	Does Riina Sikkut have an additional question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U7	In Question Time last week, I asked Finance Minister Martin Helme what these criteria were for a good official. His answer was brief and specific, he did not touch at all on leaking and counterworking. Good is an official who follows the law. If an official follows the law, he's a good official. After all, there is no need for a good official to be dismissed, for a bad official to be dismissed, for a bad official who has broken the law. What law has Chancellor Lemetti broken? If you can't point it out, I'll ask you if you think it's right that the minister basically completes the entire official body politically.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U8	Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U9	Yeah, you see, both can be very good people, both can be very competent, but both can be very bad people and very incompetent. It's not as important in this case as you're trying to show me here. The question is very fundamental. If the cooperation between the two parties does not work out, the law gives the Minister the opportunity to propose that the Chancellor be removed from office. And it's that simple. Both can be good and competent, but cooperation may not work out anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U10	Additional question from the floor. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U11	Thank you. Good Minister of the Interior in charge of the Prime Minister! I will start by saying that it is very difficult to write questions in this Question Time. Today, we put Riina Sikkut on the topic "Ministry of Land Life," but perhaps all ministries should have. Things happen so quickly that maybe we should ask about the Ministry of Defence and NATO, but we'll get there. My question still comes about the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and that is my question. Peeter Ernits, a member of your group, has said that he has taken such an indictment that the Food and Veterinary Office is guilty of this matter before all investigations have been carried out. Listeria is not an easy thing, it is still a very serious issue and needs to be investigated more closely in the ministry. My question is why, as the chairman of a political party, you do not call members of your group to order them to make such, already conviction decisions at this stage. It is not beneficial in its entirety, but rather harmful.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U12	I remember, about seven months ago, there was a person in that box who had a "Word is Free" written on his stomach. There is also the word free Peter Ernitsa. Peeter Ernits can write articles based on his vision, based on his arguments, and I think that neither the chairman of the party nor the Minister for the Interior nor the Prime Minister nor the Chairman of the Riigikogu nor the Chairman of the political group can tell him: 'Speak! Shut up! No talking, no writing! " The word is free, and the expression of freeness is one of the most important features of a free society. It is, of course, symptomatic that the socialists want to ban it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U13	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U14	I give the floor to Keit Pentus Rosimud. He also has a question for the Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U15	Thank you. Good manager! Mr Helme, who is responsible for the Prime Minister's duties. My question is about the bomb you detonated in your interview yesterday. Honestly, I feel sorry for you. It now turns out that in addition to the Estonian mainstream media, the Finnish media have started to bully you. Everyone gets the wrong idea. But when I look at the statements you've made, there's actually one consistent and systematic thing that stands out for everyone. You drip a drop after a drop, you lay a stone after these statements and steps, which ultimately only tore Estonia away from our current allies and push us into isolation, leaving us alone. We all know the list. Be it Helme's sole decision to loosen Estonia from previous allies and leave us alone to block the conclusions of the European Union Member States on the ESM issue, whether it is to invite Le Pen, the fiery supporter of the annexation of Crimea, to Estonia and, despite the great astonishment of our allies, to host it or whether it is public mocking the European Union, to equalise the Union of Freedoms for Estonia with the Soviet Union that occupied us. And now the new low point of undermining NATO's credibility. Mikhail Korb resigned because of a similar statement because everyone agreed that it would not be possible for him to continue as a minister if he undermined NATO's credibility. Has Prime Minister Jüri Ratas asked you to resign because such statements from a member of the government, Deputy Prime Minister, cannot be tolerated?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U16	Thank you for your question. The question betrays the inability to read the questioner or the inability to think functionally. If you had finished reading this article, you would have read what I actually said. NATO is in a crisis, I hope this crisis will pass, NATO will come out of it strong, and it will still represent a strong security guarantee for Estonia against Russia. You must have missed it or missed it. Second of all, what do I say? I'm telling you, the world is changing very badly. We do not know what Britain will be like after Brexit, what its foreign and security policy will be like. We do not know what Germany will be like after Merkel, for example, what its Russian policy will be like. We do not know whether France's foreign policy is increasingly heading towards the Mediterranean, or whether they will still have enough attention for Eastern Europe. That's what you didn't read, but of course you're making the wrong conclusions about propaganda, and you're assigning me some sort of thing. I admit the journalist misunderstood me. I made it very clear that plan B is needed because we do not know what the future will bring. What's Plan B? I will explain to you what plan B.Plan B is to increase our primary defence capability to a level where it is also self-inhibiting, so that we can wait until the allies really reach us with their slow, clumsy and politically unwilling decision-making mechanism. Such thoughts, of course, for you who have fought for many years against military duty and for a professional army, will not arrive. I'm sorry I can't make it. If you think about it, analyze it, and don't put eggs in just one basket, you'll understand. But I understand, of course, that the opposition is being pointed at and accused. Fortunately, a member of this Riigikogu, no longer a member of the Riigikogu, has even called me an influence agent. I'd like to thank you for the beautiful orders they put in my chest. But I think it is the influencers who have wanted to demolish Estonia's defence capabilities, who have lost the defence districts, who have failed to properly complete, equip, train, dislocate the second infantry brigade in all these decades. That's what influence agents are. You're welcome or if you don't mind, I'm NATO's fiery supporter, but I'm not a weak NATO supporter. And if you think you can't talk about it, you're very wrong. Look at that! I say to all of you: the worst thing about Estonia's defence capabilities, to Estonia's security is to lie to ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U17	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U18	Thank you, good manager. The worst are the members of the government who, in their words, undermine the work that has been done for decades, the alliances that have been tried and concluded and which have been very strong to date. Statements such as those you made yesterday undermine all the foundations that are essential to guarantee Estonia's security. It was not for nothing that your wholly inappropriate statement led to a very sharp reaction from the Minister of Defence. This shows that our allies needed to be overconfirmed by our conviction that NATO is a security guarantee, it works, and Estonia does not hesitate in any way. But, Mr Helme, you and your son, Martin Helme, called it a week before the Riigikogu elections, Jüri Ratas and Mailis Repsi Kremli fig sheets and Putin's minions. How do you feel about the story you are now saying that Estonia needs plan B instead of NATO has not itself turned out to be the Kremlin fig leaf?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U19	Thank you. You've written a good essay, and you've counted it well. I don't have anything else to answer. As regards the fact that we called someone someone before the elections, after the elections, when instead of politicians from the incompetent Reform Party, we started negotiating with the Centre Party to form a government, we talked these things straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U20	Jürgen Nearly an additional question from the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U21	Thank you, Mr Helme in Mr Ratas' duties. If you are talking about undermining, you should also explain how Estonian national defence is hollow and how the costs of over 2% were undermining. But what you are denying now is, unfortunately, a fact that has happened and it ties exactly to what your party associates have been talking about for two weeks in front of me. On the local radio, I heard exactly the same thing from Kalle Grünthal that NATO can no longer be considered and now it is up to itself. He talked about it for a long time and as long as they gave him the microphone. It wasn't some sort of random word-spoken thing, but it's a party-spoken thought and a point of discussion about NATO-scepticism has been heard several times from a number of Greeks. It fits perfectly with all this isolation policy, the separation of allies. Finland now found out that the Finnish Government learned from your words that Estonia must plan how Finland would protect Estonia. Tell me, isn't that the kind of shame you could resign for? The minister of one country goes and speaks in the press about how a whole other country must protect him and now Finland, not NATO anymore. How do you imagine your reputation now in Finland, let alone NATO?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U22	Well, I think there are more analytical centres in Finland and they're more competent than Jürgen Ligi. Finns will certainly draw their conclusions on joining NATO and cooperating on a very adequate level, so I am not worried about the Finns. However, I do have serious concerns that the leaders of NATO's many bearing Member States, just Donald Trump, Emmanuel Macron, have expressed doubts about NATO's capabilities. If you consider them all Russian agents, if you consider them all to be undermining NATO's credibility, if you consider the President of Turkey and the fact that Turkey intends to buy anti-aircraft complexes from Russia and therefore falls out of NATO's air defence system in essence, please turn to Macron, Trump, Erdogan and Angela Merkel, who is buying gas from Russia, and find out what the bull has with this Russia and what their relationship with NATO is and what their attitude towards NATO is. But if you think that Mart Helme is such a tough guy that he will either set NATO up or take NATO down, I thank you, indeed, for such an extremely high assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U23	We are done with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U24	Let us move on to the next question. Kalvi Tough, please question to Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U25	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Good Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps! My question is about teachers' salaries. I have to say that, from here on in the Riigikogu hall, there seems to be a great deal of confusion in this matter... Mart, don't disturb the Minister! I'm asking a question here... Looks like a pretty big mess. What am I relying on? When we read our budget here at second reading, our budget for the coming year, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was unable to give a very specific answer to my question about teachers' salaries. Here's the question. We all know that you have said that the teachers' minimum wage will rise by 5.2%. But as far as we can read this budget in the Riigikogu, the salary increase is only 2.5%. Perhaps somewhere the money for an additional wage increase has been "side-by-side" or found at the expense of other things. And as far as we're concerned, we've also learned where you think that extra money should come from. It should come from the same teacher's salary fund, at the expense of any other money available for educational expenditure. My question is that if teachers are paid 5.2% more wages, what should the local government and the school not do? What do you suggest they do?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U26	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, the most important issue of education in every year's budget reading is how much money comes and how this money is distributed. Making this year's budget, starting with the country's budget strategy, where we first started with savings and quite mysterious figures in billions and ending with making a specific budget, has been a rather fickle process. That's what we all have to admit. As a great supporter of education, I believe, of course, that the educational population was more involved in this and that concerns among the trade unions were very much felt. For three years, the previous government had a very strong stance to apply for a real increase of EUR 100 in the minimum rate. These were not only percentages and numbers, but each year actually EUR 100 came to the minimum. Of course, the expectation was to continue. Today's new government, of course, is also due to the fact that quite a lot of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education have continued, and that attitudes were very positive, and very quickly began to seek solutions to the three priority areas. These were the various health-related problems that we still wanted to solve, the issue of internal security and, of course, the pay of teachers. In order to raise the minimum wage for teachers, more money was sought and internal resources were also sought, and it was finally agreed that wages would rise to 1315 euros next year. It is true, a good questioner, and we have never concealed it by following our press releases, that from the beginning we have had the attitude that we have gained some of this money, but part of it we had to find within our field and part of it really comes from education subsidies more widely. These three parts together give a minimum threshold. The minimum rate is what every teacher really gets in early childhood education, general education, vocational education. All these other education benefits are understandable, as you have also raised your question, in support of the measures. In some municipalities, it reaches the school, in part it is a measure of the school network, in some places it is other grants. We have had these discussions, and for several years in a row, whether or not we should sign education grants more widely, or not more. But in any case, we will retain these resources to a large extent this year, so there will still be additional education support. It has a slightly different percentage in private schools and vocational schools, but it is 17.1% in general education.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U27	Thank you. Kalvi Tough, additional question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U28	Thank you. Good minister! What part of the local government or school should not do? Minister Aaviksoo said very clearly in his day that you should close some of the school houses, and there will be additional education money for you. You didn't answer my question about what should not be done. But I'll ask you another question, please answer both of you. How much and with whom did you discuss it? This money concerns all the municipalities, all the teachers, and I can say that many of these additional cuts became known only in the last few weeks when the money supporting education was brought together. How much have you talked it through with cities and parish alliances, teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U29	Thank you, good questioner! Surely the Social Democrats also know, having repeatedly been in government, that cuts are being discussed very seriously with everyone and that the budgetary strategy of the country next year will certainly also be taken into account. If we discuss in the Government of the Republic, as a preliminary process, what are the points of the state budget review today, I believe that the good questioner also knows that there will be a very serious review of each line, every issue, including the budgets of local governments. Do you really imagine, a good questioner, that in the case of a cut, for example, the mayor of Võru will be asked, does he agree with a 0.1% cut, for example, because the budget strategy for next year wants it? When we are talking about austerity measures in the field of education and research, we really went through a lot of lines within our ministry, and in many areas we had to stick together on some processes, for example, to cancel some of the traditional public events that we have organised every year. There are certainly people who are quite sad, if, for example, some regular annual conference, to which everyone is accustomed, does not take place this year. But that's exactly the austerity regime so we can raise the minimum. Local authorities once again confirm that there was no disproportionate focus. On the contrary, we were always looking for ways to minimise the risk to rural schools or other small schools in one place or another. All our calculations show that there is no very big leap in the school network or, for example, in the case of teachers. And once again, the increase in the threshold is what we see clearly as our priority, and the rise in the minimum rate is what the good questioner knows, too, your party, your trade unions have very clearly supported. The constant increase in the minimum rate is a very clear priority. Now from other education benefits. You know very well that some things have been written out more precisely in the law, but very many things are the subject of negotiations between local authorities and the state every year. You are also certainly aware of the fact that exactly some part of the education allowance has been written off, and we have been quite free in the last three years. Local authorities are getting significantly more money, but we are not going to report anything to them. Local authorities can make very much of their own decision in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U30	Thank you. Question from the floor, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U31	Thank you. Mrs. Reps! Last week you refused to give an assessment of Mart Järvik's party maladministration and systematic lying in a radio broadcast. I understand that some form of restraint was inevitable in your case at the time, but you did not save words when criticizing officials to be some kind of good practice not to disclose such maladministration and lying. I can assure you that such arbitrary or lying has not been in the good practice of government. As a rule, officials have not actually come into such a situation where they should defend themselves for the sake of revealing the truth. There was a similar episode yesterday. You gave the interview again, and you said to the vicious threat and humiliation that your female colleague was experiencing, yes, but it also relates to political technology. You repeated it many times. Please open these two episodes again! So how was this technologically arranged? What could have been done differently? And please tell me how a public official who sees lies and maladministration can simply swallow it and let himself be sidelined. Please tell me!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U32	Thank you, good questioner! I'm not gonna do my job for the manager. It is probably very difficult to link this issue to teachers' salaries, but I am still trying to help you a little. You may not have noticed, but the highest Estonian state official, the Secretary of State, is currently drawing up a summary which gives a very clear and unambiguous opportunity to evaluate the work of the officials, and he will certainly look up quite precisely where there are contradictions in the work of the minister. Well, on this surface, you can make an estimate. The reason I didn't make the assessment last week and I didn't make the assessment today is because we're waiting for the facts. We've heard a lot of interpretations here. And the questioner knows very well that there have been contradictions within the authorities at very different times. I'm sure you also heard yesterday that what I said on both Kuku Radio and the ERR broadcast is not whether officials make one decision or another. On the contrary, I repeatedly emphasised yesterday that in 30 years our authority has become very clearly professional. But if there are contradictions and it is not possible to move forward with the work in the field, then, as Riina Sikkut has quoted very nicely today, there are certain legislative options. I guess these are because the area, which in many parts is vital for Estonia, from food safety to other very important issues, including rural issues, would not stop. It can't stop, we can't. So, as far as estimates are concerned, I would, however, stand by for the report at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U33	We have also exhausted this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U34	Let us go to the fourth question posed by Signe Riisalo. The answer is Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U35	Thank you, good manager. Minister Jaak Aab! My question comes from the rather uneven contribution of local authorities to social protection. We know that social welfare activities in the field of child protection are largely autonomous local authorities, but when we look at the tables drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, we see very uneven behaviour with regard to them. We have local authorities that have increased the share of social protection costs paid from own resources to 4.3% by 2018 compared to 2007. But in the worst case, in this 11-year period, local authorities' own contribution has decreased from 15.3% to 5.3%, which is almost a triple reduction in expenditure. And it is important to note that in the case of 26 municipalities, this reduction has been more than 20% financially and in the case of 10 municipalities at least 40%, so this picture is rather drastic. In addition to what the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister are doing in their area of government, I have a question as to what measures the Minister of Public Administration has taken and planned for the future because of his powers. How can local authorities be affected to plan their budgets so that people can receive more equal assistance in all municipalities?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Thank you, good questioner! Social protection costs in general, both in our country and the services provided by local governments and the resources spent on it, have been under observation for a long time. In this Chamber, too, there are people who, while working in the Ministry of Social Affairs and being a minister, have tried to regulate this issue precisely at the level of the law. After all, there were long attempts to set certain standards for social services, which would either increase the minimum that is currently in the law, or establish this minimum. However, unfortunately, some years ago, these negotiations must have been relatively sandy, as the municipalities also calculated a number of funds that the state could not provide either as a revenue base for the municipalities or as a targeted grant. Yes, if we look at the general situation now, then lately, when we look at the wallet, the municipalities are doing better. In view of the longer term, I admit that this has also come under discussion in the negotiations, we have met three times this year with the basic delegations of the municipal associations, and everyone has more or less agreed that one area where there is a certain backwardness is social protection. There is no need to prove this to anyone, and this has been highlighted. However, if we are talking about slightly more positive developments, the increase in social protection expenditure in 2018 compared to the expenditure in 2017 was once again over the field, isn't it, 17%, or this year, in view of the increase in average expenditure in other areas, it was actually a priority for municipalities? What were the reasons? One reason is that local governments have an increase in their income base, which was decided precisely in 2017 and has now increased for several years in a row, in addition to good wage growth and income tax receipts, the percentage of personal income tax and the volume of the fine-tuning fund have also increased. These available resources have been targeted at social protection in recent years. The administrative-territorial reform, I say 'administrative-territorial reform', ended in 2017, but the administrative reform, or content, that is, what governments do, and the way in which we can organise these things better together with the central government of the country, will continue. This is also demonstrated by the fact that more specialists are employed in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U37	Thank you. Questioner Signe Riisalo, additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U38	Thank you. One painful series of topics is long-term care, in which local authorities also play a major role, but their financial contribution is small today, okay? At least 80% are covered by the persons themselves and their dependent family members. However, in the case of long-term care, this model has also been discussed as a financing option in discussions between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs, where the state would put some amount on its own and the local government would finance long-term care on the same scale. How likely do you think that the behaviour of local authorities today as an autonomous budget planner is that such a model could really be sustainable?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U39	Thank you, again a very good question! I can refer to the minister next to me, the Minister for Education, who has already actually motivated municipalities to contribute more with this initiative on a number of issues concerning young people, children and education. For example, when it comes to the pay of kindergarten teachers: when the state allocated additional funding to municipalities under certain conditions, yes, in some places the pay of kindergarten teachers went up twice, and precisely where it was very unevenly behind the pay of other municipalities. Speaking of long-term care, these models were actually three, as far as I know. The Ministry of Social Affairs has done a very good job in this regard; it has considered these models very thoroughly. As Minister of State Administration, I am certainly in favour of this option, so that the service and care are as close to people as possible. Local authorities must play a greater role in this. I am not in favour of centralisation when we are talking about maintenance or long-term care. And it seems to me, too, that this model, in which the state, under certain conditions, supports municipalities with extra money in this area, is reasonable. We have discussed this once in the government office, but the financial side has now been pushed into the negotiation phase of the next country's budget strategy, so we will come back to it in spring. We are very seriously working in the negotiation process on those working groups where local government representatives in various areas, including social affairs, are negotiating these issues. There is availability and the work is becoming more and more substantial and the state has already done something to ensure that these services are better developed and developed in the municipalities. In recent years, the Structural Funds of the European Union have also provided money for the development of social services, both for the adaptation of housing and for the development of support staff services and for a number of other things. We are trying to improve both content and resource capacity. And, at first glance, as I said, apart from the administrative-territorial reform, the capacity of larger and more capable municipalities is reflected in the fact that they are able to involve better professionals in this area as well, to pay more attention to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U40	Thank you. Question about the floor. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U41	Thank you. Mr. Minister of State Administration! I believe you will not accept the assessment that Estonia has developed a governance practice that would allow lie and party principle to interfere with independent functions. Such a custom, I hope, you will not confirm. Although your colleague on the radio last week said that, in fact, good practice does not make such things public. Even the Chancellor of Justice had to confirm that in the event of lying and illegal conduct, the state official should not be required to remain silent. But what is your position? Tell me what a civil servant should do. Don't tell me that you, or the Prime Minister, do not know that such lies and interference have taken place. Don't tell me, because the facts of the Commission are about to run out. What should a public official do in a situation where he is being taken out of office, also trying to eliminate his colleague and the one who is going out of office has been partisanly lying and perpetuating? Please advise senior public officials on how to ensure honest government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U42	Thank you for the question, although it does not concern the area in which the registered question was put. But since I have about the same question coming up later in this series of questions, I will try to answer. There has already been a lot of talk here today about different issues about the role of a public official. There has been talk about the chancellor, perhaps some other government officials, and as the previous speakers have said, the whole factology that has come to the press, though different channels, maybe this hall, maybe the government, maybe the Prime Minister, is quite a threat. To put it clearly and in principle, the Minister of Public Administration is also responsible for the public service, not at law level, but you must ask the Minister of Justice for this, but for its organisation, monitoring and analysis. That's why I've been asked. I would refrain from any final assessment. Yeah, I know everybody's trying to put one or the other thing out as a fact. However, when the committee of inquiry finally puts these facts, letters, appeals into one line, we will see what reaction someone had, and then we will also be able to assess the role of every person in this process. But in general, to influence someone somewhere to lie, it hasn't been proven. If we can clear up this line, we can evaluate a particular case. As for the chancellor, who was mentioned here, good Jürgen, you have also worked as a minister yourself, and you know that if there are any appointments in the house, I will not say that illegal or denying the rules, it is a good thing that this information is moving. And when it comes to the chancellor, that information could go to the State Chancellery, I don't know, according to my imagination, no one tells you to lie or deny, but that information could move, if such a statement is either to the State Chancellery, to the Prime Minister, in case you can't talk things out with the Minister, and why not the public at some point. But now it was like the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U43	Well, thank you! We have also finished addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U44	Let's go to the next question. It comes from Heljo Pikhof and goes to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. The issue is the situation in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U45	Thank you. I can't get over or around what's going on at the Ministry of Rural Affairs. You have taken a clear stance in the debate on the Ministry of Rural Affairs and condemned Chancellor Lemetti's actions. Right now, listening to this story and your answers, it's like the whole government has taken on a ring defence against honest officials. But my question to you, Minister, is this: what is your opinion: does the chancellor have to be loyal to his country and oaths of office, or to the minister acting on suspicious acts? Do your officials have to shake in the ministry now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U46	Madam Secretary!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U47	Thank you for a very interesting question. In the case of such a theme setting, such a question as this, I believe, there is no doubt now in the Estonian country. Of course, we have constitutional order as the basis for everything; Estonia is the rule of law. All of us in this Chamber have sworn and, in sincere knowledge, we follow it, we are loyal to our legal order as well as to the constitution, and we serve the interests of the Estonian people. That is, of course, what all of our public service representatives are doing. With this wording, no one has any doubts about the answer for a moment. I believe that the same principles are followed by the people of our public service, an apology, in fact, as a result of very many processes in our ministries, many people work simply on the basis of a contract of employment. Let's just say it's people working in the public service in the broadest sense. Of course, they are also different people at all levels. But if we try to generalise, I will say once again that our officials are very good, they are specialists in their field. In the case of disagreements between departments and departments, it is the task of the next level manager to ensure normal work there. I don't know the working life of the Ministry of Rural Affairs in detail. I am more familiar with the Ministry of Education and Research, which is a peculiar ministry because we live in parallel with two cities. Of course, there are often situations where, in connection with development discussions, the Head of the Office, for example, deals with sensitive issues such as those to be rewarded, those to be highlighted, those to be given extra holidays, while others do not. These questions will no longer be discussed in public from a long time ago. They are discussed inside the house and generally do not even reach the Minister; they usually remain at the level of the Deputy Chancellor, the so-called Ministry's leadership. From time to time, only such very complex issues, such as when one or the other party goes to court, will be presented to the Minister. There have been cases. Or maybe my ministry has been dissected in front of the public. After all, it's been discussed and dissected. But such a theme is that it should be silent if there is something wrong with the legal system or with the foundations of the state, no question at all! Of course, if there are law enforcement agencies and the rule of law, they must still be governed by their rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U48	Heljo Pikhofil is an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U49	Thank you. Dear Minister, If we now look at the coalition agreement, then the coalition agreement has a plan to hold a referendum with the local elections on 'What is the family like? '. You're the Minister of Education. As Minister of Education, how do you feel about such a strange undertaking, which will primarily sow intolerance and evil in society?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U50	When we formed the coalition, we were based on the wording of today's family law, which says that marriage is between a man and a woman. At the same time, we also have a valid cohabitation law that regulates living together. As far as I know, at least in the last Riigikogu, where I have been since 2003, the form of marriage has not been attempted to be formulated in any other way. The topics of partnership, cohabitation and legal succession law have been discussed. The topics of children and livelihoods and the topics of partnership have also been reached, but marriage has not been attempted in any other way. What was emphasised in the formation of the coalition was this: should what the family law makes very clear about marriage between a man and a woman be included in the constitution, with reference to the law of the family? Now, whether to make a referendum or other kind of opinion asking there is a very large legal difference. The referendum is a constitutionally one system that requires a very high threshold to be achieved, and the other is another issue of public life. As far as I am concerned, people are asked for advice on this subject in other forms of public life. How it is formulated and how it falls under the question of other public life, these discussions in the Riigikogu will certainly come.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U51	Aivar Sõerd, question of the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U52	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would like to come back to your field, more specifically, and that is what teachers' salaries are for. In my opinion, this information, which the Social Democrats have pointed out, is very important information in order to raise the teachers' minimum wage, which was a priority, which was also taken from education subsidies. We did not hear this information in the Committee on Monetary Affairs; we also do not read this information in the explanatory memorandum to the state budget. And indeed, I have a growing conviction in me, as the Chancellor of Justice has said, that this budget, its explanatory statement and this activity-based, programme-based structure have been done in such a way as to hide important information from the Riigikogu and the public. I ask: why was the information that the missing funds were taken from education grants withheld? If it's in the budget statement, say we didn't know how to read the explanatory statement and it's in the express verb. But if not, please tell me why this information was withheld.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U53	Thank you. First of all, the increase in the minimum rate was sought both from outside the education sector, which was significantly successful, and from within the education sector. Education support is only one part of the cover. Just like we've been discussing here with you before, there were other sources of cover, weren't there? There was also a redeployment, there was a redeployment of the resources released, also within our field, as we know. Some quite important things remained on hold, but, as I said before, certain representative activities, certain major events, were also on hold. Yeah, we looked around in our field pretty seriously. We may ask if such semi-million-dollar conferences are good or bad, but if we had to make an audit, we did. And all these funds were directed to higher education and teachers' salaries. No, we've never hidden it. If we follow the time series, we have been honest with local governments, trade unions and our social partners as well as later here when we came up with our just how to say it with press releases or press representations. I asked about the briefing before, and indeed, my press department, or the Public Relations Department, confirmed that our first press releases made it very clear that it was an estimated 17%. Now about our conversation in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, good Mr Sõerd. Surely you will remember that it was emphasized on several and several occasions that this whole program is really difficult to understand. As a former member of the Riigikogu, I also assure you that this transition has been very difficult and in many ways understandable, and today, as a minister, I have to keep asking financial experts about matters in order to find some significant amount. For example, children's figures were only confirmed on 10 November, then we reviewed them and 17% became 17.1%. Every free euro that did not go up to raise the number of children, we moved to education support. But how are these numbers in there now exactly, whether they're hidden or explained, I realize that here we still have quite a lot of work to do to make it clear. We have never tried to hide anything from our social partners, even less from the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U54	Let's finish the fifth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U55	Let us go to question 6, the author of which is Erkki Keldo, Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, in the role of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U56	Thank you. Mr. Helme! A few weeks ago, after various media publications highlighted the suspicions about Minister Järvik and his clear incompetence, which showed that this person was not fit to be a minister, the opposition asked you specifically that the heads of the EKRE should call back their minister or that Minister Järvik should resign himself. The Prime Minister did not hesitate to take a decision at the first moment and set up a committee to buy time. Now your colleague, Mailis Reps, said last night on ETV's "First Studio," that EKRE leaders just needed extra time to try to explain to their people why EKRE Minister Järvik had to take down his third minister. My question to you: is the words of Minister Reps true and you intend to withdraw Minister Järvik from office, as the opposition has asked of you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U57	Thank you. Surely we will not give in to any opposition ultimatums. There is no win-time, however, it is necessary for the members of the government to find out how much of this dust twisted up in the media is covered with real facts and how much speculation, charges charged with the ceiling, conflicts between persons, or if you want the character mismatches. In order to clarify all of this, we asked the Head of the Chancellor of State, the Chancellor of State, to set up a committee of people who do not belong to any coalition or other party and who would collect all these correspondence, enquiries and all other documents concerning the accusations that the Minister of Rural Affairs has been held in the media and also by the opposition, to put together properly, to put a file, to block by subject matter, to find out, to find out what kind of answer to the accusation, which document. I know that by noon tomorrow, the Secretary of State should hand this work over to the government, or rather to the Prime Minister. And once the Prime Minister has accepted this collection of documents, we can look into it and point the finger at it, which is the truth, which is designed as an accusation, which maybe is also true, where there are misunderstandings, where there are factually justified circumstances. And that's what it's all about. So I don't see anything unnatural here. This hysteria, which has been going on for a month or more around the Minister for Rural Affairs, is simply inappropriate. It's just inappropriate. In order to silence this inappropriate hysteria, we have asked for the facts to be found out in a lucid and impartial manner. That's the state of play.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U58	Erkki Keldo, an additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U59	Thank you. Good minister! You answered for a very long time, but you did not actually answer my question, which was this: are you ready, are you going to withdraw Minister Järvik from office? Especially when you yourself mentioned that there has been a Commission. My question, by the way, was about the deep state. After all, you have called several Estonian officials as an in-depth state. This committee is also made up of officials. If this committee comes to a relatively one and clear conclusion in its documents, the numbering, as you mentioned, that there have been errors and problems there, are you prepared to abandon your third minister because he has been incompetent or, even worse, has made bad decisions that have harmed the country? Please answer this question! Are you ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U60	Well, thank you for throwing such random accusations again that it has harmed the country. How has he harmed the country? What damage has he caused the country? Last time, I think it was even the case that when Mart Järvik was here to answer a statement of distrust, someone even asked: "Are you admitting to the theft of the state? ' Sorry! Have you lost your mind in this hall? What's wrong with you? State theft! What kind of state theft? You love to keep saying that a politician must have a responsibility for what he says. Please also take responsibility for your words in this hall! This is my request. As far as the deep state is concerned, I suggest you look at the definition that exists in the United States. The state of the deep is the influence of politics and public opinion on the boundaries of the hidden laws of the higher official body and special services. It's a definition-like wording in America for this thing. You can agree, you can disagree. We can speculate on whether or not something like this is happening in Estonia. In this case, I must admit to you that I fully trust the Commission drafted by Mr Peterkop, and I believe that there are reliable people there. And if you're asking me if we're gonna call Mart Järvik back, I'm gonna answer you in two words: I'm not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U61	Marko Mihkelson, please! Yes, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U62	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Perhaps you could remind the Minister that the Riigikogu is his employer, not the other way around!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U63	I'm sorry to interfere! My employer is my voter, not Jaak Juske.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U64	Dear friends! This debate comes out of our relatively rigid Question Time Framework, so it can certainly be continued in another form. But now Marko Mihkelson's additional question from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U65	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. You know, what's going on here, for weeks or even months, could in a way parallel what's going on in the United States. There's a long and arduous government removal procedure going on. Well, it won't be another week without a few scandals. And unfortunately, in this scandal, the mess is working very hard against the interests of Estonia, also at the ministerial level of the government. Today, of course, one of the main news reports relates to the subsequent statements by the Minister of the Interior, statements that undermine the national interests of Estonia. As far as the Finnish media interview is concerned, I would remind you that the opposition has been constantly accused of how we allegedly harm Estonia's interests in international media. However, there is no better example than the way one minister does it. Or, on the other hand, let us look at what the President of the Riigikogu, Henn Põlluaas, said yesterday about territorial demands towards Russia, and what has also been widely reflected in today's Russian media, for example. Mart, you know the world very well, I have no doubt. You also know very well what diplomat work is and what the responsibility of a member of a small government like Estonia is in this changing and very complicated world. Please tell me whether the statements you are making, of course, based on your internal political interests and the interests of your electorate, as you have just emphasised, are not detrimental to Estonia's interests and can not be fatal to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U66	Thank you. Indeed, we are seeing a very clear parallel here in Estonia with what is happening in the United States, the liberal forces are completely copying the dirt campaign that has been going on against Donald Trump for several years. So this is where you're really copying it, and in this sense, the parallel is obvious. I would now respond to these accusations about my so-called statements. I have not made any statements, but these are not statements. I have studied the history and culture of the Far East and have been very interested in Zen Buddhistism. You know, there's such a thing as shock therapy. For example, a Zen story tells us how a student comes to visit his master, the master takes two tea cups and starts pouring tea into the student's cup. Tilts and pours until it flows over the side of the cup, over the edge of the table, etc. Eventually, the student will no longer survive and say that the teacher, the master you do, the road is already running to the floor. What does the Zen-master say? He says, "Look, just like this cup pushes over the edge, you're over the edge of stump thinking, prejudices and stupid thoughts that are not in keeping with reality." Look, guys, what I said was that Estonia needs to strengthen plan B, i.e. first and foremost its own defence capacity, internal defence suddenly and quickly, is shock therapy. This shock therapy is not only needed in this room often, I dare say, brain-dead society... [[The exclamations from the floor.]] Yeah, you're welcome or you don't mind. ... but this is what our ally in other countries needs. It is necessary for you to learn to see things in the world differently, not to think that the world is the same as when the Soviet Union collapsed. The world isn't the same anymore. It is not the same as it was when we joined NATO. The world is changing. But I have a feeling it won't make it to too many people in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U67	Does Mr. Juske want to ask you a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U68	I appeal once again to the President of the sitting to make a remark to the Minister that the Minister should maintain his dignity in respect of the honourable Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U69	As I have already said, all ministers must certainly retain their dignity against this Parliament, as must all those who ask and all those who answer in all their positions. So maybe you should also tell the Minister that the vocabulary is a terrible weapon and that it must be used with good reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U70	Let us move on to the next question. Helmen Hunt's question to the Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U71	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Following the administrative-territorial reform of 2017, the services and benefits in the various areas of the merged municipalities will begin to slump. Perhaps grants will converge, services will become better and more accessible, people will also have the opportunity to turn to better specialists, as the best experts in their field have joined the merged municipalities. At the same time, here before we stated the sad state that there are huge differences in funding in this area. The availability of services often depends on the person's place of residence. Maybe 100 meters on one side of the border, it could be quite different than 100 meters on the other side. Maybe it's not always very bad, because self-government is different, but people's needs are very similar, whether they live in Tallinn, Viljandi or small rural areas. They need help with their problems. I remember that before and after the administrative-territorial reform, it was said that the situation would be examined, analysed and then presented. Is this study or analysis on social issues in particular coming or already in place? When can I get to know it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U72	Thank you, good questioner! As I referred to earlier, Helmen, you were the one who, as a minister, somehow tried to set these standards in such a way that they were somehow higher than the minimum level and even across Estonia. Unfortunately, they didn't make it to the law. As far as the status quo is concerned, as you have pointed out, yes, in recent years, much is due to the fact that the resource is more capable municipalities and specialists, so things are improving. But I admit, the level is rather uneven. We have now done not only narrowly monitoring service levels in the social field, but in all areas. Such a project is underway. We would like to develop a tool that allows us to evaluate the services of different areas of the municipality and also compare them by municipality. According to current plans, it will be completed in the first quarter of next year. Then there are indicators that are available for various services, such as social protection services, social services, I do not know the exact details, the document is still being drafted, but there are a few dozen indicators that are statistically explained on the one hand and polls and interviews on the other. There's a service station coming out. I think that this instrument also gives the municipality an opportunity to assess the level of services in one area or another compared to other municipalities, including social services. So we're working on certain subjects. We were talking about long-term care here, but the maintenance burden is also still topical. This includes long-term care, which is divided into the services we provide locally and at home, which care facilities, and how it affects the family members of a person with a need for care, employment, etc. There are many ways to fix it. The Ministry of Social Affairs is doing a good job on this subject and it is clear that solutions will be discussed with local governments. As I said here before in reply to Signe Riisalo, there is one of the most serious proposals: there should be some model of social services developed and funded by piloting by municipalities or universally implemented with the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U73	Helmen Küttt, additional question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U74	Thank you. Thank you for your answer, Minister. Something must have gotten a little messed up when you were referring to me about the last question. You must be confusing me a little with Margus Tsahkna. However, in the Social Welfare Act you received 13 mandatory services and a law that the municipality must comply with. My great happiness, joy and opportunity was to raise child support that remained unchanged for 11 years with the Reform Party in the government. Fortunately, this has risen from now on, although it is not visible in the budget for next year. But the question is whether you, who have also been Minister of Social Affairs, can see that there would be a service or a financial separation for the municipality, regardless of the area where the person lives, which would harmonise either the fee or the quality of service. I am thinking, above all, of the promise of a good coalition partner, the EKRE, to harmonise support for its own carers. As former Minister of Social Affairs, do you think that some things could be similar across Estonia, regardless of where they live? Because we know that informal care providers can pay between EUR 15 and EUR 80, which is rather rare, mostly still more like EUR 15 or EUR 25, and they work at EUR 7/24. If at one point they would say that everyone, we no longer do this job, because indeed, the one who loves it cares best, then the care of the Estonian state would sink into a big, big hole. This is also mentioned, by the way, by ESTA, the organisation that brings together Estonian social workers at its annual conference today and yesterday. Can you tell us what you would do to harmonise the possibilities for obtaining a service or support in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U75	Thank you for your question. I mentioned these service standards, which, however, did not materialise in accordance with this ambitious plan at the time. Yeah, there's been a change. For example, this minimum obligation is now clearer for the municipality as regards the law, and I recognise that at that time these things became part of the law. But a universal model like the one that was meant to be created in the meantime, that we were going to write standards down somewhere in the law, it didn't come. It is always a question of how much we want to prescribe centrally and how much we give in one area or another to decide the municipality. I think this is a relatively nuanced and complex issue when we are talking about informal care, care load, etc. The Ministry has also dealt with this issue quite thoroughly in the negotiations with the municipalities. And I think that these proposals will come in the near future. Is it going in the direction that we have to prescribe some kind of grants to local governments at a minimum level, I can't say. But it is certainly important, for example, to have a relationship with the quality of services and subsidies. If we take people with disabilities, it's very individual. Just by raising some universal support, we will not solve the problems of people with disabilities. There must be services along these lines. This is also something we are currently seriously analysing with the Ministry of Social Affairs, how to ensure that on-site services are better ensured by involving, of course, municipalities. This is one of the following topics: But the care allowance or, let's say, the care theme continues to be topical. We're looking for solutions. Is it possible to improve it here, as one model shows, that the state will come to the aid of the resource in some part of the service or care and secure a certain level in the municipality, or is combined with support and service, all of this needs to be analysed. It certainly needs to be corrected, I have not said that it is sufficient across Estonia, absolutely not. You have to move in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U76	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please ask an additional question about the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would continue this issue of social welfare because you said that the state would come to the aid of resources. Fortunately, I also have the amendment of 2019, this year's State Budget Act, to raise expenditure within the Ministry, on this table. There was this issue in the Chamber, the Chairman of the Monetary Commission was in trouble, he could not answer, he promised to explain, but there is no explanation to this day. The question is very simple. This year's budget amendment raises €3 million in social welfare funds • from special care day- and week-care services, from social rehabilitation services to the development of SKAIS2. It's the famous Social Insurance Agency information program that's buried money forever. But the question is, how can it be that, in the area of social welfare, it says right here: special care day care and weekly care services are left over and then put in the black hole, the development of the SKIAS2. The chairman of the Monetary Commission did not answer the question of how it is possible that the money is over where the money is actually missing. How is it possible that there was this $3 million left over in order to put a skyis2 in a black hole?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U78	Thank you for your question. I cannot explain in detail the line from which the SKAIS was relocated, because these were the proposals of the Ministry of Social Affairs itself for the corresponding changes to the budget there. They've probably been considered at the Ministry of Social Affairs. If it is a question of whether it was done from such a good life and an abundance of resources, I think it is certainly not. As Mailis described, the ministries had to review their budgets very thoroughly. And I owe the answer to whether or not there was a surplus in the funds planned for a particular line this year, for example, and that is why they were raised or not. This has to be asked specifically from the Ministry of Social Affairs why this increase was made. But I'm describing the general process. All ministries worked very hard to prioritise the activities that needed to be taken forward within them and also to find these resources in priority places by redeploying their own budget resources. The thing about the SKAIS is that if we can't develop the SKAIS with which we've had, yes, problems can be read out of them, then all development in the sotsiaal area will remain stale. I don't think it's pouring money into a black hole. This is about ensuring subsequent developments and changes to the law in the form of information technology, digital solutions. If we don't, we won't actually have any of the good changes that we're making in these laws. I can remind you of a minister who flew from the ground because he couldn't insure it, it was from the ranks of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U79	Thank you. Before I give Liina Kersna her word, I'll tell her that somehow I didn't get the answer to Jaak Juske. I would just like to say, first of all, that when the Riigikogu started several decades ago and the Rules of Procedure Act was created, it was a very fundamental question that the Board of the Riigikogu was not a body that would intervene very much in the discussion of the members of the Riigikogu, read morality and participate in the debate. I am deeply sorry about this, and many times I have wanted to speak on so many issues here. So that's one thing. Secondly, I would, of course, like to say that François Mitterrand, the French President, has said about the French Communist leader Georges Marchais that it is his custom to say hello. I would call on everyone to make sure that the manger is not an argument. That is what Mr Švejk said, by the way, that a manger is, of course, not an argument. All the arguments can certainly be put forward without calling them names. I could add that. I am very sorry, and I hope my colleagues will not mind such a passage.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U80	Liina Kersna's question is now for the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Education and Science! On Monday, in the Committee on Culture, you defended the plan to make the Social Education Exam compulsory for all 9th grade graduates so that students who do not have citizenship could apply for citizenship when passing this exam. One of the arguments of this plan, which you pointed out, was that it was agreed in the coalition agreement. In addition, the Coalition has agreed that the relevant amendment should take effect from 1 January 2020. Now I'm looking at the coalition agreement, and here it really does say, 'We'll arrange a state-level exam in social studies equal to the citizenship exam for all those who wish to attend comprehensive school'. Anyone you want? My question is, at what point did this plan become such that a social education test or exam would be mandatory for everyone if the coalition agreement states that this possibility could be available to all those who wish, i.e. as a sample examination.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U82	Thank you for a very good question. We certainly have those formats where we can talk about the entire external evaluation in a more calm and prolonged manner, not in a limited period of three minutes, even in the same Committee on Culture. I guess we've had these discussions, too. Today, however, is already Wednesday and, in the meantime, things have progressed quite quickly. In the meantime, the decision has come that we will not move on with this issue this week and next week. What exactly are the solutions, we'll see about that. The Ministry of Education and Research has, of course, seen two things as a major obstacle to the restructuring of external evaluation: sectoral tests and broader issues of school life or satisfaction. Unfortunately, these issues are still in the air. It is certainly not the solution either if we do sectoral tests, but the laws do not follow. In this sense, I believe that decision-making in the Riigikogu is not a matter of days. However, we sincerely hope that we will be able to find a solution in the Committee on Culture during this academic year, i.e. from now to spring. The subject of this exam and the national test is a little more complicated than going to the details. But the purpose of taking a social education test has never been to give the Ministry of Education and Research the only reason we are talking about citizenship. The coalition agreement simply specified this. When we made the coalition agreement, we were in such a slightly unequal situation that I came with a multiannual ministerial experience, knowing what discussions were in the house. In the light of these changes, where we had to replace the field tests with a certain regularity, it had to be stressed that in the wind of these changes, the right to equalise the citizenship exam with the social education test would not disappear, especially if it happened to come as part of the social part-skills test that had ever been involved in discussions at some point, i.e. that part of the skills should be assessed separately and equalized. But as a good questioner very well knows, these discussions have gotten pretty hot around here in the meantime. In parallel, the law on basic school and upper secondary school is fully rewritten so that it becomes the law on basic school and the law on secondary education together with other topics of secondary education, i.e. vocational and professional education. So I believe that we need to discuss in the Committee on Culture in the near future how much we will change the existing PGS and how much we will pay attention and energy to the creation of new laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U83	Thank you. Liina Kersnalt's additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U84	Thank you very much. I asked about this: you said before that the Coalition has agreed that this amendment will enter into force from 1 January 2020, but today you say that this agreement has changed. Then why did he change? Secondly, if the coalition agreement stated that we should give an opportunity to those students who so wish, the draft states that the social education test is mandatory for everyone. If we now change it on your proposal or subtract the final exams from citizenship issues, then this means that the ninth of those finishing next year will have three compulsory exams: Estonian language, mathematics and social studies. Please explain why the coalition changed its position. Why should all children, so that a very small proportion of them can apply for citizenship, pass the social education test?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U85	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, already on Monday it was stressed that no change we are making is being made during the academic year, so that nothing in any process has changed for the ninth of this year either way or otherwise. When we talk about changes, I say that we have considered the options, whether it is September 1, 2020, September 1, 2021 or 2022. But once again, within this process in the last three or four years there have been very controversial signals from both society and politicians. And the last few weeks aren't any different. There are certain signals to which our good lawyers react with some drafts, and then there will be other proposals that we rephrase. During Monday alone, there were several. If we talk so much about officials, I can thank the Ministry of Education and Research, in this public space, that people in the Department of Foreign Affairs, General Education and Legal Affairs have done a great deal of work. These versions have been re-established today, I think, seven or eight times in response to different signals and inputs. But since, I must say, I, too, as the one responsible for the field, finally asked questions as to whether or not I would apologise for saying so! A relatively important but still detailed process, where it does not actually fit, is necessary in a situation where we might have to dismantle the law in a complex way. The external evaluation is part of the evaluation; it is part of the internal evaluation, external evaluation and re-introduction of the package. We are talking about other aspects here at all. After all, we already received an international assessment on 3 December, where one very good part of PISA is that there will be a lot of other assessments along with it. Why are these other assessments important? Because, as we know, there are also very many other aspects to be assessed. Maybe we can also get signals from there that we should look through and it supports our discussion. I assure you that there is no consensus today on how we are going to proceed. And I am pleased that our discussion in the Committee on Culture will be more interesting once again. But I'll make suggestions in the near future, perhaps. We would also come to the question of whether and to what extent the Committee on Culture is ready to discuss large legislative packages. As we know, we have the Education Code, we have the Code of Pre-school Children's Institutions, we have the Basic School Act and the Secondary Education Act. All these packages are actually in working versions and ready to go to public debate. The Committee on Culture could then be involved in parallel.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U86	Thank you. Heidy Purga, additional question from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U87	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good minister! This amendment is irresponsiblely sent to the Commission. Why? Because it has caused so much confusion and a great deal of understanding in students, parents, teachers, and other people involved in educational work. And the original text of the law has already changed so much in real time that it's pretty difficult to figure it out. But my question comes in addition to Liina Kersna's question and still concerns this part of social education. For what reason do you now distinguish social education from other subjects? If social education is turned into a compulsory exam, should the study content and learning outcomes of the syllabus be re-examined and within what time frame?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U88	Thank you. I think I've already answered that today. These discussions will go on in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U89	So, with this question, we have finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U90	The next question comes from Jaak Juske to Minister of the Interior Mart Helme in the role of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U91	Honourable President! Mr. Minister! I will continue with the subject of Minister Järvik. At the beginning of last week, when the scandal around the Minister for Rural Affairs was so great that there was a risk that the Prime Minister would propose that Minister Järvik be removed from office, you and Martin Helme announced that in this case the government union would end, you would leave the government coal zone. At the same time, tensions were removed by setting up a committee of inquiry. If, now, in the coming days, this committee draws its conclusions and let us assume that, on this basis, the Prime Minister is still proposing to remove the Minister for Rural Affairs from office for the President, will you also stick to your words and leave the government union?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U92	Well, you're a bad politician if you think these things are all going so easy. These things don't work that easy. First of all, we will still wait for this Commission report and see what it says. Perhaps the Commission's report says in black and white and quite clearly that Mart Järvik has done nothing wrong, everything is fine and everything is fine. In that case, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U93	So, Mr. Juske, an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U94	Mr. Minister! If plan B materialises and it is clear in this report that Minister Järvik has broken the law and there is a complete confusion in his administration, and the Prime Minister proposes to replace the minister, will you replace the minister or leave the government union? A clear answer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U95	I see no reason to go along with your speculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U96	Question about the floor. Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! In one of the previous debates, I once marked that I certainly am not a doctor to give a diagnosis to journalists who are quite expressive on some issues, but today I am a little awkward because I am probably one of those brain-dead people who is trying to ask you a question as a minister. My question relates, however, to the fact that you have said quite strongly to the public that political intervention in any position is perfectly acceptable, regardless of whether it is independent institutions and political public pressure can affect credibility. You have proven this by your behaviour in the case of Avari and now in the so-called listerial scandal. Today we had a meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs where we also listened to the entrepreneurs and learned that, as a result of the Minister's behaviour, the sales of fish products by businesses have decreased and that there have been more and more signals and requests from abroad about additional guarantees, etc. Perhaps, in fact, this authority has not been allowed to work peacefully and to achieve a certain result. When a good colleague asked if you were willing to call your minister back or would you agree with the Prime Minister's proposal, if the facts turn out to be this, I would not like to go into legalism and ask this: Minister, have you told your colleague that in this situation, where a very large part of the credibility of food safety is being hit, it would be more reasonable for him to resign? You'd find a new minister who understands the position and responsibility he has.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U98	Thank you. Well, they are once again such coverless incriminatings. I would say that the press scandal over listeria, which you should know as former Minister of Rural Affairs, is considerably more complicated than the word 'listeria', contains very many different strains of different foods, both fruits, vegetables, meats and fish, all of which are not dangerous to health, they are not all killable, they are not all killable under certain conditions. This thing is far more complicated than all this media-enhanced hysteria called listeria. And now, what has the Minister done? The Minister has tried to launch food safety all over the field. But what I dare say is that the conflict has arisen within the ministry, where it has not been desired that all this food safety should be overcome, and that it is only intended to focus on certain companies and certain types of products. There's been a conflict. And when you say that the Minister must not interfere with the administration of his ministry, it is absurd. That he may not intervene in proceedings, that is something else in proceedings, but he is, of course, allowed to check, supervise and demand reports from the agencies under his authority. There have been failures here and they have paralyzed the work of the Minister as well as partly the work of these same agencies. This whole picture is much more complicated than what propaganda has been presented in the press. Therefore, I repeat: let's wait. According to my information, the State Secretary's report should be made public tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U99	Thank you. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U100	Let's go to question 10. Eerik-Niles Kross, please ask the Prime Minister's role as Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U101	Good chairman of the sitting! Good Minister of the Interior! I'm wasting some time. You were talking about shock therapy and its origins in zen-budis. I'm just saying, according to historical observation, that shock therapy actually comes from Italy in the '30s, where Professor Cerlett started using it on people during Mussolini's time. The thought of him was that he watched as the pigs who went to the slaughter were given electric shocks. After that, it turned out that people, too, would forget their memories before this shock therapy. But that's it. I still have to come back to plan B for a second. Today, in Postimees, you corrected this Finnish newspaper and said that you have not said that the Government of the Republic is working on Plan B, which concerns an alternative to NATO. It's true, in the original you really don't say it directly, but you're saying we're working on plan B. Well, in Estonia, the security model and national defence strategy are all set out in strategic documents. As we know very well, the Riigikogu confirms the fundamentals of security policy. It is very clearly in place that Estonia's national defence is based on NATO. We have one NATO model. Jüri Luik has already said that the government has not discussed it; it has been heard from the Riigikogu that no committee has discussed it either. It is clear that the envisaged structures have not worked on Plan B.If you are working on Plan B, I would like to know who are the 'we' who are working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U102	Yeah, well, this thing is a little more complicated than your simplified approach. 'We' is firstly the Ministry of the Interior, which has been active for the last seven months and has now almost developed not only a concept but also an action plan to strengthen internal security. One part of this is the internal defence reserve, which has been mentioned, but also part of it is the strengthening of border guards, the construction of border facilities and the integration of the whole system into so-called broad-based national defence. We're working on it at the Home Office. If you say that I have not raised this issue among the members of the government, yes, I have not spoken about it at the government meeting, but in front of the members of the government, I have said that, in a changing security situation, we also need to think about plan B. Indeed, it is true that the government has not officially dealt with this, but I have raised this issue by talking to several ministers in a smaller circle. So to say that I have not drawn attention to this need is not quite correct either. I've been driving. Now, if you want to debate Zen Buddhism, we can argue. Zen-budism is a very exciting phenomenon, and shock therapy is entirely a term in it, but it is again somewhat more complicated than simply electric shocking pigs. It is a process that includes koan's, or such parables, mondo's, or doubles, and a number of other ways I say, processes and procedures that shock or excite the student beyond the framework of ordinary logic. But I don't think we should talk about this for a very long time in this Chamber, we can talk about it somewhere else. I don't drink beer, but we can talk behind the coffee cup because I'm drinking coffee. These are my answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U103	I think with Zen Buddhism we can get very far here, not the other way around, but we can't get anywhere. Eerik-Niles Kross, additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U104	However, I stick to the view that shock therapy has as little to do with zen Buddhism as EKRE policy has to do with Estonian national interests. But all right. You also said in this Finnish newspaper that Estonia can no longer count on NATO as such, but on some NATO Member States. Was it misunderstood, too? Or if it was not misunderstood, perhaps you would say which countries we cannot rely on then.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U105	Thank you. I think you have experienced enough, both as a diplomat and as a politician, so you are very well aware of the level of defence capabilities in most NATO Member States. This level is very low. This level is also very low in a number of quite large countries. The country on which we can count and on which those countries that have very low defence capabilities in Europe also have a defence will and a political will to implement their defence capabilities are, of course, the United States. To a considerable extent, defence capabilities in France, defence capabilities in Britain to a considerable extent, defence capabilities in some smaller countries, but not all. If you ask about NATO's capabilities to intervene quickly, say, naksti, in 24 hours to protect the Baltic States, then I suggest you talk about me with a much more competent Leo Kunnas, but as much as I have read about the Jamestown Foundation, RAND Corporation and the relatively recent reports of several other analytical centres, NATO still has a lack of command on the day. A force of about seven to ten brigades is scarce enough to effectively resist Russia. These are the things we need to talk about. I repeat: national security is such a matter of responsibility that there is no point in lying to yourself. There's no point in lying to yourself that everything's okay. Yesterday I read comments somewhere on this whole bullshit apology for using that word! just the whole story that immediately began to build up in the media. Someone wrote very correctly in the commentary: "If you keep saying paralyzed, paralyzed, paralyzed, you will not sweeten your mouth! 'The fact that we keep repeating 'NATO, NATO, NATO' does not change the facts that contain the gaps in NATO's ability to protect the Baltic States. And if you say now that I'm damaging our security and that Moscow is applauding it, come on, you know. I think they know much better about me and all of us here, what NATO is, what their ability is, what their will is, etc. Shock therapy here is precisely that: to draw the attention of NATO central institutions and other Member States that we can no longer doze. In a changing international security situation, it is necessary to push the legs out of the belly and to address the problems that prevent NATO from acting effectively. This is not about damaging NATO, it is about giving NATO an electric shock.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U106	Well, now it's Mart Networker's question from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of the Interior, you are currently in the office of Prime Minister, and a moment ago you announced that there is a brain-dead society sitting in the Riigikogu. My question is whether you are ashamed and whether you would like to apologise to the Riigikogu and, among other things, to exempt your good colleague, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, from yet another apology for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U108	I don't know George Ratas would have apologized, and I have nothing to be ashamed of. I'm telling the truth, the truth, and only the truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U109	So, we have exhausted that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U110	Next question. Katri Raik can ask a question to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U111	Good President! Good minister! A few days ago, your party partner Mikhail Kõlvart and I discussed the future of Estonian Russian-language education. Understandably, we all agree that the Estonian language must be understood. Mikhail Kõlvart felt that the best solution would be to give Russian-speaking schools a lot of money. And then I remembered that in 2017, you started a pilot project involving three Tallina schools: the Russian Upper Secondary School in Central City, the Russian Gymnasium in Lasnamäe and the Russian Lyceum in Linnamäe, which will receive EUR 250000 each year if I am not mistaken. They should take an approach other than study in Estonian in order to achieve a higher level of language proficiency than is currently the case at the end of primary school B2 and at the end of upper secondary school C1. Otherwise there would be requirements B1 and B2. I'm sure you're well aware of this program, but I have a specific question. Now the first so-called pilot students are going to graduate from comprehensive school in 2020, but in order for them to be able to use a different study model from 60 to 40 in upper secondary school, to learn more subjects in Russian, the government should make an exception. When do you intend to address this issue to the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U112	Thank you. Unexpected question, I must confess. I don't know if I'd even come to the government table with these calls. I need to be more specific, but as far as I know, no such approaches have come to the Ministry either. Indeed, it will be three years before the pilot programme begins and every year it will also be monitored. With one school where this launch platform was significantly lower than the other two, there has been much more need for support, but we knew that from the beginning. So there's no such big surprises. In the current state of these major strategic decisions at government level, this pilot programme has not been needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U113	Katri Raik can ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U114	Thank you for your answer. Thus, there is a plan for more study, at least 60% to be applied in Estonian. My second question concerns the state gymnasium of Kohtla-Järve, which has been very much discussed, particularly with the knife, fork and outgoing students. As we know, unfortunately, upper secondary school also leaves other upper secondary schools. I understand that both of us would actually respond to you in such a way that the time to evaluate this pilot project or educational test is three years from now when the first students have graduated from the gymnasium, yet 2022 is scheduled to open a state gymnasium in Narva 60 kilometres to the east, even more in a Russian-speaking environment. What lessons have Narva learned from the establishment of Kohtla-Järve Upper Secondary School?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U115	Thank you for a very good question. The first lesson is very clearly that, at the moment, it is quite unpredictable how the Estonian community in Narva, which is considerably smaller, is in this process, say, it has remained, or what their wishes are. As the good questioner knows very well, in the case of Kohtla-Järve there was a problem in individual people from the very beginning. Some felt involved, others did not feel very strongly. I believe this may be the greatest lesson. I also asked for information from the Ministry of Education and Research, which are then bottlenecks. Maybe when you approach Narva, you have to look at this, say, half-length analysis. Today, the Ministry has done much more to find out about the dangers and risks. We have tried to map stakeholders and address issues that may need answers. Before Kohtla-Järve, the experience of state secondary schools was taken into account very clearly. After all, all state gymnasiums have emerged with very large discussions, all without exception. And the closure of every school has been very emotional. Perhaps everyone still remembers Põlva or Võru or Haapsalu, where signatures were collected, it was very, very painful. Everyone will probably remember Võru Kreutzwald's high school alumni, which is very remarkable and strong. Unfortunately, there were many such contradictions. That was the general approach, but perhaps too little attention was paid to the language and, say, to the Estonian-Russian background. So in Narva's case, risk analysis is more taken up by this conflict between communities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U116	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi gets a question from the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U117	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have been fortunate to turn the talk about education in Estonian into a talk about learning Estonian, and you have also obtained the signatures of the coalition. But you've had a position that the Russian school is going to fade anyway. As Minister of Education, please describe this decline a little bit and the fate of the children who will then actually be left out of Estonian society and behind, as they are separate and less educated.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U118	Thank you, good questioner! Now I should ask the source that I do not think that we have anything fading in the Estonian education system, we flourish and we grow in Estonian education. We have very world-class teachers, great students, and we're not going anywhere. On the contrary, we are very proud of our education. Now, have I been a part of this? No, on the contrary, we are actually talking about a matter of principle, and that means how we ensure that everyone is competitive in entering the labour market, entering further learning, and that means that we must ensure that everyone has a very good language skills. The Estonian language as such has also been a very clear source of our integration. But I believe that you are also ready to think along with me in the steps we have taken here in the coming years, that the two teachers in the group, we want to extend it now to schools. Very many schools have given their input and want to go along with it. We are discussing with universities how to offer one option alongside immersion, not by reducing the immersion, but by simply adding one more option. All these steps are so that we can find such a peaceful opportunity for all parents to finally learn that they are getting a very good education, including a very good language.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U119	Thank you. We are done with this question, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U120	Obviously, we have an opportunity to address another issue. This is from Jürgen Lig to Minister of the Interior Mart Helme in charge of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U121	Yes, thank you! Mr. Helme! The Minister of the Interior must be responsible for security and fight violence, create confidence. Tell me what your recommendation is to your female colleague, who is being attacked, threatened and humiliated in public. Is he getting any support and help from you? Of course, we're talking about a fresh case that made it to the police.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U122	Thank you. What kind of attitude can there be? We need to make a statement to the police and ask the police to deal with the matter and find out who the threat is and whether the threat has a real cover. If there's a real cover, these people need to be isolated. If there is no real cover, they must be fined or otherwise punishable by law. Very simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U123	Jürgen Ligi, additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U124	Thank you. Well, you haven't gone so easily, because you made your first statement very quickly and accused the victim of political technology. Yesterday, the Minister of Education also gave it a boost on television. But since you have also taken on foreign policy, I will also ask you about the violence that you have been victims of. You have complained here about how the Finnish press has harmed you, but at the same time, of course, there are tapes of how you develop Plan B and inform Finland through the press that it is actually Finland who will have to protect Estonia instead of NATO in the future. How do you comment on the news that is coming now, where you are essentially attributed a lie to us, but for us your lying is not news, and how do you feel about yourself in the current situation, where you have made an international fool of yourself? The Finnish journalists are now unanimously rejecting your words in rejecting this stupidity. How are you feeling? How do you get out of this, and do you want to continue in your line of work?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U125	Yeah, I don't use Facebook, but my husband does, and I know that Jürgen Ligi's favorite words on Facebook are'stupid'. Most people who don't agree with him there get the title "stupid" immediately. I just got a thank you! I haven't made a fool of myself. If you read a little more carefully, if you think a little bit about what you read there, you will understand that you are again building some sort of science fiction here, namely the science fiction about what Helme has said and how Helme has already destroyed the Estonian state. I have not destroyed the Estonian state, in the truth and in the spirit I serve it, and in the truth and spirit I will clean up after the Reform Party that has been in power for 17 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U126	Riina Sikkut, please ask an additional question from the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U127	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! When I asked Martin Helme on Monday, I said that I like people of principle. But the principle is that they must be applied universally, not in a situation where they are suitable for someone. In answering Jaak Juske's question, you said that you do not want to speculate on the results of the work of the Taimar Peterkop Commission and on what this means for Minister Järvik. However, in the Finnish media, you will very fantasyly speculate about Estonian defence policy. Defence policy is known to be made by the Minister of Defence, and if we have a plan B, it could be up to him to decide when, who and how to communicate it to. Why are you not prepared to speculate in one situation, but in another, in a more risky situation, you simply go along with the possibility of speculation? Do you think you're lost? Were you entitled to present such speculations in foreign journalism or did it damage Estonia's reputation? I would add that, despite the fact that I am in no way a specialist in defence policy, I have understood that our plan A is this broad-spread defence If you don't come from it, what's your speculation? Do you think it's right for you to present it, or should it come from the Secretary of Defense?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U128	Thank you. First of all, you've been in the government, but you probably haven't understood the government's order of business. Neither the Minister of Defence nor the Ministry of Defence are designing the defence policy, but the government is doing it, the Riigikogu commission is doing it, so is the grand hall of the Riigikogu, and so is our Foreign Policy Institute and the Centre for Defence Studies and other institutions. It is a collective creation that flows into one bed where its conclusions are drawn. At the moment, I have talked about this, and I have repeated it in this Chamber today, too, that the security situation is changing. That's when we scream 'Callelujah, NATO, NATO, NATO! ', does not change the situation that NATO is currently in conflict and that we need to adequately respond to it in the country, to contribute more to its primary defence capabilities, to contribute more to broad-based national defence. Let me remind you of one little thing. A few weeks ago, we had a storm in South Estonia. And what happened? Tens of thousands of people spent days without electricity. But what happens if we're in a war situation where a cyber attack takes electricity and communications out of the entire country? So, what, NATO's gonna come to the rescue? What happens when we have a riot? So is NATO going to come to the rescue? No, you're not. Then we must have our own internal defence reserve, our own internal security forces that can handle these things. These are real and practical things. I'm not a scandalist, I'm telling the truth, I'm pointing to things and problems without any false shame. If you think it's wrong, I'll say it's wrong to have your eye flaps. I am trying to eradicate it from this hall, among other things, with my frankness and my real policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U129	Thank you to the ministers. It's exactly two o'clock, so I'm really sorry to say this, but Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U130	Ladies and gentlemen, We go to the 9th working week session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, all good colleagues have the opportunity to submit drafts and questions. Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U131	Good manager! On behalf of the 18 members of the Reform Party, I will refer an inquiry to the Prime Minister, by whom we mean Jüri Rata. The question is about Estonia's future policy; it is about the fact that the policy that thinks about Estonia's future must be based on the fact that the demographic and environmental changes that shape our present century are like laws of nature, which means that their failures will simply be fooled or put the living conditions of the next generations under attack. Halting climate change and reducing carbon pollution is one of the biggest challenges of the next decade, both internationally and for each country itself. Estonia's choice is to be either a direction indicator or a tail jogger in this field. It has to be said that the government has recently been making very controversial messages about whether or not Estonia has set its goal of becoming carbon neutral, climate neutral by 2050. This week, we heard from the Committee on European Union Affairs that such an objective has not been set. However, it is clear that achieving climate neutrality requires very clear economic and energy policy choices to be made already. In this respect, we have nine questions for the Prime Minister: what are the main positions of the government, what are the timetables with specific milestones and the need for financing in the transition to a climate-neutral economy by 2050, what investments in the new production assets of Eesti Energia the government and the state want, whether the government is considering the state's participation in establishing a pre-refinery plant for oil shale oil, to what extent it is expected to do so, but also what future energy solutions the government considers to be forward-looking for Estonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U132	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu initiates a draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act. Together with the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Committee on the Environment has discussed the issue of dealing with water cultivation in Estonia. With this draft, we are trying to correct the law so much that aquaculture in Estonia is competitive compared to our neighbouring countries. So we will discuss this issue and support Estonian entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U134	Thank you! On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Now for presence control. 86 members are present and 15 members of the Riigikogu are absent. Now I need to clarify a little bit about our agenda today. At the debate on today's last item, the draft law on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws at first reading, 94 will be presented by Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U135	Now, honourable Riigikogu, we are going to discuss the items on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is a draft which we did not reach yesterday due to the end of the sitting. Thus, the second reading of the draft Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law amending other laws (transposition of the European Union Directive on the protection of the financial interests and the Directive on the procedural rights of minors). I would like to ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to present the floor here. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U136	Good afternoon. I'm in front of you with a bill of 50. This is a transposition of the directive and the name of the law is the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act amending other laws. I learned at the committee meeting that no proposals were received from stakeholders, but one proposal was received from the Ministry of Justice. This was because the Ministry of Justice wanted to clarify the concept of a public procurement contract, and the Commission proposed to take this into account. In addition, the Commission decided to propose the inclusion of this draft on the agenda yesterday (but we did not have time to discuss it yesterday), to propose the termination of the second reading, to appoint me rapporteur and to propose that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed on 4 December. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U137	Now all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to submit up to two oral questions to the rapporteur for one minute. There are no questions for the rapporteur. Would you like to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. We are going to the examination of amendments, or rather one amendment. Amendment 1 was tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. No vote, everyone agrees. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 50. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U138	Today's second item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Law on Disease Control, the State Tax Act, the Feed Act, the Food Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote of 90 on the draft. We will conduct the 90 final votes on the draft. Please take a position... [[A voice from the hall.]] Negotiation? Yes, there is some time for the position, because there will be a slogan and everyone will have the opportunity to speak on the draft. Do the political groups or members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? No, it's not. Then we'll make a hall call. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Animal Disease Control, the State Tax Act, the Feed Act, the Food Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act 90, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U139	The third item is the third reading of the Act on Supplementation to § 61 of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the groups have a wish to speak? Yeah, it is. I'd like to ask for Marika Tuus-Laul to be the first to negotiate. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we could take a little look back on such an important subject. We recall that on November 20, 1990, almost 30 years ago, Eesti Päevaleht announced the coming of the new pension law, which was to be discussed immediately in the Chamber of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia, but at that time, the law on living allowances was pushed, rather, by Mart Laar. A few years later, pensioners were able to fill up their 260-kroon cripples, and the crowds came to Toompea. The pique lasted for days, and the Minister of Social Affairs was physically attacked. The Prime Minister also took the floor by telling the people, the pensioners, that it is good to see you here, come every day. I was on the field myself as an ETV journalist with a microphone and a camera. Of course, nothing happened, the Prime Minister's ears remained closed to the protesters' voices. The poor allowance law remained in force for many years. At the turn of the century, when the new funded pension law had been forged for a long time, the situation reached absurdity. The allowance increased by only 1 kroons in 2000. The then Laar Economic Advisor and today the President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid, saw nothing crazy about the situation and said something about a zero sum game. The following year, the allowance rose to only 12 kroons, and the government suggested that you see that we did not lower pensions. The biggest pension increase in the ages was when we formed the double government of the Central Party and the Reform Party in April 2005. We went to government on the condition that an extraordinary pension increase should be made, that was our basic requirement. Thus, under the leadership of Jaak Aab, the pension rose by nearly 40% in two years, even more. If such a great increase had not been made at that time, there would have been nothing to index for years. Without this increase, the pension would now be around EUR 100 less. But then the election came, and the Reform Party had a desire to have the votes of the pensioners. As you know, expensive TV commercials have always been believed in by people. We remember when Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, sitting on the gold throne, announced a double pension and a double pension. Ansip said at the time that every pensioner knows very well how much his pension is now, but multiply it by two and you will find out what your pension is in four years' time. What really happened? In the following year, pensions had to rise by 15%, but they did not. Then the pensions were frozen at all, the pensions never increased. In the coming years, too, this increase was very small, much lower than the index numbers, even though the economy was already growing. And again it was said to be satisfied, in difficult years, you see, we didn't lower pensions. Now we are being criticised for raising the average old-age pension by EUR 45. But 45 euros more retirement, I think, is still a very, very big deal. The elderly must be most grateful. Yes, it is not 100 euros, as we promised to increase with indexation, but it is almost half of it. And we're gonna make a promise anyway, and we're gonna raise it like we promised, not like the Reform Party that you promised, but froze. The EUR 45 pension increase is the largest pension increase in the last 12 years. If anyone wants to say that Estonian pensions are like a red lantern in Europe, be nice and look in the mirror: why have you not done it yourself? Last time, pensions were exceptionally raised 12 to 13 years ago, and this was during our government. In any case, today's pension increase is a very, very strong basis for future pension increases, on which pensions will be further increased. The higher base is already down. But that is not the only progress. The repair of pension pillars is also underway, and the second pillar pension is made optional. If we analyse it, we will see that all the money, or 6%, that has gone into the second pillar for years, is paid for indirectly by the person himself, first 2% on each payday and then 4% of his so-called first pillar, social money, that money that would otherwise go to today's pensioners. By the last amount, people's pensions have been smaller for years. It is at the expense of pensioners today that years have been covered by the funded pension reform hole. Today, we have to admit that with the second pillar, people have actually had no time to gather anything. If, at the moment, the government is accused of using money released from the second pillar for the extraordinary rise in pensions, and that is why the pillar is being broken down, I would remind you that it is money stolen from today's pensioners. Let's give it back to those pensioners even a little bit. I don't think his grandson wants his future pension to be collected at the expense of his grandmother's retirement today. But right now, we're gonna do the biggest retirement in 12 years together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U141	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Reform Party Group Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U142	President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party does not ask to vote against the Act supplementing § 61 of the State Pension Insurance Act, but the Reform Party asks to be responsible. Looking at the history of what a good colleague did just a moment ago, we have no reason to be proud today. 38 euros, which is the result of the indexation of pension increases, are the result of the right decisions in the past and are not the decisions of a central party government. An old-age pension will receive an additional 7 euros to the basic part of today's pension by the decision that will be made here in the Riigikogu. Every rise is necessary. While the draft preparer has pointed out in the explanatory memorandum that the relative poverty rate of older people, i.e. 65 years old and older, was 41.2% in Estonia in 2017, the European Union average was 15% at the same time. We are indeed the first in Europe, but we do not want to be the first in this way. Looking at the change in the relative poverty rate in Estonia up to 64 years of age, indeed, it has fallen, from 19.4% to 16.7% for people of working age compared to 2012. However, it has risen from 27% to 47% in the same period in the case of 65-year-olds and older people; relative poverty has almost doubled. The good news, though, is that younger ones have seen an increase in wages and a slight improvement in their survival. Regrettably, last week, hopefully jokingly, Minister of Finance Maris Lauri answered the question about relative poverty of older people in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, that it is not difficult with relative poverty, simply not to let the average salary rise. I hope it was a joke, though extremely inappropriate. In comparison with the countries of the European Union, Estonia's total social protection expenditure (16.6% of GDP) as well as the expenditure on old-age pensions (4.9%) is in the penultimate position, in front of Ireland, but after all the other countries of the European Union. However, according to the 2018 pension adequacy report, pensions are a key source of income for older people in order to alleviate poverty. The state is responsible for ensuring that everyone has a decent life. It is sadder, however, that under the current income tax regime, 7 euros, which is the additional income granted by the current government to pensioners, will have to be paid income tax 5,6 euros, as the average old-age pension now exceeds 28 euros of tax-free income. After raising the basic part of the pension by 7 euros, the average old-age pension beneficiary wins 1 euro and 40 cents per month. It is true that this applies to an average old-age pension. But the draft we are going to vote on will also bring those older people who will be obliged to pay income tax. Thus, 184000 pensioners, or 55% of pensioners, would have to pay income tax in 2020. However, if you add those pensioners who are supposed to work, there will be 204700, or 61% of pensioners, who will pay income tax next year. By comparison, that... Extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U143	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U144	... In 2019, pensioners who pay income tax will be halved by 31.5%. In particular, pensioners who work and are more active are less likely to win money. Therefore they will also be punished, entrepreneurialism will be punished. Finally, I would remind you that until the current tax-free minimum in 2016, the average old-age pension was exempt from income tax, which was actually taxed from 2018. The discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs also revealed that if the average pension exemption were restored, this would mean a little over EUR 100 million for the country. However, this draft will have an impact on next year's budget of 20.8 million, which will have a real impact on people from 1 April. It is a terrible desire to ask: where is the remaining 80 million that we have taken away from older people and where will this additional resource be needed in the coming years to cover not only the increase in pensions but also the costs of long-term care, because 85% of the cost of general care is paid by a person and almost 80% of the total cost is borne by a person with his or her family members. We will soon be discussing the voluntaryisation of the second pillar of pensions in this Chamber, which has been criticised by all experts because of the loss of older incomes in the future. We are hearing more and more thoughts on taxation, including on the possible introduction of supplementary care insurance. How, though, does all of this help the elderly today, and how does the government intend to guarantee the constitutional right of everyone to the aid of the state in the event of old age and deprivation? Dear Members of the Riigikogu, I call on you to be accountable to the elderly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U145	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Indrek Saar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U146	Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, we must come to what I said at first reading of the draft from this chair. We must come back to this once again, having heard the speech of Mrs Tuus-Laul, representative of the Centre Party, who mainly concentrated on the fact that this is the biggest pension increase of 12 years. Let's still look at these numbers. 38 euros, or the vast majority of this increase, is due to the fact that we have a system for indexing pensions. Unfortunately, this system has not been created by the Centre Party, and the role of the EKRE in creating it is essentially non-existent, although there has been a role for the Fatherland and some other parties, including the Social Democrats, but in fact, for the fact that this pension increase is at least so great, we must thank the good working people and entrepreneurs of Estonia who have contributed to economic growth. That's where the slope comes from. What the government is adding to it is EUR 7, which is about five and a half times less than the indexing figure and, unfortunately, about nine times less than what the Prime Minister has promised all pensioners today. In order to fulfil this promise, the pension should have been increased by 62 euros, which is almost nine times more than what is being done today. But let us specifically recall what was promised to voters. The Centre Party promised in its election programme and in many beautiful adverts, where people may have remembered, in particular, the pension promise: 'We will raise the average old-age pension in 2020 exceptionally, with an indexation of EUR 100. " There will be seven euros left. 'Only the increase in extraordinary pensions will ensure an average old-age pension of EUR 700 by 2023', this step does not appear to be the case anywhere. They also promised: 'We keep the average old-age pension exempt from income tax. We apply an additional income tax exemption of EUR 250 to pensioners, thereby increasing the tax-free income of old-age pensioners to EUR 750 per month. ' Instead, Jüri Ratas goes down in history as the first prime minister in whose time the average pension became taxable. However, the Centre Party received, I think, in many respects, almost 130,000 votes thanks to this promise in the elections, after all, their mandate should be strong enough to deliver on their promises. EKRE could not fall under the Centre Party and promised in his election programme that they would increase pensions and value the elderly, he promised that the average pension would double over the next four years. This is where Marika Tuus-Laul was talking about someone who had promised to double the pension. The EKRE has also promised this. This means that around EUR 800, their electoral programme said. EKRE received almost 100,000 support for this in the elections. And then the little coalition of the Fatherland, who promised something completely different. In fact, he promised smaller pensions in the future, or cleverly formulated, they promised to make the second pillar optional, i.e. to lose the funded pension, and they also received the support of a good 64000 voters in the elections. The reality is that there will be no exceptional pension increase in substance and that pensions will decrease in the future. While we see that retirement rise... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U147	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U148	... only EUR 7 was found exceptional, of which most income tax eats in the case of an average pension, has been set up at turbo-speed to implement the plan of the Fatherland to dismantle the funded pension, despite the fact that it has been strongly criticised and criticised by economists, international economic experts and social scientists. However, the coalition is consistently chopping: the government cannot withdraw from this pension reform because they have the mandate of the people. I see it a little differently. The coalition has received a mandate for a robust extraordinary pension increase. To this end, they were given a mandate of almost 230,000 people, not a reduction in pensions, for which the mandate was issued by 64000 people, and this mandate was also received with half-fraud. To conclude, however, this bill does not bring pensioners out of the poverty trap and does not help them to pay, for example, the costs of nursing homes. This clearly shows that the government does not value the livelihood of the elderly. The commitment of government departments to increase pensions exceptionally significantly has proved to be a fraud. Instead, they are working systematically to reduce pensions in the future. In any case, the Social Democrats oppose the plan to demolish the second pillar with all their advice and force. We believe that the people of Estonia have a constitutional right to dignified ageing, including decent retirement. We believe that the people of Estonia deserve the government to keep their word that politicians keep their word. Unfortunately, today's government will not do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U149	Thank you. We have heard the speeches of the representatives of the political groups. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 79. I shall put to the final vote a draft Act 79 supplementing § 61 of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U150	Today's item No 4 is the second reading of the Bill 59 on Amendment of the Defence Forces Service Act and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present Urmas Espenberg, member of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U151	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I bring before you for a second reading a draft law amending the Defence Service Act and other laws. As the issue concerns pensions, specifically special pensions, the commission is the Committee on Social Affairs and, as its representative, I will report on this presentation. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 9 September 2019. The aim of the draft is to reduce red tape and facilitate the calculation of special pensions. Although quite a number of laws need to be amended, this is mainly done in a single sentence, so that this law does not bring with it major changes of substance. The amendment does not affect the substance of any special pension or professional capacity benefit for the prosecutor and therefore does not affect the person who receives or will receive the special pension or the professional capacity benefit for the prosecutor. The first reading took place on 22 October. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5 November, but no amendments were tabled by the deadline. The Social Affairs Committee also sent the draft for opinion to the Supreme Court, which did not find any shortcomings in this draft. After the completion of the first reading, the Committee on Social Affairs met twice to discuss the draft: 11 November and 18 November. There was no need for a substantive debate at these meetings, as no amendments were tabled either by the political groups or by members of the Commission. At its meeting on 11 November, the Commission decided to submit a draft for second reading and to include it on the Riigikogu agenda on 20 November, i.e. today. The Commission also proposed to conclude the second reading of the draft. I was appointed rapporteur. At its meeting on 18 November, the procedural documents for the second reading of the draft were approved. At the same meeting, the Commission decided that, should the second reading of the draft stop, the Commission would ask for it to be sent to the third reading and included on the Riigikogu agenda on 4 December and also to hold a final vote. The adoption of the bill as a law requires the votes of 51 members of the Riigikogu, as this law also concerns the Constitution. The law relates to the state budget for 2020, its strategy and its financing plan, including the process of drafting the state budget and the legislation governing it. All the decisions adopted by the Commission were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U152	Thank you. Now everyone has the opportunity to ask up to two oral questions to the rapporteur. Aivar Kokk has submitted a request for questioning. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U153	Good manager! Good waitress, first of all, thank you for a very meaningful presentation. Since you said at the end that it was also related to the state budget, can you tell me exactly what cost or income it would generate in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U154	Although this was not discussed in the Commission, I can say so much that it does not entail any additional costs, simply when the special pension was calculated in the past by a specific ministry, such as the Ministry of Defence or the Ministry of Justice, then it now moves directly into the state budget, but the disbursement is still carried out through the Social Insurance Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U155	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you! Is there a desire to negotiate? That's not what you want. As the representative of the lead committee said, no amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 59. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U156	Let's go to the fifth item on today's agenda. The second reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please report here. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U157	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 12 November 2019. Marek Uusküla, Head of Customs and Excise Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Aet Külasalu, Chief Specialist, were also invited to the meeting. The draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 76 transposes amendments to the VAT Directive which harmonise the tax treatment of demand-side stocks and chain transactions at European Union level. No amendments were submitted to the Riigikogu by the deadline. The Commission addressed seven stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft. The Estonian Taxpayers' Association gave its feedback and the Commission received a letter from Deoro Trade OÜ. The Commission decided unanimously to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 20 November and to propose that the second reading be closed. When the second reading is completed, the Commission shall propose that the third reading be carried out on 4 December inclusive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U158	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 76. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U159	Today's sixth item is the second reading of the draft Act 55 amending the General Part of the Environmental Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws. The rapporteur is Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 September. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 9 October. The deadline for submitting amendments on 23 October was one amendment received from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. In addition, 19 other amendments were tabled by the Commission. The Commission prepared a second reading on 4, 12 and 18 November. Interest groups also participated in the meeting on 4 November with their proposals: Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities, Environmental Law Centre, Estonian Association of Ring Economy Enterprises, Harjumaa Association of Municipalities, Tallinn Environmental and Commercial Board and the Ministry of the Environment, as well as representatives of Jõelähtme, Harku and Saku rural municipalities. On 12 and 18 November, the amendments tabled were examined and procedural decisions were taken. Amendments 9, 10 and 14 are substantive. Amendment 9 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which we took into account in substance. The exact wording of the amendment is set out in Amendments 10 and 14. The amendments leave the municipality the same time to decide on geological surveys as they do today. So if the draft was initially intended to shorten this period to 30 days, then now the two-month response period will remain in force. That was also the wish of the municipalities. Amendments 11, 15 and 17 aim to change the role of the mineral resource commission in the ground permit procedure. In the future, not all applications for authorisation and draft arrangements and reorganisation projects will be submitted to the Mineral Resources Commission for an opinion, as there is no need for such practice. Amendment 3 complements Section 8 of Chapter 6 of the Waste Act with new sections 983 and 984 on granting and refusing to grant environmental permits for the storage of waste. The amendment provides for the obligation for environmental authorisation holders who store waste to submit, when applying for a permit, together with an application for a guarantee or financial guarantee from a credit or financial institution or insurance undertaking established in the European Economic Area, or a financial guarantee to cover the costs of organising and managing the waste to be stored. The inclusion of a guarantee will eliminate one option not to organise waste management and ensure the sustainable and appropriate use of the natural environment in the public interest. This is what the Estonian Association of Circular Economy Enterprises wanted. Amendments 4 to 6 complement the list of activities with a significant environmental impact as set out in subsection 6 (1) of the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act with activities such as artificial groundwater upgrading when groundwater is formed at least 10 million cubic metres per year. This addition is necessary for the full transposition of the European Union Directive. The fifth amendment provides for an additional restriction on the construction or reconstruction of hydroelectric power plants, dams, dams or reservoirs, as a result of which the new or additional retention of water is more than 10 million cubic metres. The sixth amendment amends point 30 of the abovementioned list and replaces the word 'over' with 'at least'. These three amendments are necessary for the full transposition of the Directive. The other amendments were technical or technical. The commission decided to bring the draft to second reading today. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission has a proposal to send the draft for the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 4 December. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U161	Thank you. Any questions for the esteemed waitress? No, it's not. In that case, I will open the way for negotiations. There's no call. The rapporteur took a thorough look at all the amendments, and the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft 55. Second reading is complete. [[A voice from the hall.]] However, let us look at these amendments because it may happen that someone has a wish for a vote. Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, proposed by the Committee on the lead committee, is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 is proposed by the Committee on the Environment, and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 3 is also from the Committee on the Environment, and the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 4 is proposed by the Committee on the Environment, and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 5 is tabled by the Committee on the Environment, and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 6 is proposed by the Committee on the Environment, and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 7 is also from the Committee on the Environment, and the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 8 is tabled by the Committee on the Environment, and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. Amendment 9 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the decision of the commission is to consider the substance. Amendment 10 is from the Committee on the Environment; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on the Environment, and the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 12 is from the Committee on the Environment; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on the Environment; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 14 is from the Committee on the Environment; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 15 is from the Committee on the Environment; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 16 is from the Committee on the Environment; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 17 is from the Committee on the Environment; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 18 is from the Committee on the Environment; the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 19 is from the Committee on the Environment; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. Amendment 20 is from the Committee on the Environment; the proposal of the commission is to be fully taken into account. The amendments have therefore been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 55. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U162	We come to agenda item 7 today. Second reading of the draft law amending the consular law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Please present here the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Eesmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U163	The first reading of the draft was completed on 9 October. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for submitting amendments, 23 October by the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. The Committee on Foreign Affairs continued the debate on the draft on 11 November. On a proposal from the initiator, the commission made one amendment to the draft, specifying in the consular law the provision on training for the consular officer and the consular secretary. We also had the Director General of the Consular Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Tiina Nirk, who gave explanations and defended this amendment. Some linguistic and regulatory improvements have been made to the draft text on the basis of a proposal from the language editor. The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously took the following procedural decisions on the draft: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 20 November for the second reading of 44 and to propose that the second reading of the draft be closed; if the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the plenary session on 3 December for the third reading and to hold the final vote on the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U164	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. There is now an opportunity to make a speech in the negotiations. The political groups and members of the Riigikogu have no requests to speak. An amendment to the draft was tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was also the lead committee, and their proposal is to take full account of the proposal. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 44. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U165	Now today's last item, No 8, the first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (financial penalties arising from European Union law). I'd like the Minister of Justice, Raivo Aegis, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U166	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft law amending the Penal Code prepared at the Ministry of Justice and related amendments to other laws. The draft amends the Penal Code in such a way as to make it possible to impose significantly higher financial penalties for certain misdemeanours and thereby to comply with the requirements of European Union law. These changes were planned already during the previous Riigikogu and then carried the analogous draft number 586. Due to the end of the previous Riigikogu, this bill fell out of the procedure. A number of instruments have been adopted in the European Union which require effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties for infringements committed in certain areas. These legislation also prescribes the levels of fines that must be applicable for infringements, which amount to millions. Such obligations are most numerous in the law of the financial markets. This is also understandable because the fines imposed by Estonian law for misdemeanours are up to 1200 euros for natural persons and up to 400000 euros for legal persons, and these fines are clearly not capable of having a deterrent effect on financial companies, whose turnover is sometimes in the millions. It must also be taken into account that the levels of fines must be comparable between Member States. At the same time, financial markets are not the only area where European Union law requires higher fines to be imposed. As of May 2018, the GDPR will be implemented in the field of data protection, which provides for a maximum financial penalty of EUR 20 million for infringements. In European Union law, these fines are called administrative fines, but since 2002 Estonian law no longer has an administrative sanction institution. At the time, a judicial decision was made that punishment of persons was part of penal law and not of administrative law. It is also important that, regardless of the name given to the fine, it is a penalty and that the person must be guaranteed the fundamental rights inherent in the criminal proceedings, such as the right not to incriminate himself, the prohibition of double punishment, etc. The draft will stick to the model of the offence procedure and fines under European Union law will be treated as misdemeanour penalties. The draft provides that, in justified cases, a fine of up to EUR 20 million or a fine may be imposed for a misdemeanour, the maximum amount of which depends on the proceeds of the misdemeanour. In the case of legal persons, the maximum amount of the fine may also depend on turnover. The maximum fines are set in such a way as to enable them to comply with the requirements of Union law. The draft law raises the fines for only two misdemeanours laid down in the Penal Code to the level of EU law requirements. These are misuse of inside information and market manipulation. There will be no automatic increase in fines for any misdemeanour, and the increase of the financial penalty ceilings for other misdemeanours will have to be decided by a separate draft. In addition, the draft raises the maximum financial penalty for a criminal offence to a legal person from EUR 16 million to EUR 40 million and provides that the financial penalty calculated on the basis of the turnover of a legal person may also exceed that fixed ceiling. The aim of the amendment is to ensure that crimes are punishable by more severe penalties for legal persons than for misdemeanours. It is also foreseen that in the future only the liability of a legal person may be provided for in respect of some of the offences. The current system provides for the liability of both natural and legal persons for the offences. At the same time, there are a number of sector specific requirements, the obligation to comply with which is imposed solely on legal persons. It is precisely in such cases that it is not always necessary to provide for the responsibility of a natural person alongside a legal person. The amendment shall not affect the determination of the liability of the legal person. This is not a legal person's non-causal liability and the act or omission of a particular natural person must continue to be identified and it must be assessed whether it can be attributed to a legal person. However, the difference is that a natural person is no longer held accountable. In view of the complexity of the procedure for the application of higher fines and of the fact that, when contesting a fine decision of an out-of-court tribunal, the court is fully considering a misdemeanour from the outset, the draft provides that the expiry of the misdemeanour is to be interrupted when an appeal is brought before the court. This ensures a longer limitation period and the possibility of reaching a decision on the substance of the case. Finally, the draft also extends the deadline for voluntary payment of financial penalties and clarifies more clearly the person's right to apply for payment of financial penalties in instalments. This amendment concerns not only financial penalties with an increased ceiling, but also 'normal' financial penalties. The current law requires a penalty to be paid within 15 days, and the same time limit is also for contesting the fine. Figuratively speaking, on the last day you have to decide whether to pay the fine or to lodge a complaint. However, if the money is not available for payment of the fine, it will be passed on to the bailiff and the person will also have to pay the costs of the enforcement proceedings. If the fine still fails to be paid, the court shall replace it with seizure or community service. The bill extends the period of voluntary payment of the fine to 45 days (to date it was 15 days) and therefore assumes that at least one day of pay will remain within the deadline for the payment of the fine. In addition, the right of the person subject to the proceedings to apply for payment of a fine in instalments is clearly laid down, according to which in certain cases payment of a higher fine can be divided into one year. The date of entry into force of the draft law is scheduled for 1 July 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U167	Thank you. It is possible for each of the rapporteurs to ask up to two questions of one minute. First please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U168	Good manager! Good minister! If now you can pay your fine not within 15 days, but within 45 days, it's, I think, a lot of people miss. However, this, for example, because the legal person has a fine of 40 million, concerns the financial and data protection sectors in particular. Give a rural example where we could write out a $40 million fine. For what?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U169	Thank you for your question. This is certainly very difficult to do in Estonia's practice, as the Estonian financial markets are far from reaching the volume of transactions such as those in the European Union in London or in other financial centres. The aim of the draft is to bring our fine rates into line with those required by the European Union. These are the so-called ceiling within which a fine can be imposed. This is certainly not an obligation; these are maximum rates. Indeed, I believe that there are often no cases of this kind in Estonia if there is a need to impose fines at this rate. However, for the time being, in the financial sector, where we have a legal person's fine of 400000, these fines may not have the effect of quite penalising a particular financial institution. So moving from there is certainly not a bad thing; it will certainly have a preventive and dissuasive effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U170	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I took out an inquiry verbatim from 2017. Minister of Finance Sven Sester was then in office. I asked here why in Estonia the penal policy for not implementing preventive measures to combat money laundering is more lenient than ever. We were talking about these fines imposed on commercial banks. Before that threshold of EUR 400000, a ceiling of EUR 32000 existed. Do you see the link between this deterrent, the leniency of fines, the extensive money laundering that has taken place in Estonia and the small fines?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U172	Thank you for your question. I believe, however, that there may be a situation at times, I admit, that there may be a situation where the moment of calculation arises, looking at which is more profitable. Whether it is more profitable to risk and gain high profits thanks to the risk taken, it will result in some kind of non-compliance or total non-compliance, whether it is a notification obligation or, for example, a due diligence obligation on the part of a financial institution, a bank, which has been discussed very much in the light of recent money laundering cases. If caught, a fine which is far less than the profit for breaching or ignoring it shall be paid. I believe that this change will certainly have an impact. Once again, whether these fines amount to 20 million and 40 million border countries is one question, but the second question is still that, if the maximum fine is less than half a million, this may be of little effect in the case of certain infringements.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U173	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U174	Good manager! Good minister! There are many questions here, such as the Bar Association and the Supreme Court have called into question the legal nature of this construction. But the specific question I have is this. The great giant river of money has flowed through Estonia, but you said that we have no scale. Who else has the scale of money laundering and money flow as large as Estonia? Could this 40 million fine, however, be imposed (any way we call it) in administrative or quasi-criminal matters, but would it also reach the Estonian budget, whether or not half of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U175	Thank you for your question. As far as ongoing criminal proceedings are concerned, at least I do not have a very clear overview today of how much of all the cash flows that have passed through Estonia through bank transfers are criminal revenue. It certainly is, but criminal proceedings are ongoing, and if this becomes clear with proceedings, then it also depends on what fine rates can be applied in the future. Whether and to what extent they can be applied in existing cases, this is now a question, precisely as these new rates can be applied 'ex-post'. But yes, in similar cases, when profits can reach huge amounts, it is also appropriate to impose fines of tens of millions, whatever it is, a measure to compensate for the State's reputational damage or something else, but certainly one side is that the fine must be effective in order to prevent subsequent infringements, so that the financial institutions in future operate in a very correct and specific manner in accordance with the requirements imposed on them. It is still the point of this punishment, not so much as to make a profit for the state, but it is, above all, to influence the perpetrator, whether it be a misdemeanor or a financial penalty in the case of a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U176	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U177	Thank you. Dear Minister, In the section on the effects of the draft, the fines imposed by the Financial Supervision Authority are also mentioned. Until 2017, they were, let's say, nonexistent. For example, in 2017, an administrative fine of EUR 3000 was imposed, with the Financial Supervision Authority dealing with an average of three misdemeanour proceedings per year between 2009 and 2015. I know they were fined a few thousand euros. However, there has been a clear link between large-scale money laundering and non-existent monitoring mechanisms throughout Estonia. It is not known if in 2017 this ceiling was raised to EUR 400000, how many fines have the Financial Supervision Authority imposed since then? Is there any record of this era?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U178	Thank you for your question. I really don't have the statistics with me, but we'll answer you in writing, we'll definitely take out the data.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U179	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U180	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Please specify this information. It was as if the committee was talking about another analysis being ordered from the University of Tartu in connection with this draft. Or have I lost my mind? Is it coming in the middle of the moon?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U181	Thank you for your question. No, good questioner, you haven't lost anything. Indeed, that is how, as I was referring to here, administrative fines are widely used to impose fines for such infringements elsewhere in Europe. But here I also read that 2002 was when the administrative penalty institution in Estonia was transferred to penal law. Both the Financial Supervision Authority has pointed out that misdemeanour procedures are somewhat cumbersome, and the burden of proof is very high. The problem so far is also that, if the burden of proof for this procedure is high, the interest is very high, this procedure will simply expire before a specific decision is reached. One step has, of course, been taken with the draft, the expiry will be interrupted when the misdemeanour decision has been appealed to the courts. The administrative fine is, let's say, more convenient in terms of implementation. There is not so much burden of proof, an administrative decision is taken and after that it is possible to challenge, appeal. This burden of proof, which exists before the penalty is imposed, shifts in some way to the time when the decision has been taken and then goes into an administrative dispute over the use of a specific administrative penalty. This is, in this sense, a pretty important ideological change that needs to be transposed or introduced into our law. In order to analyse the effects, the Ministry of Justice has ordered an analysis from the University of Tartu in order to obtain input to make a possible correction in our laws. But if this analysis comes from there, then a decision must be made on this basis first. And if there is a decision that the system of administrative fines must be restored, it will still take some time. But today, our aim, above all, is to enforce and transpose the European Union's requirements, which must already be in force, they must become effective more quickly if we can transpose them with the implementation of the administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U182	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U183	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I certainly do not agree with my colleague that we had non-existent control mechanisms, but time has passed, the qualification of money laundering has changed and international cooperation in this area has changed. The Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Authority have always recalled the small amount of the fine. I do not think that, in fact, in the case of banks, the basic instrument can be a fine at all, but still, we have said that these fines are too small. The Ministry of Justice has quite a legal theory against changing it. Let's recap once again how suddenly this paradigm shift was possible, this transition to administrative fines. How was this break in the legal paradigm possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U184	Thank you, good questioner! We have not yet decided today whether we will restore this administrative procedure as a criminal procedure. This has been requested. As I pointed out, for example, the Financial Supervision Authority has shown that misdemeanour is too burdensome, slow and clumsy. Similarly, the former President of the Supreme Court, Mr Priit Pikamäe, has repeatedly pointed out that it would be reasonable to resolve such cases so as to restore the same administrative procedure. So I guess that didn't come by collecting the knowledge. It has now been decided that at least this matter must be analysed, discussed. If I think of anything personally, I think it's pretty reasonable and very worth considering. Indeed, today's criminal law procedure is extremely burdensome and has become more and more burdensome over the years. If, at the beginning, it was thought that criminal proceedings were such a serious procedure, where everything had to be proved from the end to the end, all representation rights and the burden of proof were very high, and the misdemeanour procedure was much easier there, the practice shows that there is little difference between criminal proceedings or serious misdemeanour proceedings, the burden of proof is quite similar.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U185	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. It is now possible for political groups... Yeah, before that, we're still going to the second report. The co-rapporteur is Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Legal Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U186	Hello, Jurgen! Hello, the others! The draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws was in the Committee on Legal Affairs on Monday 11 November. a. The debate was long and thorough. These issues, which were of interest to the members of the Commission, were quite the same as in this Chamber. It was discussed that fines would change and legal persons could be fined up to EUR 20 million or up to 15% of turnover. It was also mentioned that the voluntary period of payment of the fine would be extended to 45 days. As this is a first reading, a larger round of engagement comes between the first and second readings. The Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, to propose that the first reading be closed and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 December 2019. There were 8 members of the Commission with one abstention on each issue. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-20_U187	Any questions for the waitress? Dear waitress, there are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish for a speech? There's no call. We'll close the negotiations right here. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 94. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 4 December at 4 p.m. Thanks, everybody! The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.26 p.m.
