ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 2nd working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. It's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Let's move on to the messages. Today, following the end of the plenary session, the next parliamentary groups will hold their own set-up meetings in this Chamber. First, Eesti-Fidži, convener Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits; second, Estonian-Armenia, convener Raivo Tamm; third, Estonian-Brazil, convener Raivo Tamm. The meeting of the family support group, convened by Tarmo Kruusimäe, will also take place at the end of the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, We're gonna do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 15.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U2	Today, we have one item on the agenda: Chancellor of Justice of the European Union. An overview of the activities carried out in 2005. Before we go to this, I will give a brief overview of how we are going to deal with this item. First, the Chancellor of Justice has an overview for up to 20 minutes, then you can ask the rapporteur questions. Every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask one oral question, followed by negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups may speak during the negotiations. So, now, today's item, Chancellor of Justice, 2018/2019. An overview of the activities carried out in 2005. I would like to ask Chancellor Ülle Madise to wait for the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Indeed, another review year's summary is in front of you. The circle of topics is wide as always, from taxes, banking, surveillance of surveillance activities to environmental protection, heritage protection, protection of children's and young people's rights, the situation of disabled people's concerns and nursing homes. I'll start with what's good. Last year of review, this is from 1 September 2018 until 31 August of this year, we met officials and decision-makers everywhere in Estonia who are doing their job exactly as they should: committed to solving people's problems, not simply by processing out of their door. So I want to stress that at times generalisations, like all officials and all politicians are reckless and bad, are not fair. However, the fact is that the generalisations do not come from an empty space. Since the work of the Chancellor of Justice is in the broadest sense of constitutional supervision, we also need to talk mostly about what is wrong and what should be done differently, because the concerns of people above all come to our table, too, but unfortunately very rarely. As usual, when we look for the cause of a person's concern and possible solutions, we first ask whether a person was caught by an unconstitutional norm. This has also happened several times in the last year of the review. Proposals to bring some laws into line with the Constitution also reached the Riigikogu. I can mention the lack of protection of the rights of a municipal council member, i.e. the need to give them the right to apply to the administrative court if they are not appointed by any committee and if they are not given any information about what is happening in the local government. The right to compensation for damage suffered in the course of a misdemeanour needs to be improved, as it is now almost impossible. Jne. Thank you for supporting these proposals and I hope that the necessary changes will come into force soon. Quite a few had to challenge the regulations of cities and municipalities. Of these, perhaps the most important thing we took to the Supreme Court was to resolve the concerns of people who did not have the necessary social welfare. We found problems in a dozen regulations in the city of Narva. Unfortunately, Narva is not the only one leaving people in need of social welfare without help, referring to the lack of money and planning difficulties. The decision of the Supreme Court promises to become an important milestone in the division of labour between the state and local government. For the most part, cities and municipalities have regulated their regulations on our proposal. Among them were entertaining for the observer, but I stress that most of these situations are important to the person himself. For example, to inform you that a rural municipality had found a unique solution to dealing with stray animals. And that is, when a man threw a piece of sausage or gave them a little drink to a pack of stray cats, that man was considered to be the owner of these cats and, for example, to demand that these animals be chipped and given him all the other duties of the owner. It is also a good idea for an observer to have fun with a large local government, which was formed after the administrative reform, with urban inhabitants as well as numerous fields and forests, the same rules of procedure were introduced and a grandmother whose house was three kilometres away from the nearest household was forbidden to do carrot penis and dry her laundry without special permission. Indeed, there were a number of such things. I am very pleased that the cities and municipalities have corrected these errors very quickly and without judicial intervention. Thank them for that! As you know, honourable representatives of the people, we also signal if the law or regulation is perhaps not against the Constitution, but life shows its weaknesses and insanity. Thus, we have referred to you for example the negative, or undesirable, side effects of the new Income Tax Act that need to be resolved. Just a few of them to remind you. The person's tax burden is increased by, for example, receiving redundancy or maternity benefit at the end of the year or by receiving support from KredEx to renovate his/her home and receiving it for a natural person rather than through a housing association. Often, a family with many children who needs support to repair their ancestors' homes cannot form a housing cooperative; only the same family lives there. This error also works against the initial good objectives. I very much hope that, like many others, these mistakes will be quickly corrected. If the laws and regulations are constitutional, a person may get caught in the gears because officials are wrong or do not care. These were the situations that were the most common in our practice. What can I do? If there was a simple solution, it would have been implemented by now, but there are still some thoughts, and, honourable Riigikogu, if you share them, I would ask you to shoulder it to change the situation. Firstly, I believe that the conscious abuses and omissions of officials and politicians arising from laziness, fear or from playing with the future of Estonia and the fate of the people must be strongly condemned. Secondly, it is very important that, if miscalculation is behind a mistake, instead of condemnation, the courage to correct it should be acknowledged. It's gonna make it worse. Fear of public or superior resentment leads to denying mistakes and defending imaginary uniforms. But the price is high: people's well-being and peace of mind. For example, there is no good reason to start looking at the grounds for acquiring citizenship for people who are considered to be born and leaving people without an identity document. I'm talking about the problem of the Estonians in Abkhazia, but not just that. This argument is ongoing. As a unit, not as a valuable person, elderly and disabled people are too often seen as well as children with growth difficulties. And not only those, but also land and forest owners, for example, who are waiting for years for the decision of the state or local government to establish a protected area, for example. During this waiting period, they will not have the opportunity to use their land and forest. It is these things that give rise to mistrust of their country. I'd call it a petty grudge, which at one point may accumulate into a great resentment. Now one quote: 'This is an example of how dealing with a few individual cases spends over the years on the resources of many public authorities that could be used more rationally. 'Translation: we had to waste time on a family mine story. We're talking about the famous well of the luminous water of Kassinur. This was the answer after we had asked for months to find out where the nitrates came from and, if it is not clear, to help build a suitable well exactly as the law requires. By the way, it's not a single family problem. When it comes to the need to keep life outside major centers, it is these small things that become big and sometimes decisive things. In this case, and in many other cases, we heard that we could help a person to comply with the law, but in that case others would want to do the same. I guess we always explain that this is the case: if others are also entitled to a well at the expense of the municipality or the state, or to an elevator to a house under heritage protection, or for example to leave the swell unscathed, to meet the local community, that is what must be done. These are considerations, they do not like parties with competing interests, but that is the job of an official: to look people in the eye and say that we do so because... Thirdly, I keep going back to this question, which was repeatedly raised with the political groups: why officials are so often indifferent and do not make a prudent decision. I think the biggest problem is the weakness of our so-called front line. Do professionals in occupations and inspections, schools and hospitals, child protection and nursing homes still have a supportive working environment, fair recognition and appropriate pay? I'm afraid not. And we've seen that isn't really. The gap between ministries' salaries is increasing. And at the same time, people at the front line will see how much substitution there really is in the ministries and how little there is. It doesn't increase motivation. All that can be done by the machines is already given to the machines. We have to admit that pensions and social benefits can no longer be calculated manually at the moment. As a side comment: I think this too is a problem because we have been held hostage to large and clumsy information systems. We have heard on several occasions that one or another error in taxation, for example, cannot be corrected because the information system does not allow. And the cost of developing the information system compared to the tax revenue generated is often disproportionate. However, the fact is that where discretion, hearing people and making individual decisions in diverse circumstances is possible, a wise, willing and decision-making officer is needed. He is needed on the very front line where the monthly salary of the person who has to find out, for example, environmental pollution is often around 900 euros. Honourable Riigikogu! Improving work organisation and better pay are urgently needed at the "frontier" where a person meets with a country where it is made clear whether a site has a protected species, whether at all and if so what can be deducted from the taxable income, or whose tracks are at the crime scene, whether a private school receives an open-ended licence, what kind of social assistance is needed by a person in distress. These are often more demanding and more competent decisions than those that need to be taken by a "little ministerial official." Kafka situations, where the state or local government has made conflicting demands and harmful recommendations to the person, unfortunately, occurred in several areas during the last year of the review. Perhaps the most incredible and saddest of them is the story of a dead man whom no public authority considered necessary to help back into life. The man had been declared dead in absentia and wanted to return to life. And before he got to us, no one had told him what he should do to get back to the living. It was a truly Kafka-like journey. Among other things, the person in the court office was told that he could not bring a statement because he was dead. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Then it was found that his representative couldn't make a statement either, because the dead couldn't have a representative. And indeed, man lost hope. It ended when we were forced to help him complete the necessary documents and take him to the right place. Right now, a person is alive again, paying taxes, and I believe he has health insurance now. The situation was quite similar to that of a disabled person whose ID card was blocked. This is not a wealthy person. The bank account, which could only be used using the same ID-card, had all his money. And then he was told to make the transfer, pay the state fee, and then we'll open your ID card again. In fact, it must be done free of charge and at home with a person. We managed to fix it after a few weeks of effort. And I hope the system got better. At the same time, the mother of the person who fought for her was able to make a complete mess for weeks, give completely contradictory recommendations and anger the person with absurd demands, including the requirement to enter her bank account using the same blocked ID card and make the necessary transfer. I am very pleased that the Minister for Public Administration has taken on the necessary part of the reform of the state, i.e. the consolidation of the confusing institutions and the reduction of this kind of Kafka situation. I very much hope that this is where the attention will be transferred and that the fine cutting that is not really needed will not go under the flag of the state reform. The most important reform, I think, is that all officials do the work they have to do and do very well, do too much, do not do it, and do it again. It'll make life better. Good people's representatives! Of course, it is tempting to speak to me from some 2,000 points of view, perhaps to you, but I am also talking about the protection of people's privacy at the end of the presentation. Unfortunately, a new way of thinking that is more suited to totalitarian society, which says that it would be very good if everyone could be punished, that the money on their account could be blocked, without having to prove or justify anything in particular, and that, in the event of an error, the state would have to compensate for the damage. To explain, it is said that those who are needed will probably be held accountable, but in principle everyone will be held accountable. Of course, global crime also needs tough anti-money laundering measures, but this does not justify ignoring the rule of law. Living in Panoptic is a mental disorder and an uncontrollable authority official. That is why we have resisted the excessive burden of proof in banking. We opposed the granting of almost unlimited and uncontrolled data collection rights to the prison service, as well as the intention to sell Estonian people's health data abroad. Thank you, Riigikogu, for supporting these activities! It was thanks to the intervention of the Riigikogu that, in our opinion, the anti- Constitutional plan was not carried out on several occasions. And quite finally, the Estonian language and language. One reason why people often fall between gears is, in my opinion, the general attitude expressed in words. If it is a customer and a service, it is inevitably easier to indifferently shrug shoulders: well, the customer did not receive the service. If you should say as it is, for example, that a mother and her child in need were left in trouble, it would be difficult to deal with people outside the door. Perhaps it is time to speak again about things as they are and acknowledge those who speak logical, honest, and clear, and whose actions are in harmony with the story. Thank you so much for listening. Our views have been published online to the extent that they can be published on the basis of the rules on the protection of personal data and state secrets. I'm very happy to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U4	Thank you, dear waitress. You really have a lot of questions. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U5	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Thank you for a very meaningful presentation. The compulsory funded pension, the so-called second pillar, is intended primarily to prevent the elderly from falling into poverty. The planned plan allows people to withdraw their money immediately from the pension pillar and spend it as they see fit. It is claimed that those leaving the pillar have the wisdom to invest this money more wisely than the state and pension funds have so far done. However, if investment decisions prove wrong, or if this money is spent, who is responsible and who will cover the costs if, in 20 years' time, these people have no money to buy food and medicines or to pay for the heating costs of their home? Should those leaving the pension pillar also write a statement that they will give up social assistance in the future? Would such a waiver be lawful, in line with the principles of human rights protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U6	Thank you very much. Indeed, the proposed pension reform is an issue that we are following with great care and attention. Since we do not know the draft law at the moment, at least it has not come to our hands, it is very difficult to say whether or not it is compatible with the Constitution. But I can talk about a few points. Unless the Constitution of Estonia is amended, according to which society as a whole must guarantee everyone a minimum of decent living, and Estonia does not renounce international agreements that require the state to do the same, it is important, in keeping with such plans, to consider how to deal with pensioners who end up in poverty later, what are the measures that guarantee a pension in old age with a replacement rate of at least 40% of their previous income. Since we do not know whether such measures have been thought through, it is difficult to say at the moment whether this kind of reform is compatible with the Constitution or not. But it is, of course, likely that, in the event of the disappearance of a pension system which would ensure, for as many as possible, a decent living in old age within the meaning of the Constitution, it must be taken into account that these people must be provided with a much greater amount of social support, at the expense of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U7	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You also mentioned money laundering and the activities of banks in this regard in your speech. Like you, we as ambassadors receive different signals from both private individuals and businesses. Over the last year or a half, more and more has been said about how banking operations are dealt with and how businesses are interacted with in terms of bureaucracy. Do you also see excessive restraint or discrimination in the light of this so-called prevention of money laundering? How could an undertaking benefit from assistance and support in such a situation? Is this all legitimate, normal or not? One of today's news reports is that Swedbank has said in its internal audit that they are not yet satisfied with the whole system. Does this mean even tougher measures and even more bureaucracy or something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U9	Thank you. We have also had a number of complaints on these issues. Indeed, there are people and entrepreneurs to whom no bank in Estonia is opening an account. The reason may be that a person has been convicted, for example, on the basis of an article that has to do with money laundering or any other act of that kind, or is considered suspicious for other reasons. The problem, however, is that today it is not possible to live normally without a bank account. Even kindergarten fees are generally paid by bank transfer, not to mention salaries, fees, etc. This really is a problem that needs to be resolved, and our administration is also in the middle of a radiant negotiation with the officials of the Ministry of Finance. In our opinion, the Penal Code does not provide for such additional punishment, and the fact is that failure to open a bank account is an additional punishment, making life impossible for a person. So the subject is really extremely important. As regards the excessive burden of proof, i.e. the right of the bank, or the right of the FIU to seize the money on the account and to demand proof of its origin and legality, without any quantitative limits, without any reference to what is behind such a decision, and also without the obligation to pay interest for the time when the person could not use his money, this is, in our view, a very serious problem. In itself, the burden of proof is possible, but not so widespread and not without responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U10	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U11	Thank you. I, too, thank you for this very interesting and meaningful presentation. In my opinion, in your report and, in fact, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs before we prepared for this presentation, you pointed out such an interesting tendency that, if we go past normal coordination and public involvement, crap happens. In fact, if, in 2016, the law went against the six-month rule and, in disregard of the opposition and public criticism, had to be rudely fine-tuning the income tax system as a campaign, as you said, it has led to a great deal of new injustice for both the elderly and the parents. I assume you have also spoken to the government on this issue, and my question is: do you see in the government the willingness to admit mistakes and perhaps even correct them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U12	Thank you very much. In my understanding, there is a willingness to correct errors, and I hope that the Riigikogu will soon introduce these necessary amendments to the laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U13	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U14	Thank you. Good Chancellor of Justice! I read in your work report that you have also been approached by parents who do not see their children, despite the current communication arrangements. I know a mother who hasn't seen her child in a year and a half, even though there's a court order of communication. I understand that this is not an isolated case, that you have been approached by more parents with such concerns and that you have also made proposals to the Ministry of Justice and Social Affairs on how to resolve or prevent such situations. What kind of problem do you think this is, and what are the suggestions, how can such situations be better addressed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U15	Thank you very much. This is indeed an extremely difficult problem. A valid court settlement can say that a child should see both parents, and if, for example, siblings grow up with different parents, siblings should also see each other. It's a solution, but it's not gonna work. There's no simple solution here. It's not like a bailiff can take people to meet another parent or sister or brother forcefully and reluctantly with the police. However, we believe that there is one solution that would help to prevent such situations, and this was also discussed with the Minister for Population, who very much promised to support this idea. And that is, if the parents' paths of life are broken up, the divorce would require mediation between them. I do not want to say 'acceptance' as adults, we know that in many cases, in this situation, real reconciliation is not possible until the years pass. However, it is possible to clarify the matter, as Risto Sepp, for example, has said in public interviews how he does it: it is possible to explain the consequences for a child if he or she has to live in an atmosphere where parents blame each other, manipulate a child to bully one another, etc. In short, the solution could be the expert mediation of agreements already in the process of separation. People's relationships have gotten messed up, but the kid should be psychically healthy. Otherwise, even for a relatively small child, the consequences will be extremely severe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U16	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, with these vivid examples for your presentation and the strength of your hard work to protect people's fundamental rights. But I want to ask you about the protection of fundamental rights. Let us look at recent events, such as the wish to disengage the police chief illegally, as well as the rights of the prison service mentioned in your presentation, which is currently a matter of military intelligence in the Supreme Court. In this light, a new field of work seems to be emerging to you, I mean, there is a possibility that we will have an internal defence reserve. We have the Defence League, we have auxiliary police, we have volunteer marine rescuers and, of course, we have the Defence Forces and the police as power structures. Now we hear there's a plan to do something that volunteers want to hand out. And that is why I am asking you: how do you assess it from the point of view of protecting fundamental rights, that people who are not properly trained are given the right to impose on civilians?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U18	Thank you very much. When such a bill arrives on the table, of course we will look at it thoroughly. So far, it has been our view that people who have been trained and given the necessary oath of loyalty can still be used against people, or physical coercion at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U19	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U20	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! The Constitution provides for the care of the state for a person in old age. Do you believe that there is a constitutional process where this care is clearly reduced: money is taken out of the pension system without any problems, impact analysis, clear recipes? The only objective declared is to do this as soon as possible and to avoid coordination circles with experts. Is a step that turns back into a system that has been developed for years, in your opinion, constitutional?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U21	Thank you. As has been said, an assessment of the possible pension reform law can be made when this draft exists. There are a huge number of details on which constitutionality depends. More generally, however, there is a tendency that decisions that change society in principle are made very quickly and at the same time relatively minor changes that are urgently needed and where both the nature, cause and solution of the problem are obvious, dragging. Then there are plans to develop, which are basically pre-drafts, then this real draft will come after the draft, which will perhaps eventually reach the Riigikogu. In my practice, there are cases where a small but very important problem has not been resolved throughout the term of office. It is the same example that a 16-year-old young person can choose, but psychiatric assistance, for example, if he or she feels that he or she has become addicted, or if his or her parent has abused him or her and, as a result, a young person has mental disorders, is not allowed to receive this help at his or her own discretion. A little change, nothing complicated, but there's not, there's not going to be. The pension reform is indeed a reform for generations. The Riigikogu has no doubt the right to undertake such a reform, to change previous decisions, but the request is that its effects be considered very thoroughly and that society is also thoroughly devoted to this matter. The fact is that, when making such a decision, it is either necessary to find mechanisms that in some other way insure people against possible old age poverty, people themselves are unlikely to be able to do so in most cases, or it must be taken into account that the burden of social welfare really is increasing. But our authority does not interfere in political decisions, we are still analysing matters from a constitutional point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U22	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! In your report, you described a few cases of life in which you used the epithet "kafkalik." Those stories sounded really unbelievable. For example, the story of a man who was falsely pronounced dead. We are well aware that people in general are divided into those who resolve situations quickly and those who push solutions onto others or ignore opportunities to resolve the situation. What avoids such situations in the future, Chancellor of Justice, so that even the most hardened bureaucrats do not look for reasons but for solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U24	Thank you! I very much hope that the public and also the Riigikogu's insistence on those who manage such bureaucrats could lead to an improvement in the situation. We have the impression that the leaders of some agencies and inspections do not really want difficult and weighty decisions to be made quickly. It's easier to put things off or do half-times, I don't dare say solutions, I dare say half-life decisions. So I think one important issue is the quality of management. But the second question is the same: somehow, where there are the intellectually most demanding tasks, where expertise, the ability to think logically, knowledge of legislation, and also the courage to humanly say that 'to you we will compensate for the construction of a new well, because... 'and 'you, esteemed citizen, will not be compensated, because... ''That's why attention is the least, and there are also significantly lower wages than in places where replacement activities are rolled year after year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U25	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Continue to address the effects of disrupting the pension system. You're also a pediatric ombudsman. I would like to ask from this point of view. After all, today's children and young people are also affected by this change, since under the laws in force, children are obliged to support their parents. From this point of view, could you comment on the risks that this planned change in the pension system will entail?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U27	Thank you very much. Once again, you have found a question that has been repeatedly asked to our authorities in many different contexts. The question is, among other things, how much support should be given to children who were not actually cared for by that parent, who may not have been involved in the upbringing at all or even, on the contrary, in a very negative way. This is once again one of the complexes of problems facing the Riigikogu, and a sensible solution is needed here. This solution, whereby children have to pay their parents' nursing home bills and are paid together only if it has been shown in court that the parent has not fulfilled his or her obligations, or if the person has no children, is likely to be unfair in the long term and should be amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U28	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You have been approached by a large number of people who have been subjected to unfairly high taxation in connection with the recent introduction of graduated tax-free incomes. This list, which was hit by higher taxation, is long: at the end of the year, recipients of maternity benefits, recipients of redundancy benefits, recipients of KredEx social rehabilitation benefits, survivors' pensions, pensioners working. This list is not exhaustive. You concluded that these errors arose from ignorance and were not foreseeable. But have you really come to the right conclusion that these errors arose from ignorance? Given how persistently these errors are corrected and, in certain cases, not recommended to be corrected, is it not the correct conclusion that the purpose of this tax system was to collect tax revenue from the worst-performing people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U30	Thank you! In general, we are not looking very much for such reasons as why one mistake or another occurred. We have noticed that if, instead of blaming, you show the light in which direction to go, the solution will be quicker. You are undoubtedly right that this new and more complex tax regime was introduced in a hurry. Likely, if more time had been taken to reflect on different situations, these errors would not have occurred. But they've emerged. From the discussions I have been able to be in, I have the impression that the desire to correct these mistakes is general.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U31	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U32	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for the work you have done and for this overview. I'll go ahead with the Yoko Alender question. Indeed, in recent years, you have been working very hard on the organisation of the provision of social welfare services, as well as on the resolution of cases of people who have not been assisted. I have the feeling that a lot of these so-called restrictions are due to the misunderstanding of what a maintenance obligation means. I'm asking you how you see it. Where does this feature go between the family's maintenance obligation and the responsibility of the local government and the state to come to the aid of the person? Maintenance can't be too much for anyone. I would add that this debate will once again become topical in relation to the proposed reform of the second pillar, where one of the arguments that are indeed being put forward is that, in fact, children are the pillars of our pensions. But we can see that it doesn't work in social welfare, because children may be overwhelmed by this maintenance obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U33	Thank you. Once again, the very right theme setting, there are many complaints and questions about it. We have repeatedly explained that it has not yet been mentioned in this Chamber today that children should support their parents and family members in need of assistance, above all financially, if it is conceivable, and if it does not make it impossible to support their own children, their own families. It is also very important that neither the state nor the local government can expect a loved one to stay at home, for example, to stay 24 hours a day with a person who needs help, giving up his studies, work and self-realisation. In fact, according to the Constitution, this must not be assumed, which means once again that there must be solidarity, assistance provided through specialists, which also allows close work, studies and life to continue. There are huge shortcomings here. Many municipalities continue to find that it is quite normal for family members to stay at home to care for their family members, that it is perfectly normal for a low income and already distressed child to be charged with their parent's nursing home bills. We have repeatedly explained that no, that is not how it works. But there is a great deal of trouble and confusion in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U34	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U35	Thank you for a very meaningful presentation, and even more thank you personally and for the work done to your team. In my opinion, this is an example of how the public service should work everywhere. There was a lot of talk about tax reform and about the second pillar, and there was one keyword about both issues: rushing. In the case of income tax, we already know why these problems have arisen, in the case of the pension system and in the case of the second pillar reform, we can only anticipate this, especially if no impact analysis has been seen, but decisions have already been taken. Here's my question. What is the reason why little things get entangled, take time or aren't decided, but in big things they want to make decisions in haste? What can be done to change this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U36	Thank you. The state is run by the Riigikogu. It is possible for the Riigikogu to initiate and make these small changes on its own. This was also repeatedly demonstrated by the previous composition. I hope that this composition will act in the same way. In fact, the Riigikogu, its committees, every member, every political group has the right to initiate a bill and if the Riigikogu has votes together, it is also possible to correct a minor mistake relatively quickly. After all, the major reforms are that, for some reason, the right number of electoral cycles are thought to be important things to do in the first hundred days. In fact, it is neither a constitution nor a global constitutional practice, but for some reason, Estonia's public opinion has generated this kind of expectation. Perhaps it would be possible if the public did not like to make such very large decisions quickly, to give up this expectation. This hundred days are meant to make things clear to themselves and to plan things, not to do everything like Ivan Orava's grandfather.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U37	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Very esteemed Chancellor of Justice! My question actually concerns the role of the Riigikogu in legislation. I have not done statistics, but I dare say that 95% of the draft laws are initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Riigikogu may have a narrow 5%, but among its few 5% there are many such drafts, where the Riigikogu is used as a tool to be able to do faster and should not be able to carry out a development plan. We have discussed the fundamentals of legislation in the Committee on Legal Affairs until 2030. There are no changes scheduled for today's procedure. In my opinion, of course, one can say that there are a number of subjective reasons why this situation is like this, but I argue that these are rather objective reasons, since 95% of the information, resource and competence are actually in the hands of the ministries. My question is this: is the situation in which the Riigikogu initiates less than 5% of the draft laws in accordance with the meaning and provision of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U39	Thank you. The fact is that the Riigikogu, its members, committees and political groups have the right to initiate drafts as much as they deem necessary, and so the proportion of the Riigikogu in determining the content of the laws is up to the Riigikogu itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U40	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! The Land Office changed the area of the cadastral units at the end of 2018. Is the Land Board obliged to issue earlier ones to landowners, 2003. Maps of the year with cadastral boundaries?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U42	Thank you very much. That's a good question. Once again, there are many, many statements on this subject. If the authority has data on a person, this data must be provided to the person. Exceptions are rare, and they are enshrined in the law. That's one. Secondly, indeed, the boundaries of these properties in the cadastral were noted differently without informing the people, and in many cases the properties were also defined differently from before, which had an impact on the land tax burden. People were not informed about this and we estimate that these views are available on our website and that this is in contradiction with the rules of constitutional administrative procedure. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U43	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U44	Dear waitress, A few years ago, at a meeting in your office, a peculiar topic arose: namely, the Chancellor of Justice worried about residence permits for homosexual couples. I think one half lived in an African country. The subject was serious, as I understood. Have our zealous officials already distributed these residence permits, and is this subject something up? At all, is this an innovative immigration scheme or, in your opinion, is this situation restricting some kind of freedom?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U45	Thank you for your question. To be honest, there has been little contact with these issues. The Chancellor of Justice has made one proposal, the content and reason of which was that the Republic of Estonia treated an Estonian citizen who had lived in Estonia worse than an Estonian citizen who had been a resident of another Member State of the European Union, or worse than a citizen of another European Union country living in Estonia, if that person wanted to bring his same-sex life partner to Estonia. Our proposal was to treat the Estonian citizen who lived in Estonia no worse than others.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U46	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U47	Thank you, manager. Thank you, Chancellor, for a meaningful presentation and good cooperation. But my question is about the protection of the minority. The shareholders of AS Põlva Hospital are 51% Tartu University Hospital and 49% Põlva Municipality, the owners of the shares of the clinic are the state, the city of Tartu and the clinic. Now, if this 51% shareholder wants to close the maternity division, and 49% owner certainly wants it to continue, and the supporters of this 49% shareholder are a further 9000 citizens and support groups with 3000 members, how can a minority defend its rights if 51% owner wants to shut it down and 49% owner, or local government and community, are sure to want this department to continue? In support of the continuation, it can be said that there are no quality problems and that the number of births is increasing. How could a minority defend themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U48	Thank you for this question. We follow the fate of the maternity department at Kõlva Hospital, and we have also had appeals and questions on this issue. As regards the management of companies and the right of the say of shareholders, it is not the same in all companies. The question of what can be done by the local community to preserve the possibility of giving birth in Põlva is undoubtedly right. It seems to me that the community has done the maximum. But the arguments on the various sides are all equally compelling, so here, unfortunately, we cannot be a mediator, we have not been given such a mandate. But let's watch with care and compassion.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U49	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U50	Thank you. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your report. A large number of these reports dealt with the procedure outside the door, but my question concerns the opening of office and the harassment of work. We have all witnessed here recently how officials have come under considerable pressure for political reasons. The first example comes to my mind is how a minister publicly humiliated a diplomat by asking him such questions or exclaiming who you are to ask any questions. Or another example of how the head of the administration is simply Ruined and bullied by various procedures in order to finally bring him to the position where he is likely to give up and give up. What can be done in such a situation? How does the Constitution view such a situation, and how much have you had to deal with such matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U51	Thank you! Indeed, there are some statements about bullying, and they are currently in work. So I can't make a conclusion. But I understand what the question is about. To comment so much, I believe that these cases clearly show how wisely the creation, merger, closure, selection, appointment and dismissal of a political office and inspectorates have been resolved at the moment. These are all collegial decisions. The Riigikogu creates, joins and loses offices and inspections. I think this is absolutely right. If I may give you suggestions, I will tell you not to surrender this right. If you're going to take it away, I suggest you think about it nine times and not give it away. As regards the appointment and dismissal of the Directors-General, I think it is extremely important that these decisions remain statesmanly and broad-based, that the Riigikogu be involved, as it is today, and that decisions are taken by the Government of the Republic as a whole, not by a single minister. The politically independent competent people should be elected to these positions. Of course, if the Director-General of the Office or of the Inspectorate or any other non-political official is a person who is unable to perform his work or who abuses the authority given to him or her, then there is a clear rule of law on how to deal with the situation. The public will know about this, and this solution will also be found on a broad basis and must not be based on political discretion. So, in my opinion, all that has happened, the examples that have gathered in Estonia over the years, confirm that the idea of so-called state reform aimed at concentrating power is harmful.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U52	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U53	Thank you, good manager. First of all, thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for another meaningful presentation. My question concerns customer service versus problem handling. In the last decade, I was the prefect of the Tallinn police and we introduced the so-called customer service principle in the police system. I remember when a serious constable stood up and said, "Hey, Mr. Prefect, what's this customer service in police business?" I was wondering what I'd say to him. I said, look, maybe you'd act like you'd expect me to treat you when you came to the police with your problem. The same is true, in my opinion, of the work of the official body in the performance of its duties. To give examples, as Chancellor of Justice, you are not merely based on the Constitution, but you are looking at what the problem is, and you are also trying to give him advice. In other words, is the choice of leaders and consideration of the attitudes of these leaders not what we need?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U54	Thank you. That's a good question. I think it is. I would be delighted if this kind of attitude, as we try to keep honored, we solve, not process, every legitimate path to solve a person's concern is acceptable, the shorter and faster, the better if this thinking expands. We would only be very happy about that. Second, it is not the case that those who do much try, risk, and try to resolve exceptional situations fairly and sensibly can also make mistakes. Here is the call that mistakes caused by laziness, looseness or even maliciousness must be condemned on a firm hand and the perpetrator probably punished, but when it comes to miscalculation, the swift correction of the error should be encouraged and acknowledged.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U55	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U56	Good chairman of the sitting! Your Honor, Chancellor! In your report, you touched on the subject of protected lands. My question is about forest land in Natura areas. Indeed, does the state behave in accordance with the Constitution when, in a sense, it sanctions the activities of the owner of forest land located in Natura sites? In other words, it obliges the holder to submit an application by a certain date to obtain compensation for the restrictions imposed on his property and, if the holder does not submit such an application, even if he forgets not to submit it, he does not receive that fee, but sanctions, or restrictions, are still in force. Firstly, is it constitutional, and secondly, is this not perhaps a genuine example of substitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U57	Thank you very much. As always, if I am not sure if my answer is correct, I will also, with your permission, think about it, consult with the advisors a little, and then I will answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U58	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U59	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I appeal to you about a problem that is probably familiar to some people who have been exposed to procedural acts under the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. I have received various information about the fact that an out-of-court practitioner often obstructs the person under proceedings if it wishes to use the so-called independent defence function or wants to have access to the material. I'll give you a few examples. Often, when a person turns to the police for the purpose of obtaining material, he is told that we only give these materials to a lawyer and that you do not have access to them at the moment. Or if the materials are delivered, a certain...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U60	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U61	Yeah. Is there any plan to do something about this, so that individuals can actually exercise their rights in misdemeanour proceedings?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U62	Thank you. Indeed, people must be able to exercise all their rights in the process of misdemeanour. Your question has been on the table since the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and you will be answered. At the moment, however, I answer so much that it is possible to extend the rights of the parties to misdemeanour proceedings, even in the course of the same draft procedure that the Riigikogu hopefully prepares, in order to solve the problem before you, if a person who has suffered damage due to a misdemeanour is prevented from accessing the data (including his own health data that the state has in place) so that he can bring a claim for damages. We believe that this is unconstitutional. Thank you for agreeing with the Riigikogu. With the same bill, you can make these other changes if you wish. But let's look at the question you asked and answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U63	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U64	Good manager! Your Honor, Chancellor! We have arranged that the social guarantees, be they parental benefit, unemployment insurance, access to health insurance or the much-spoken pension that we are talking about, are individualised. In the case of long-term care, in particular for the general care home service, the burden is high for family members, the person and the family members cover almost 80% of the costs. The obligation imposed on family members must be fulfilled, according to the law of the family, in fact the Constitution says it. Is it possible to consider that the legal assumption is the opposite, that it is not the person who has to prove the necessity of discharge or reduction of the obligation, but rather the public sector? Perhaps I do not have to go to court to apply for an exemption from the maintenance obligation of a parent who has not raised me or has been abusive in my upbringing, but is automatically taken into account and is the opposite situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U65	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that such a change is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U66	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U67	Good manager! Good Chancellor of Justice! The question concerns the protection of the secret of the Constitution, or the alleged violation of its right by Estonian postal companies. We've talked about this on the phone sometime. Supposedly, the majority of courier or postal companies through which documents are sent by international mail are routinely opening all these shipments, the documents being free to be, I don't know, wills, business contracts, whatever. There are many cases when people have been disturbed by this. The explanation is that it's their own internal order. There's obviously a constitutional barricade. Have you dealt with this and what is the position of your house now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U68	Thank you very much. If such facts exist, they must be assessed in cooperation with the police and the prosecutor's office. I'll check to see if we've done anything else in this area in the meantime, but if my memory isn't fooled, then the question was that there were no concrete facts on which to keep track.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U69	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U70	Thank you. Chancellor of Justice, I too want to thank you for a very interesting presentation. But the question is very specific and specific. No one can be deprived of birth citizenship under the Constitution. At the same time, the Citizenship Act leaves the ends a little open: in some places it requires a person to make a choice; in some places the authorities also leave a little pressure on the authorities. The result is that many people have given up their citizenship at birth. Do you see a contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act? In case you see this, who should take the initiative to eliminate this contradiction? Is it the Riigikogu, or is it the Chancellor of Justice or someone else third?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U71	Thank you very much. Indeed, the provision of the Constitution is clear: no one is to be deprived of citizenship at birth. The losing of birth citizenship is essentially exactly the same, the wolf is still sushi and the susi is the wolf. As far as we know, this section has not actually been implemented which, in the Citizenship Act, creates such a dark area. But indeed, this is a subject we are working on. It is also a question of the fact that the grounds for acquiring citizenship of people who have already been considered a postpartum citizen have been reviewed retrospectively. These people have not given false information to the state, nothing has changed in the situation, but at the same time it is deprived of the post-natal citizenship of an Estonian language teacher working in Abkhazia or his close guardian. We have also learned cases when a person has learned such a thing, for example, from the Russian authorities. In this sense, this is a very problematic area and we will continue to fight for people's rights here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U72	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U73	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! There really are a lot of topics and I could ask you anything, but I'm going to ask you something a little more specific. This once again concerns citizenship, this time a draft citizenship law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I am not going to tell you what the main content is, but one provision or one regulation there is what raises my questions and concerns. Namely, only one parent can apply for Estonian citizenship for a child under 18 years of age. Do you not consider this to be contrary to the law of the family, according to which parents are equally responsible for the child? Can't you see here again in the future the opportunity for parental spite that a child actually suffers if one parent wishes and the other parent doesn't want? Should this regulation not, however, comply with the rules laid down in the Family Law?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U74	Thank you very much. Again, decision-making and consideration are in the hands of the Riigikogu, and we have the property to rush to the field with our own views. As far as information is concerned, if there is a conflict between the Family Act and the Citizenship Act, then what is left is the Citizenship Act, because it is a so-called Constitutional Act, which requires at least 51 votes for adoption, the Family Law is a so-called simple law and requires only a simple majority of votes for adoption. So if there's any contradiction between them, it's what's in the Citizenship Act. But with people in mind, it is, of course, a good thing that the legal order as a whole is internally consistent and as simple as possible. Many people don't understand how many laws to read and then discuss which ones apply. And they don't have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U75	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you very much, Chancellor of Justice, for today's review, but even more for the work you and your team do every day, both in Tallinn and around Estonia, advising people, including officials and social workers. There are many things to ask, such as maintenance. We would very much like the Minister of Justice to come to this Chamber with amendments to this appointment. However, I am asking today about the dignity of the end of life and, above all, about ageing well. All over Estonia there are different arrangements for the assignment and award of benefits to nursing homes. There are municipalities in which you do not appoint a close guardian, because the family cannot pay the costs of nursing homes, they say that it is your duty under the family law anyway. Do you think that some things could not be harmonised across Estonia regardless of where they live, whether or not on the basis of designation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U77	Thank you very much. As I've said many times, yes. This can also be done on the initiative and on the decision of the Riigikogu, if the majority here considers it right and reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U78	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U79	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! It is as if we have a solidarity health system. At the same time, there are citizens, taxpayers, who come out of the doctor's office knowing that they have a serious illness and that they have a medicine, but the healthcare system does not cover its costs. They are told that the disease is too complicated and that the treatment costs too much. Do you think this is fair to this taxpayer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U80	Thank you very much. These situations are humanly awfully tragic. This is precisely the area in which decision-making, which is humanly so difficult, makes the work of the Health Insurance Board so terribly difficult, in my opinion. By pushing this question, I have a vital case to tell you when I have managed to say, just as it succeeds almost every night of the working day, all of our people, that we have solved some problems, asked for some unconstitutional rules to be fixed, and that is what has been done. There was a case of two very rare children with a disease. The medicine was available, the health insurance fund had decided that this medicine would also be paid for. The treatment would have led to an improvement in children's condition in such a way that they could have gone to a fully normal school, before their mobility was severely impaired. The cure was very expensive, it was there, but in Britain. It's been a year, nothing. Nowhere in this case did Mother know what was behind it. The cure is, the diagnosis is, they said they'd pay for it, but they can't get it. We got involved and it turned out it was just a matter of information movement, nobody thought it was their subject. Finally, a very late supplier was found and this medicinal product arrived in Estonia. But once again, a case that didn't interest the health insurance fund, the doctor or anyone, and the mother didn't know where she was supposed to get that answer, because everyone just sent her away. Thank God he got to us and we managed to help. Thank you very much to all the medical staff and other workers who helped!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U81	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U82	Good President! Your Honor, Chancellor! I would like to join my good colleague, Helmen Kütt, in thanking you for paying attention in your work to Estonia as a whole and to Narva, for example, in resolving social issues, as well as issues concerning the organisation of the local government's work. My question concerns the work of the local government council. Do you consider it appropriate to change the law here? I will give three examples. We know that there are councils in Estonia where members of the opposition cannot be members of the committees, we know that there are councils in Estonia where the chairman of the audit committee does not belong to the opposition, we know that it is quite common practice that members of the coalition belong to the councils of several local government institutions and foundations and are considerably remunerated there. Do we not need a legislative amendment here to improve the situation and really allow all elected representatives to have access to the actual work of the council?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U83	Thank you very much. I think that's the kind of law amendment you need. Some of this we have asked the Riigikogu for a report in the form of a report, as these are issues that do not directly conflict with the Constitution. But, for example, the fact that a council member is unable to defend his rights in any way, unless he is given information, or if he is not appointed by any committee, is, in our opinion, unconstitutional. I thank the Riigikogu, which felt the same way, and I very much hope that this necessary change will enter into force soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U84	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U85	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! My question concerns the relationship between local authorities and local deposits. In my opinion, the state has unfortunately forced the local authorities to make decisions that are reluctant to them, thereby exempting themselves from the duty of consideration. I'll be more specific. If the local council does not agree to a study or mining permit, the Environmental Board or the Government of the Republic would, in principle, be able to consider such a decision and still make that decision if it considers this activity to be important, at national level. Regrettably, the recent case law has also been such that the state does not take these decisions, and the court also does these decisions to the detriment of the municipalities and obliges the municipalities to review the decisions. How do you assess this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U86	Thank you very much. The Constitution and the Law prohibit me from commenting publicly on judgments. At the very least, it can be done in the columns of Juridica Abstract magazine. But thank you very much for the good question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U87	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U88	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your report. My question concerns administrative reform, or rather its consequences, in certain respects. As we know, all the municipalities entered into an accession agreement, which laid down certain things, but now we are hearing a lot of cases when the newly formed parish does not comply with this agreement. Legally speaking, no one is likely to be able to go to court and challenge this situation because they are no longer parties. And the political responsibility of every new council can make new decisions. However, it is still agreements signed by the rightful persons of this new municipality, to call them that. Are these agreements no longer mandatory to any extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U89	Thank you very much. In my opinion, contracts must be honoured. It's one of the foundations of being human. It seems to me that it is also one of the foundations of the functioning of society that you can expect other people around you to be be benevolent, benefactors and adhere to the agreements you have entered into. Unfortunately, real life is different from time to time. Indeed, the case with the accession treaties is that it is not different in different cases. I do not rule out some nuances that somebody will be able to go to court in the case of a merger agreement, but on the most important issues of investment, the closure of a school or other issues that are within the competence of the council, indeed, if the council decides to make a decision differently than it was in the previous accession agreement, frankly, there is not much to do about it, most of the time. In addition to the fact that there should be an internal mechanism of balance and integrity in political culture, which often does not apply, there is another very serious problem here. In the case of possible subsequent mergers, it is likely to be extremely difficult to assure the contracting parties that the contracts will be honoured, that if we agreed that we would not close the school or nursing home or that we would asphalt this path, but not that one, it would also be respected. If there is experience that there will actually be no detention and nothing will happen as a result, then the meaning of the accession treaties will be exponentially reduced in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U90	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U91	Thank you. I also thank you for the excellent work you have done so far and will continue to do. My question concerns the problem of children, or children of broken families, and the broken relationship between parents. You spoke of 'intermediation' or 'atonement'. Is this supposed to happen in your vision before or after you set up a social order? How does that work in conjunction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U92	Thank you very much. In those countries where such parental mediation works successfully, this is done before the social arrangements are agreed and ideally there will be no court. That's what we've been looking into. Although in Estonia, too, there are attempts to create such conditions for a child to avoid being traumatized, there is nothing to be done: if a child has to adapt to the fact that parents no longer get along and there is no life left, especially if he has to go to court and start explaining whether he or she likes Mommy or Daddy more or how these things are, it will traumatise him in any case. So, ideally, this is going to take place before agreements are concluded, and children do not need to be dragged by courts at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U93	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U94	Thank you, President-in-Office. Madam Chancellor, today's presentation was extremely thorough and good. At the same time, an extreme example of a dead man may inevitably give the impression of officials as people doing their jobs badly. In order not to make it sound too much, I would like to ask about the same cases relating to maintenance obligations. There are officials on the one hand, families on the other. There are also such cases when families literally scheme themselves as thieves for officials and, after that, try to prove that they are being bullied by officials. How many of these cases (as a percentage) do you have to ask for help from your institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U95	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that you raised this subject, which I myself spoke about at the very beginning, but I am really afraid that it did not sound that generalisation, as if all officials were doing a bad job, is not fair. A lot of people do a really good job. Separately, I would like to congratulate the Social Insurance Board, for example. In many cases, when we have turned and explained, having received information that, for example, the mother of a child with a severe disability has suddenly discovered that the aids are no longer available at the current price, yet the state has just said that these funds had to go cheaper, it has become clear that the person had not actually turned to the Social Insurance Board, it was the producer who had reduced the absorption of the products, i.e. diapers, and as a result the price was ultimately more expensive. But the Social Insurance Board quickly found a way to help this mother with the legal possibility of doing so in days. There are a number of such examples. Secondly, it is undoubtedly also right that some people are really being schemed. It is possible that they objectively see the situation in a completely untrue way. Perhaps the most dramatic incident on our desk in the past review period was the fact that a person claimed that he had to pay the cost of his very poor pension for a very seriously disabled spouse living in his nursing home. He could not do so, but the municipality would charge him to pay them, but then he would keep only a few euros and so on. A closer study revealed that a person had an asset, and the point was that he saw the thing so that he didn't need to find solutions for himself, that there was no need to sell some apartments, etc. Indeed, people's sense of justice is sometimes probably slightly different, and it cannot be blamed on officials. The same is often true of child welfare professionals. Sometimes, on the basis of one side of the story, there is a public stigma, and neither the child protection officer nor, for example, we, although we know what really happened, can talk about it because it is so delicate about the details of the life of this child and his family. We see that this official is being harmed, but apart from saying that you know, they're being hurt, but we can't say why it's done and what it's about, there's nothing we can do. There are cases, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U96	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U97	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! It is always a pleasure to hear your presentations, because you use a very beautiful Estonian language. But here's my question. One of today's government parties has repeatedly stressed that representative organisations of sexual minorities no longer receive public support because they represent sexual minorities. Do you see a possible contradiction here with the principle of equal treatment of people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U98	Thank you very much and thank you for your good words. Indeed, we are trying to present our views in such a way that people can understand them. It does not always work because it is more difficult to speak clearly than it is to speak in a difficult way. In order to be clear, you must know what you want to say and be able to express it boldly. As far as support from the state budget for non-profit organisations and foundations is concerned, I believe that this is one of the broader and very complex issues. For example, the money sowing that preceded the election. In many cases, unfortunately, money was given to foundations and foundations of all kinds, whose activities are, to put it mildly, doubtful, and this issue was not discussed at all in the public domain. I personally regret this, but it is not within my competence to say whether or not it is permissible. However, no association, be it a sex minority association or any other, has the right to assume or demand public support. So we can't say anything else here. But yes, ideally, I believe that public support should be given on an equal and clear basis, not in such a way that it creates major conflicts in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U99	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U100	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your report and for your action at all, which I think is a model for how a high-ranking civil servant should act: quickly, effectively, often showing us what we should improve and do. But now we come to this unfortunate Jõgeva County family in Kassinurme, who has to drink nitrate-scraped water. Authorities say it's none of their business, others say it's none of their business. You came to help me and you got involved. I think we're in the middle of a trial. But in fact, there are more families in the fields that have to drink that kind of scum, and officials don't want to solve the problem. How far is it to resolve the situation of a family living between the Kassinurme fields, or rather the families living there? How long do they have to drink sewer water?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U101	Thank you very much. Thank you for taking a strong interest in this subject, too. I believe this has been helpful in finding a solution. The situation now is that officials have managed to obtain some clear words that will help the owner of the well, after two years of fighting, first to do the work he must do, perhaps to clean up the well and close the cracks. However, at least our department's specialists find it unlikely that this amount of nitrates can reach the well from home. Everyone actually knows what these fields are and what the fruit grows there. However, it is likely to be a fertilizer that has reached that well. Now we have the hope that next spring we will be able to make the necessary measurements, and if it turns out that we are dealing with pollution caused by fertiliser, this person will also get a new well. It's very true that this is not a single family case. It's a case of a lot of people in the country. The solution is that there is a provision in the law and it says that if the polluter cannot be identified, the person will get a new well at the expense of the taxpayer. But in fact, the agency must be able to identify the polluter. The plan is to meet with the Minister of the Environment and the heads of the administration to discuss what can be done. Because, indeed, this kind of shivering causes many legitimate resentment in people. We are also in touch with the specific Kassinurme family, because, as I explained in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we do not have a kind of athletic gesture. Once we find the problem, this problem has to be solved, and if it doesn't resolve quickly, we'll hold onto it with ten nails, as long as it's resolved. It's one of those problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U102	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U103	Thank you, good manager. Dear Ülle Madise! Year 2019 is the year of Estonian language. You have clearly set an example in your profession of using beautiful Estonian in speech and in writing. Unfortunately, the draft letterbox of the members of the Riigikogu arrives, the text and explanatory memorandum of which would often require a separate explanatory memorandum. In your opinion, has the drafting of draft laws started to pay more attention to a clear, understandable language? In your work, how much have you had to draw attention to the confusing, shuffling, often superior language?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U104	Thank you very much for a very good question. In my opinion, it is a belief that the legal text, including the text of the law, must be complicated, otherwise it would not be as if a professional, very hard to disappear. Very often, it is possible to write down a simple rule of life so that everyone to whom it is intended can understand. But for some reason, it's not done. The last I noticed was that one day I was going to take a picture of it, for example, in Pirita, about the times and fish that can be caught in the Pirita River. I read it three times and I didn't understand. Well, it's actually easy to show when and when it's not allowed, but it's still formulated with mixed and knuckle and breast phrases, well, I'd say straight, that's porridge. Actually, you don't have to, and I'd say you couldn't. The recent resolution of the Administrative Chamber of the Supreme Court is extremely pleased, which, among other things, supported our understanding that, for example, when the Social Insurance Board says that a person has a partial capacity to work and has to earn some of his own living, it has to be said so that he understands it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U105	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U106	Thank you, President-in-Office. Your Honor, Chancellor! My question concerns unequal opportunities for Estonian cities and rural areas. There are many examples in Estonia that the acquisition of a home, taking into account local market conditions, is hindered by very many people in rural areas, even despite the reasonably high incomes of these people. What is your assessment of whether the right to home and self-realization in Estonia is sufficiently guaranteed by looking at the mortgage lending policy of banks, which is more conducive to the establishment of a home in large cities?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U107	Thank you very much. Yes, we have a lot of questions about this, but we cannot, of course, dictate private banks. We can only do this if there is a clear case of discrimination. For example, once the bank refused to give a credit card to a person over 74 years old and whose contributions were impeccable, and the only justification for the lady who wanted to travel was that, Madame, you are too old. Since the bank did not want this story to be made public with the name of the bank, they ended this kind of practice on our proposal. The only fact was that they thought the person was too old. In my opinion, a 75-year-old person can be a lot of people and, fortunately, many are more and more often, not only 75 years old, but also 85 years old. Then this shit stopped. But to whom or how to lend a loan, we really can't tell the bank in advance. If the State wants to allow people to do the necessary construction work and to obtain loans in rural areas, it is likely that public aid measures will be possible, but this is already the subject of political decisions and choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U108	Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the very sympathetic impression of your work and how you present it. It is also a sympathetic approach that you help to see the problem, to show the light. There is, of course, a question of sustainability here; you cannot work for others indefinitely. Your diagnosis is correct, it's a question of leadership quality. My question is: what happened after these Kafka examples with these officials and their superiors? Were they trained, or what was the reaction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U110	Thank you very much for your good words. Since our aim is not necessarily to seek or punish the guilty, we did not demand this in these cases either. It is true that our people, together with the relevant officials, went through this process once again, particularly with regard to the renewal of the same ID card, so that such a failure would no longer occur in similar cases. I'd like to hope you've fixed things up there. But there are also cases in our work if, as a result of our work, a person really needs to be removed from a certain part of the job. For example, during this review period, we also found, unfortunately, one judge who had systematically issued surveillance permits without any substantive justification. I can tell you this judge isn't gonna give me any more tracking permits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U111	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U112	Thank you, good manager. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Today, there has been a question here on several occasions of releasing the second pillar of pensions and, in this regard, of the great fear that it will lead pensioners to great poverty. I want to ask your opinion. Will the monthly payout of the second pillar of EUR 48 to 60, from which the income tax will still go, save our pensioners from poverty in 10 to 15 years? Secondly, can't the second-time collection of income tax on earned money be treated as double taxation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U113	Thank you very much. These are very correct questions. We can give concrete assessments and answers when the bill or the law is on the table. But this complex of questions is extremely complex because, of course, the question also relates to those people who did not join the second pillar and to whom the state did not add money from its side. Similarly, the question is that when a person withdraws money from the second pillar, there is also this 'national part' inside. Here is the question of the reduction in the volume of the first pillar, etc. It seems to me that it is most effective to discuss these issues further when a concrete solution with all its details is on the table. But it is quite right that it turned out that protecting people from old age poverty because of generations is a major task, which obviously requires solutions that no one has dared to speak about at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U114	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! I will, however, continue on the subject of funded pensions, although you do not want to make any clear points of view until the draft has reached the next stage of the procedure. However, there is something about the principles that you referred to in your answer to the previous question. The question is that, according to government agreements, those who join the second pillar will be able to withdraw 4% of the social tax paid by the employer in the future. The question concerns the principle of equal treatment, the constitutional principle. To what extent is it compatible with the principle of equal treatment that those who join the second pillar have the right to withdraw 4% of the taxes paid, but only those who join the first pillar, i.e. those who do not join the second pillar, do not have this possibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U116	Thank you very much. This is one of the most difficult issues that must be resolved if there is a desire to carry out this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U117	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Also, my appreciation to you, your answers are always very good to listen to, they are clear and concrete and do not get emotional. Now to my question. I ask because similar examples are more and more frequent. It's a raven attack on sheep. The picture is very ugly: the sheep has an eye plucked out, a hole in it, the rectum is out for a long time, the tip of the tongue has been torn off. There are children in the family who see it every day. The family has already lost 30 to him this summer and some adult sheep. The Environmental Board refuses to grant permission to shoot ravens. It is required that sheep be taken to the laboratory of the Estonian University of Life Sciences to carry out analyses of whether it is really ravens. The lab analysis showed that they were very likely to be ravens, in addition to which the Environmental Board requires the following analysis, another sheep must be taken...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U119	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U120	...to the country university lab. I understand we have a rising trend in protecting nature, which is not bad in itself, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U121	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U122	I ask for your position as to whether and how we should protect people and their activities in the midst of nature. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U123	Thank you very much. The view has always been that a reasonable balance must be struck between environmental protection and human interests. You can't automatically prefer one to another, no matter what area it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U124	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U125	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Chancellor, thank you also for your work. If all politicians answered the questions just as specifically as you did, then perhaps our policy level would be better. But I read about your report on control of the Defence Forces, specifically one visit to the staff and communication battalion, where you checked the legality of the discipline and the treatment of conscripts. Is this once a year enough for the entire Defence Forces, and what is your plan for next year and for the future in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U126	Thank you very much. In the past few years, there have been more frequent visits to the troops. Our inspection department has an appropriate inspection plan and on this basis, both unannounced and unannounced visits will be made. You're absolutely right, this time we also found out about a really regrettable case. This, I believe, has now found a final solution. But, of course, visits must be made both to inform conscripts about their rights and to see if things are in order. Generally speaking, the rights of conscripts are quite well guaranteed in the Estonian Defence Forces, but there are still concerns and problems. Looks like the most of them are about getting to a doctor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U127	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U128	Good Chancellor of Justice, thank you very much for your presentation and thank you for your work with a sense of mission. You have pointed out in your presentation that all social policy changes must be made without haste in society and must be thoroughly discussed. The right and obligation to make decisions and to create an opportunity rests, of course, with the Riigikogu. In this context, how do you comment on this process that has taken place and which we have heard about, which is planned for the dismantling of the second pillar of the pension? This will be done quickly, the government plans to adopt it in the Riigikogu by the end of this year. We have not seen any analysis of economic or social impacts. Even if they exist, they have not been presented to the public. How do you think this is in line with democratic rule of law and how would you, as Chancellor of Justice, characterize this behaviour?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U129	Thank you very much. As has been said, for a very large number of people and for a very long time, changes need more time and more serious analysis than minor changes. It's obvious. But now, once again, there is really nothing but principles, good regulation and, on the other hand, principles of pension insurance to talk about, because there is no bill. It cannot be ruled out that all these impact analyses are still coming, that the risks that have been discussed will be successfully mitigated and that the Riigikogu will finally adopt this law in full constitutionality. That's what I'd like to hope for as an optimist. You'll all be able to put your shoulders down to make it happen like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U130	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for an interesting presentation and specific answers. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! Thank you very much, Chancellor, for your thorough presentation and your constructive answers to our questions. The Chancellor of Justice is the chief hygiene of the Estonian legal order, in other words, he always helps, always notices and offers a solution. He doesn't spend time showing off empty whistles and self-exposing. Introducing the year of the Chancellor of Justice, Ülle Madise has said in his address: 'The tools entrusted to the Chancellor of Justice by law are optimal for solving many of the people's concerns. If a person is caught by an anti-constitutional law or regulation between the cogs of a state machine, then we will challenge it. A person does not need a lawyer or a burden on the court: a description of his or her concern is enough for us, then we will find out what is legally important and, if necessary, we will finally bring the matter to the Supreme Court. The constitutional rule is often the result of a mistake and is corrected as soon as possible, constitutionality can be restored without long waiting and free of charge for the individual. [---] If the source of a human problem is not an unconstitutional norm, but a mistake by officials, we will try quickly and, if possible, quietly to correct the mistake. Sometimes only a letter or a speech is enough for an official who left the case unsolved. ' When reading the Chancellor of Justice's annual review and listening to his presentation, it is safe to say that there are few authorities comparable to that of the Chancellor of Justice's administration that are so efficiently and consistently able to work in extremely different areas. It is a pleasure to note that social security problems remain the focus of the Chancellor of Justice's attention. His performances and statements reveal the will to always put himself in a needy situation in search of a solution to the problem. That's commendable. The activities of the entire administration are characterised by consistency in the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. In less than a year, many issues have been resolved. Access to public transport is sought, together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Road Administration, whether and how to make buses and trains accessible to wheelchair users. With the arrival of free public transport on the regional routes, both new contracts and transport contracts were awarded. Of course, the cheapest bidder won, which led to the right number of buses being replaced on several routes, and still to the parents who could not get into a wheelchair. It's the same with Elron's replacement buses, where the wheelchair doesn't work. Accessibility to publicly used buildings is also a bright example of the polling stations here, which are still on the agenda. The supervision of the decent treatment of the residents of the institutions is one of the direct tasks of the Chancellor of Justice. The review shows that there is still a shortage of staff, a shortage of money, an outdated infrastructure. Supervisory authorities have been exposed to negligence and unprofessionalism on a number of occasions. In particular, those older people who need outside help with hygiene procedures suffer from a lack of staff. It is in the interests of people and workers living in care homes that carers have the necessary training. By 2020, carers will have to undergo the training of a maintenance worker or receive the profession of a maintenance worker. Workers with good skills can avoid many problems. Although the ideal is still very far from Estonia, the situation in nursing homes is slowly improving. However, if we look at the situation from the perspective of our own carers, we will see that there is an even longer way to go. The referrals to the Chancellor of Justice show that the organisation of social services in Estonia continues to be difficult and the availability of these services causes difficulties. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U132	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U133	In the case of home services, the high cost of services is a major source of concern, which is why people cannot afford them to the extent necessary. However, most elderly people do not have enough pension to pay for living in a nursing home. Looking at Europe, it is strange that care essential to a weak person depends on the economic livelihood of his children and grandchildren. A pension should be enough to feel a little dignified on the evening of life. That is why the European Commission's report has pointed out, on several occasions, the underfunding of our nursing homes, the scarcity of places and the ratio between price levels and average pensions. The review also discusses the need to improve the organisation of work and pay a better wage on the so - called front line, where a person meets the state. A kindergartener, a teacher, a municipal social worker, a good official must be honored. This is where more first-rate workers are needed. It has become clear that the Chancellor of Justice is also prepared to take a stand on issues that are politically complex and can cause attacks in an over-politic atmosphere. As an example, I bring the consequences of organising the supervision of the funding of political parties, namely the adoption of prohibited donations, as well as the consistent work on restrictions on election advertising (this draft has now reached the Riigikogu's process) or the legal assessment of the UN Migration Pact last autumn, as well as the citizenship issues of Abkhazian Estonians. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, and thank you and your office for their well-informed and hearty work. You have maintained a good sense of idealism, which is increasingly scarce in times of comfort and cynicism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U134	Thank you. On behalf of the party of Mikhail Lotman Fatherland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U135	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I am delighted that, at least on some points, there is consensus in the Chamber, and we are all very pleased with both the work of the Chancellor of Justice and the presentation, both its substance and its benevolent tone. However, I regret that this report is only available electronically. I'm an old-school person. I understand that this text is voluminous, but as a brochure it would still be very well read. These problems, which were highlighted in the presentation, are really very important and require solutions. I'm gonna bring out the things that have to do with the election. For example, bail puts small parties in an unequal position, and then there is the problem of circles and referendums. These are all very important issues, but these are the issues that we have to deal with here. The country and the person in this relationship are very important for the weight of the individual. The protection of the rights of a person, a citizen, is very much represented in the work of the Chancellor of Justice. However, I would like to draw attention to one problem. It is normal for law enforcement authorities to use some measures that may be problematic to make their work more effective. It's one power... I don't know, branch. But these aspirations must be balanced by the courts, the Riigikogu and others, as well as the Chancellor of Justice. The presentation was also very well presented, general, very important problems, and individual drastic and even cafka cases were well balanced. Some were completely on the other side of Kafka. I think Kafka would have figured out why this person, who is like dead but really doesn't get a pension, but Kafka would also be hard to understand why he doesn't have to pay taxes. The IRS is always the last institution to accept exclusion. Okay, a few words about language and bureaucracy. It is quite right that our normative acts are often difficult to read. I want to say that bureaucracy and language are linked. Bureaucracy, which is growing, needs complex texts to justify it, which are not always legible and clearly understandable. But there are also objective reasons. Not all things can be expressed in common language. For example, when we talk about legal terms, they are sometimes misleading in common language. Let me give you an example. One of Estonia's best linguists studied the legal document and said that what nonsense, it says, is that there is a land border, but actually there is a river and there is a lake. Aunt Maal and linguist don't understand how it can be on land when there's a lake and a river. But the thing is,'maize land border' is a legal term, we don't have to create a separate river border, a swamp line, etc. There's a sea border and a land border, everyone, all the other borders our law doesn't know. One more thing. I'm asking for three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U136	Yeah, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U137	We often have these bureaucratic institutions because we automatically transpose recommendations from the European Union and other good institutions. But Estonia is a small country, we do not have to copy and create more institutions of every kind. I'll just give you one example of your report. The Paris protocols require a national human rights authority. You need another body with your budget, your staff, etc. I believe that the Chancellor of Justice has so far done quite well with the role of Ombudsman and that human rights in Estonia are quite well protected according to my assessment. Perhaps the last point I want to highlight is the absolutely correct view that we must not be over-regulated. I am absolutely convinced that there must be as little law as possible. But at the same time, it is also important for the other party to fill them as many as possible. There are still shortcomings on the side of its implementation and on the side of its enforcement mechanism. Colleagues Signe Riisalo, Kaja Kallas and others spoke about problems in the family. There's no mechanism to agree before the trial. If there are good people, they agree, but what if one of the spouses is spiteful? I think a country here could have its own capabilities. People who do not care about reprimand and social condemnation would be in a very sensitive situation, because every time they refuse, they should pay a fine. This would be done automatically, administratively. Okay. But once again, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for this presentation and wish for strength and strength for future work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U138	Thank you. Kaja Kallas, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U139	Good manager! Your Honor, Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, first of all, to the Chancellor of Justice for both the presentation and all the work that has been done over the years. The Chancellor of Justice pointed out quite a number of problems that we must bear in mind in our work. First of all, our goal here is to make people's lives better. To do this, we must have the courage to decide and, in doing so, we must rely on the laws and agreed rules, never forgetting that we are doing this for the benefit of the people of Estonia. If it can be seen that the tax system adopted by the government penalises working pensioners, those on parental leave, recipients of redundancy benefits, survivors' pensions, etc., this injustice must be eliminated. If a mistake has been made, it is our duty to correct it. It takes the courage to decide and the will to help people. This brings us to the second point that the Chancellor of Justice emphasised. Namely, so-called "frontier officials', their lack and lack of remuneration. These are logo beets, specialists, supporters, carers, officials who communicate with people every day and deal with their concerns. This feeling of deprivation, the feeling that a person is alone with his problems, is a big problem. This will increase disappointment in the country and exclusion from the country. The law says how it's supposed to be. A person has rights, but it's like no one hears him. Instead of finding these donkey honeys, those who actually help people solve everyday problems, the government is working on the creation of an internal defence reserve of dubious value. We hope that the budget presented to the Riigikogu next week will provide for the training of additional support specialists and the salary of the so-called frontier officials. The Chancellor of Justice also pointed out a major problem in our society, namely, for children from broken families. In addition to supporting children, our policy must be to keep good families. Yes, there are different families, there are traditional families, there are honeycomb families, there are single-parent families, and not all mothers and fathers stay together. But it must be ensured that children do not suffer as much as possible and that human relations suffer as little as possible. Mr Lotman said earlier that indeed, if people are spiteful, this problem cannot be solved by the state. Yes, we cannot solve it, but we can still foresee that people will not go to court at all, because now I am talking as an ex-law lawyer when people are already going to court, it is impossible that they can reach an agreement in such a way that they can move on happily. Therefore, this parental conciliation procedure, before going to court, to find ways that they would not get into such a fight that children would suffer, I think, must. The child needs both parents even when the parents are separated. As a society, we need to talk more about the child suffering the most if he or she does not see his or her parents. How can we help children and families who are already in this situation? In providing solutions, it is the duty of all of us to use a beautiful clear and correct Estonian language, both when adopting laws and when communicating with people. And finally. We in the Riigikogu should, in my opinion, be guided by the advice of the Chancellor of Justice to trim himself in a good way. I quote: 'Let us recognize all those who speak logical, honest, and clear, and whose actions are in harmony with the story. And, therefore, let us slander those who, in the name of a small personal victory, allow lowliness, boredom, laziness, lying, twisted truth, and exploitation of people. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U140	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U141	On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, too, thanks to the Chancellor of Justice, for a number of reasons. Firstly, it is a good indicator that the number of complaints has increased. People have the courage to address their concerns to the Chancellor of Justice, so they get good answers, get thorough answers. Secondly, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for not turning the opposition into a maze. The parties who are in opposition will inevitably feed on criticism amplify it, whether it be the address of the National Audit Office or the Chancellor of Justice, and they will do so, as I have heard from previous speeches, very arbitraryly and in the light of the party's discretion. Thank you, too, for continuing to be cross-party, although the opposition, of course, is always trying to get in the way of the critics of society with its own personal interests. The confrontation between justice and justice will, of course, persist, and the various parties will try to reduce this confrontation in different ways. Let us look at the basis of legislation. It talks about inclusion, it talks about impact analysis, these are very everyday concepts, it says that impact analysis is necessary. But let us look at this saying that Parliament's role is constantly decreasing, that more analytical units are needed here, we need more staff to use to carry out these analyses. For some reason, we do not make these political choices and we cannot agree for some reason. What we are talking about is that family care needs more money, we are talking about health care needs more money, we are talking about social work needs both and so much more resources, but the tax burden is, for some reason, decreasing. We do not want to reform the tax system, although we want to offer a great deal of benefits, that is what all parties want. We will avoid this debate, too. So the idea that words and deeds don't come together unfortunately applies to many political parties. I think that perhaps a new form of cooperation should be found here, not so that the Chancellor of Justice comes here once a year, and each party then goes to reflect its concerns and amplify its problems, so what to do then. When I read the Chancellor of Justice's speech last year, I saw that there were some problems. I do not see that much has moved things forward, and the five political parties who belong here would be very concerned about what was said here a year ago. Worries may be reflected here in days, two or three, and life goes on again. I think there may be some signs of a political crisis here. The opposition and coalition have become too strong to find cross-party solutions. If we want to increase Parliament's role, improve the quality of legislation, then choices must also be made in terms of resources. If we really want to offer a better policy, then greater changes in tax reform will also have to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-17_U142	Thank you. The political groups have no more wish to negotiate. I thank all those who have taken part in the debate, I thank the Chancellor of Justice once again. Today's trial is over. Colleagues, I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.07 p.m.
