ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our three-day briefing. First, please check your presence! There are 46 people present, 55 missing. Today, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg and Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas participate in Question Time. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask questions to ministers. First, the registered questions will be asked, after which the questioner will have the opportunity to ask one specific question and another from the floor. The time to ask a question is two minutes, and I urge you to stick to it! The ministers have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U2	And let's get to the questions. The first question is the question of Kaja Kallas, Minister of Justice Raivo Aegile. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Jürgen, will you get away from me and the minister? Thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that as Minister of Justice you have defended the Attorney General and the Prosecutor's Office against the attacks of your government partner, the EKRE. At the same time, it is clear from the statements made by all government partners that it is difficult, if not impossible, for the government to decide on the appointment of the Attorney General. But the deadline for the attorney general's term of office is approaching dangerous speed. If the government fails to make this decision by 31 October and fails to appoint the Prosecutor General of Lavly Perling and therefore continues to act as the Prosecutor General, what guarantees do he and the Prosecutor's Office guarantee that the Acting Prosecutor General will not be subjected to political pressure? In essence, this is a situation where the Minister of Justice, who is in office, can dismiss the Prosecutor General at any time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U4	Thank you for your question and thank you for your recognition. I must start by saying that I continue to take the same view as I have been saying so far: Mrs Lavly Perling has successfully managed the administration of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the entire prosecution system. The priorities that have been set before the prosecutor's office have either been realised or, at least, put into work. They've been seriously invested in dealing with them. Indeed, it is inevitable, it is the fact that at the end of next week the time frame is shrinking and Lavly Perling has the last day of his first term of office. As of today, it has to be said that there has been no consensus in the government that Lavly Perling will continue as Prosecutor General. At the same time, the government's organisational principle remains that government decisions must be taken by consensus and by general approval. So it is quite likely that, after 31 October, Lavly Perling must, at least for some time, continue to act as the Attorney General, because the prosecutor's office cannot fail to take the lead. And from there, the government, of course, comes to me, but in cooperation with the government, to find a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U5	Thank you. Echo Kallas, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U6	Thank you for that answer. But the question is, if he's an actress, you'll admit that he'll probably be an actress at some point, how to protect him from political pressure. What guarantees are there for him and the prosecutor's office that whatever he does in his work, he will not be put under any pressure? I ask you this, especially given that your coalition partner has said that the DA's office needs blood exchange and the DA's office cannot handle things. However, the other half of the question is this: did you agree with the assessment that the prosecutor's office has failed? You can also respond from a positive point of view to the achievements of the prosecutor's office that you are most proud of.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U7	I certainly do not agree with the argument that the prosecutor's office has failed to carry out its duties or the duties imposed on it by law, or, let us say, the setting of priorities as politically defined by the Riigikogu. I am thinking in particular of the cooperation format that has been in force for years. In my opinion, a document such as the 'Laulasmaa Declaration', which was written by the then Minister for Home Affairs and Justice, dates back to 2005. It set common priorities, common understandings of the crimes to be dealt with, in particular, by the prosecutor's office and the law enforcement authorities. And basically, the same arrangement has been in place until today. These politically agreed priorities have been priorities for both the prosecutor's office and the law enforcement authorities. So it's worked, and I don't have any complaints to the DA's office. On the contrary, the current Attorney General has actually seen a major initiative in organising the work of the prosecutor's office, particularly in the fight against crime and, to a very significant extent, the fight against organised crime. I remember well from my period of office how, on the initiative of the current Attorney General, very clear priorities and targets were established years ago with the Central Criminal Police to effectively complete the work so that it would end with a court settlement. And there have been many other things that we've been talking about here. Similarly, measures to prevent crimes committed by minors and against minors have been highlighted very clearly in the prosecutor's office. The emphasis has been placed on reducing procedural time limits to a very significant extent. On average, in the last five years, the time limits for proceedings before the courts have been shortened twice. More has been done to reduce the procedural time limits for juvenile-related crimes. Similarly, the protection of victims' rights has been considered to be very important. The Public Prosecutor's Office has a separate state prosecutor who deals with the protection of the rights of victims. So the necessary steps have been taken very, very much, and I will, looking five years ago, give a very positive opinion on the work of the entire prosecutor's office, of course, also the prosecutor general in the role of head.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U8	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! In fact, in this House, we are following with concern the trends that are evident in the choice of our Attorney General. All the more reason to acknowledge your determination to defend the current Attorney General. I really do not think that this is very easy to do, especially because your partners are not very determined. The Prime Minister's speeches on this subject have become very soft in recent days. I am referring here to some of the interviews the Prime Minister has given on this matter. In this Chamber, we have heard the speeches made by Ministers Helmete, in particular, I am thinking of the speeches made by the President of the party, and we have the impression that they are very upset that the prosecutor's office is, as if, conducting its investigations on certain issues in a relatively biased way. My question in this light is as follows. Is it not, in fact, the fact that Marti Kuusik was still the subject of proceedings to support Lavly Perling behind this negative attitude? After all, the remote was said several times that do not expect it or be premature. Could that be one of the reasons why today we have reached such a stalemate? And generally, I don't think it makes much sense that one country has a temporary attorney general.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U10	Thank you for your question. I understand that this is such a provoking question. But I don't know what to say. We have not discussed whether one or the other fact has shaped our coalition partner's attitude. We know that, in fact, already during the coalition negotiations, the Conservative People's Party was very keen to pay special attention over the next few years to ensuring the effectiveness of the justice system's work. Well, political perceptions and attitudes may differ. It's perfectly natural that they're different. And little of the fact that they differ from person to person, they can very clearly differ from party to party. So, yes, I don't know what exactly is behind their decision and whether there are any specific or personal motives. This can be offered to you by our colleagues or your colleagues in this Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U12	Next, Indrek Saar asks and answers the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U13	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. I must admit that it is undiagnosed to me that you support the idea of looking for ways in which the National Opera and the ERSO would receive modern working conditions in the city hall. All the more so, there is a degree of cultural policy continuity in this too, because as the previous minister, I supported this idea as well, and I proposed it as well. We also discussed the composition of the previous Riigikogu in the Committee on Culture. As is always the case for large and large projects and for seeking synergies, there are nuances, but overall there seemed to be a significant consensus in the Commission that progress could be made on this path. I know you were planning on discussing this in the government, but I think it was delayed. The public has signalled that one of the representatives of the city of Tallinn has categorically ruled out any more in-depth discussions on this subject. He personally and he claims the city is against it. So, what's the score? Is it hopeless, or is there hope? And what are you going to do to get on with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U14	Dear questioner, thank you for your good word. Indeed, there are two major reasons why the needs of the city hall and the opera theatre could be combined. One is that the current state of the city hall is sad and is in a very visible place in the capital of the Republic of Estonia. It is part of a seaside view of our capital, and there should be something decent. Descending colossus certainly does not exist, is rather a stain of shame. So sooner or later, we're gonna have to do something about the city hall. And the second is really the need to find a new home for the opera and ballet productions of the Estonian theatre. In 1913, Estonia was opened as a talk theatre and modern operas and ballet productions are not in good condition. We are a nation with a very high music culture, quite well known for musical culture. For this reason, one of the symbolic objects could be prominently present in the capital plan. What's behind it? As usual, discussions take a long time, and this is a big project. The question of heritage protection is at stake here; it is undoubtedly a question of financing and also a question of rationality. We need to reach a common position on what will happen. We know that the city of Tallinn has planned to establish a conference centre there with the help of the state, but it does not offer a solution to the large hall. If you know what's going to happen in the future, then you can start doing projects. In the current situation, the financial cost and the administrative burden involved are not exactly clear. All these questions must be answered. In particular, I do not know the justification for the statements made by Tallinn's assistant mayor Riisalu, but the city of Tallinn has been informed for a long time, as well as the new mayor or when he is now new. As an assistant mayor, he was also familiar with cultural and educational issues as a responsible person in this field. As mayor, he's involved in all the discussions, and by next week I have an appointment with him to consult. So the city of Tallinn is involved, and we will continue with all good partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U15	Thank you. A question to be specified, Indrek Saar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U16	Yes, indeed, following the statements made by Aivar Riisalu, you can see that at least this is a bit of a hoax. He has argued, among other things, that if a country has EUR 120 million to build an opera theatre, two theatres could be built at any location. Estonia Theatre has ordered an estimate of the cost of an opera theatre when building a separate house. The most optimistic estimate is 200 million plus something else. Let it be said here too that this joy is not so cheap. As a result, there should also be a great deal of effort to find synergies. Indeed, perhaps we are not rich enough to build a separate opera theatre, build a separate concert house, build a separate conference centre. Finding synergies, seeking optimal solutions should be a very sensible and indispensable way for us. I still come back to the fact that Deputy Mayor Riisalu has announced that the government should have discussed the city first, but it has not been done. Is Deputy Mayor Riisalu lying or has he not been informed? And two: Deputy Mayor Riisalu reports that the city has certain plans, but they cannot be disclosed because of the question of the upcoming opera house. If the city has a plan, maybe they shouldn't be hindered by the last one of it. What do you think of these two things?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U17	Thank you for your question. What do I think? Tallinn is a big city. Information from one corner to another may be moving slower than elsewhere. But I'm sure the government is involved in the debate. The mayor is very familiar. The previous mayor was also aware and will certainly keep an eye on this information as a member of the government. So without the city of Tallinn, we can't do this thing, we can't do it. I would point out that whatever comes into this city hall place, this operation needs the support of the state. After all, the current conference centre plan has already received support from the state in the beginning in the sense that, if it goes on, the state will contribute tens of millions to it. No matter what plan the city of Tallinn and the entrepreneurs do not have, without the state it will not work because the volumes are so large. For this reason, a good partnership is certainly essential. Looking at the state, I can say that I think the deputy mayor has so much work that he has not been informed of all things. But the mayor will teach him. As for the new plans, I haven't heard from them. There may also be something to do with the additional interest of private operators. If the subject has already been raised, why not bring your own ships to the port and allow the conference centre to be made, etc. In my opinion, the support of private operators or rather not the support, but such a cooperation project would be very welcome. It would be good for the government to discuss public and private finance joint projects on several fronts, which require large-scale investment. Without the state's large participation, no private operator will do anything there, at least as long as this building is up there and under the protection of heritage. I think that the solution to the opera and concert hall is one of the most perspective of the proposed ones. I have not heard any alternative proposals of the same seriousness.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U18	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! When I listened to you, in a way, I had a clear feeling that there were good plans and that the country and Tallinn were finally about to find a solution to this quite long saga. We have been following the local government elections over long decades, and we have all noticed that the solution of this problem by the mayors has become extremely visible in Tallinn before the elections, but it has kind of faded. I have not liked such a thing, and I am certainly in favour of a solution finally being found in cooperation with the country. One of the solutions proposed relates to the conference centre. Businesses would build it and the state would come to the aid. It's like it's cheaper financially. Can you tell me where this communication problem came from today? Listening to your answers, there is a clear impression that this plan has been made aware and that everyone could move in one direction. Although it has been announced in the press that if the opera house comes to it, then the aid should be applied for again because the application submitted does not contain it. And that could give rise to another procedure of about 15 years. So there's no way we're gonna get this thing done. As minister today, do you sincerely believe in the possibility of solving this saga? Tallinn alone has not done this. Or is it a battle with windmills?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U20	Thank you for a very good question. The city of Tallinn is the owner of the complex and is applying for a State aid permit from the European Commission for further investments. Indeed, it has not yet come. During the summer there was an opinion that so far or, let's say, the old commission would come off. As far as I know, it hasn't come. But one way or another, of course, if plans change capitalically, a new application must be made, but then it will certainly be easier to obtain this permit, because the building is essentially related to public or public interests. So I think there really must be some time to take into account, but there shouldn't really be any problems with this permit in the new circumstances. At the same time, it has been said by the city that there is no complete solution to the large hall so far. The idea of the conference centre is very good and Tallinn needs a proper conference centre. As well as contributing to the repetition of a large hall, there are no opera shows or ballet shows every day and there can also be conferences, both smaller and larger. There is a lack of this possibility in Tallinn; there is a shortage in all of Estonia. That would be a very good solution. So let's combine different functions. As Indrek Saar said, there is much to be done. This is where the ERSO and other concert collectives can transfer their concert activities from opera performances we already talked about, conferences we talked about. In this environment, it is certainly fun to carry out all sorts of activities. So let's hope it doesn't take decades, and we can actually do something about it in this collapsing and cracking city hall through the water.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U22	The next questioner is the Anti Division, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U23	Prime Minister! This is a very turbulence period in relations between the European Union and Great Britain. My question is how the Government of the Republic intends to take measures to protect the interests of Estonian citizens during the forthcoming period of divorce and instability. This has a strong impact on the relations between Britain and the countries that remain in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U24	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. Yes, you are right: it is indeed a very complex and turbulencey period ahead. Things change not in weeks, but in days. We see, in fact, that the votes make the positions change in hours. What are our interests and desires? Of course, Estonia's priority is that the rights of our citizens are guaranteed in the process of exiting the United Kingdom from the European Union, that the interests of our entrepreneurs are protected. It's important to us. On the other hand, what happens after Brexit is also important. We want to maintain close relations with Britain in the economy, foreign policy as well as security and defence. Estonia's interest is certainly that the unity of the 27 countries in the process of leaving the European Union in Great Britain remains. When it comes to the impact of the process on the people of Estonia, on our people, we need to look at two possible solutions. One is when Brexit takes place on a contract basis, and the other is when Brexit takes place without a contract. Now the preparations that have been made in Estonia. The areas most affected have been re-examined in September-October: citizens, customs, medicines, entrepreneurs, preparedness. Interest groups have been informed: transit carriers, other companies, chambers of commerce, tourism companies, airport and the general public. The ministries will certainly inform their target groups and try to ensure a smooth transition. Increased awareness-raising through the media will be launched once Brexit has been identified. Last night's votes in London showed that if there is more agreement on content, then there is no agreement on the time frame. This has once again raised the question of whether or not additional time will be granted for the changeover. And if they do, how much. My own feeling is that in any case, we should do everything we can to get Brexit under contract. The higher additional funding needs for Brexit preparation have not been foreseen by the ministries, but may arise on an ongoing basis. I am thinking of the development of information technology, the customs regime, information activities and certainly additional visits to Britain. As far as domestic proceedings are concerned, the Riigikogu adopted legislative amendments on citizens' rights on 21 February this year. They apply when the United Kingdom leaves the European Union. And, as far as I know, there is also an amendment to the Traffic Act in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, which I think will be finally coming to your desk by the end of October.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U25	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U26	Thank you, Prime Minister. My question concerns Brexit very much, but Estonian citizens in general do. On Monday, your government minister, Kert Kingo, answered questions from members of the Riigikogu. Among other things, he spoke of Jakko Välja, a candidate who had not become his adviser, and made allegations concerning his contacts with Jakko Välja. He didn't have any contacts. He also claimed that the ministry had not taken any steps in this regard. Consequently, I have a very simple question. Have you been informed that the minister may have lied to the Riigikogu in some part on Monday? Or have you not been informed of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U27	Thank you. First of all, I'm going to start with what really meant that this citizen doesn't become a minister's advisor. The statements he wrote on social media do not suffer any criticism, and they are certainly unambiguously condemnable. I've been in contact with the minister and I've asked if it's true that Jakko Field is not going to be his advisor. He said yes, that's right. Now the question is whether the Minister has given false information, incomplete information or lied directly to the Riigikogu, as you asked. I haven't talked to him about it today. But, of course, I saw the news today that had to do with the presentation before a committee. I'm sure I'll be discussing these questions with him in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U28	Thank you. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U29	Thank you. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! I will continue on the subject raised by Mr Ossinovski, because I also asked the Minister a question about this, but in fact there was no answer. I got the answer to go ask Jakko Field yourself, you've never been to the same party. Like it's a matter of concern. My question to you is: will you now ask your minister who is lying to whom? Answering my question, he made it look like Jakko Field was lying. I would like to find out whether the Minister has proposed to become his advisor to the Jakko Field or whether Jakko Field made it up himself, as the Minister gave us in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U30	Thank you. I'm sure we need to figure that out. You're asking me if I'm going to talk to him about this. I also answered the previous question put by Mr Ossinovski that, of course, I will. Of course, we need to get the picture straight. It seems to interest the Riigikogu. And then there's an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U31	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U32	The next question is Jürgen Ligil, answered by Minister of Justice Raivo Time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U33	Thank you. Mr. Minister! A day will not pass again if your dear coalition partner party, Helme, is not in your administration. He'll tell you what the DA's office needs to investigate and what he can't investigate. He's already saying who's to be convicted. And in the light of all this, he's reporting blood to be exchanged at the D.A.'s office. In the case of judges, he wasn't talking about blood exchange, he was talking about head-flying. Tell me why you put up with this. Why don't you take the floor to protect your administration more widely than in this briefing? And why do you accept that the Prime Minister is watching this in silence?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U34	Thank you for your question. Good Jürgen, I do not quite agree with the claim that our coalition partners from the EKRE or the Helme family, as you have mentioned, are working under the administration of the Ministry of Justice. I'm sure they won't be there. However, yes, they have quite actively spoken in a number of areas, including the Ministry of Justice, and have expressed their views. I firmly state, and I will stick to, that in very many things our views are divided and that they remain divided. My views and my values do not match our coalition partners' views on a number of issues. But, as far as the coalition is concerned, compromises must be found. Sometimes unpleasant arguments-saying-replyings must be swallowed and found ways to carry on your tasks and move forward from your positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U35	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U36	Thank you. However, I say that the Minister must defend his administration if it is harmed. I've always done it myself. It doesn't matter whether the opposition or the coalition behaves badly, but lately the coalition does so all the time. The Public Prosecutor's Law says that the Attorney General's candidate will be elected by the Minister of Justice. You basically haven't picked him out. Today, you have said something about internal procedures within the government, which is not an argument for the public and does not help the law enforcement system in any way. Please tell me what are, in addition to the procedures, the substantive reasons why Lavly Perling cannot be presented! You've been suggesting he's your favorite. Neither the opposition nor any other party must have its own candidate It's absurd that there's talk at all about whether or not we're presenting ourselves as political parties as the Attorney General. What are the substantive reasons why Lavly Perling hasn't been to the government meeting yet? Let's put the procedure aside.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U37	I can answer that basically, I have chosen my candidate and he has also proposed. However, I have not done this formally. By formality, I mean that I have not taken my candidate to the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee, who, according to the law, has to listen to the candidate before his or her confirmation of a specific post goes to the government. The opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs must be heard first. I have explained several times why I have not done so: because making this decision in the government requires the consensus of all sections of the government. At the moment, we do not have that consensus. Consequently, I have not considered it humane, or especially from the point of view of Lavly Perling, to bring him before the Committee on Legal Affairs. I'm sure that's where we can get a positive assessment of Lavly Perling's candidacy. However, it is not possible that there will be a consensual decision within the government. In my opinion, this would be unfair to a particular person and would not turn out to be good.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U38	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I very much like the stoic peace you are trying to communicate with us here in the Riigikogu, even on such a difficult subject. It's good to see you. Unfortunately, we have not experienced this in the case of any other ministers. I recall the words of Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, that if anyone tries to reverse the current coalition, see what happens. I don't know if he meant that people come out on the street and start smashing or something. In the same way, he has chastised Members of Parliament. A good colleague Jürgen thought that the Minister of the Interior might be working in your field. At times, it seems more reasonable to move to another place and divert attention to cover up your activities. But that's my concern. As a minister, do you consider such behaviour to be dignified and right and credible that the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia is threatening MEPs from this very point of view, that if everything does not go exactly as he sees it, then things will happen that we do not even want to see in our dreams? How do you feel about this increasing credibility in justice and public order? After all, we want to be a democratic and transparent state. How safe should citizens feel in such a country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U40	Thank you for your question. I cannot in any way support the fact that the public is threatened with any inconvenience in the Riigikogu's premiere. It just doesn't fit, whether it's a minister, a member of the government or of the Riigikogu or whoever. Overall security, an attempt to ensure overall security, a common good for all of us, must be an unmistakable obligation for all politicians and officials who are under legal or moral obligation to protect this good. So I cannot understand or support the attitude you referred to here. I haven't heard it myself, but I'm going to follow your description. It should not be in private life either, that if we do not achieve any of our desires, we will somehow threaten the other side or other people around us with some big, big, global inconvenience. We don't usually do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U42	Next, Helmen Kütt asks and answers Minister of Justice Raivo Time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U43	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, My question is certainly not a surprise to you. I, too, would like to ask you about the situation that governs your administration. I can imagine how you feel in a government hearing. I've been a minister myself. All of this, however, is included in the salary of the ministers when they accept the profession. I have a question about how you feel about Lavly Perling. Have you spoken to him? And how does the public feel about this situation where the appointment of the Attorney General cannot be resolved? How is it viewed in our country as well as elsewhere? Have you spoken to Lavly Perling herself? I wouldn't know how to keep working in his role.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U44	Thank you for your question. Yes, the claim that one or the other inconvenience is included in the salary, I have heard many times in my life on previous posts, and I took it into account when I accepted the post, including when I became a member of the Government of the Republic. I've met Lavly Perling many times. We have been completely open to each other without any tricks, honest and open, and we have discussed possible perspectives. Lavly Perling has firmly told me that if the government had reached a consensus decision to support her, she would be interested in continuing as the state attorney general. As regards his continuation in the duties of the Attorney General, we have not had long discussions about this. We have both been in good faith and hoped that we would come to a solution according to which Mrs Perling would continue on her post during the next five-year period. We'll be able to talk about this in a week. However, as far as Mrs Perling is concerned, I think she feels quite deeply disturbed by the unwarranted attention, the many unfounded arguments and accusations that have been made to her and which are not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U45	Thank you. Specific question, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U46	Thank you. Now I have a question of a completely different area, but still of your administrative nature. When the previous Minister of Justice gave an overview of his work here a year ago, I was honored to hear it, he said a great deal about the change in the provision of maintenance money, there will be a bill that goes to the coordination circle. You probably know that the maintenance allowance is still being granted in such a way that, for example, 50% of the minimum wage is used to calculate income support if a person has not gone to court or has not been appointed in court. In court too, 50% of the minimum wage is very often taken as a basis. It is true that the court sometimes gives reasoned decisions when evidence is produced. But it has raised a lot of questions in society. How far is the bill for a living? I understand that you also have other tasks, perhaps because of the previous question. But from the point of view of work on the ground, it is very important, in fact, that there are a large number of people who are exposed to this problem. It is very important to be able to find out in the house how the maintenance allowance will be awarded in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U47	Thank you. Indeed, the provision of child maintenance allowance and the real availability of this money are crucial and priority issues in society as a whole. Far from the specific bill you were talking about here, the Ministry officials are, in this respect, I am indebted to the answer at the moment, but I will find out. I will certainly let you write or speak to you in any way that suits you, we will agree to respond. However, in general, maintenance money is also a very important topic for discussion in the implementation of changes related to our executive reform. We have seriously considered how to better motivate executives to demand a living allowance. At present, it is essentially a loss-making task for executive officers. The so-called resource and the contribution they place there do not correspond to the outcome of the procedure. We will certainly come up with a proposal that the state should somehow subsidise shareholders in the collection of maintenance claims. With this, we hope to improve compliance with these requirements. But it is a proposal for the future and a debate for the future. But we're pretty serious about the maintenance issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U48	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U49	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Riigikogu committees have discussed the fundamentals of legal policy in recent weeks. A very good document puts us in the ideal direction to move towards, so that our legislation is really inclusive, predictable, knowledge-based. These are the principles that have been formulated. Impact assessments must be carried out, consideration must be given to whether there is a need for legislative intervention, whether regulation can achieve the desired objectives, whether this intervention is proportionate. If we have discussed this ideal world here, I think we will soon be discussing the draft second pension pillar, which does not really follow any of the principles set out at the beginning of the fundamentals of legal policy. This draft is neither inclusive, predictable nor knowledge-based. Do you think the Riigikogu should discuss a draft that does not actually comply with any legislative principle?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U50	Thank you, good questioner, for the question. This is a very relevant question at this very stage, where indeed the Ministry of Justice or, rather, the Government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, has presented the fundamentals of legislative policy to the Riigikogu for the next ten years. As you rightly pointed out, it is such a strategy vision document. It certainly does not aim to frame one hundred percent of the future ten years of life by how it must proceed, but it sets the goals that we must strive for. These fundamentals of legislation state that, in practice, processes must also take into account the needs of real life. And there are also certain differences in which it is possible to circumvent these general rules. One of the differences highlighted is, for example, the transposition of European Union law, but there are other urgent tasks or urgent problems that need to be resolved through legislation. One of the objectives of setting the objectives set out in the vision is certainly that we have talked a great deal about this, to suppress the prominence of legislation. We all admit that, unfortunately, it's too much. The law could be a very clear document in some area. In addition, there are agreements and relationships that establish life in a normal society. However, this too is an ideal that we are striving for. In real life, however, things have often been solved by this, we solve not the slightest problem, but sometimes we do have a problem that could have been solved in other ways, again with the law of amending the law. Yeah, I got a little off the subject. But let's see! When this draft of the second pillar of the pension comes into operation, the Riigikogu will be able to express its attitudes and views very clearly when dealing with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U51	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U52	Next, Signe Riisalo asks and answers the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U53	Thank you, good manager. Minister of Culture! The Estonian public has recently repeatedly rejoiced in the excellent achievements of disabled people in the title competitions. At the same time, we also know that our highly successful wheelchair users have had to give up competing for lack of money in some sports. The sport of disabled people is now in the realm of the Ministry of Culture, like the sport of all other people, and I must admit that it is very positive. But I would like to know what the Ministry of Culture's lines of work are to ensure, in addition to excellence, secondary growth, the general activity of people with disabilities and access to sport. I am thinking of funding, as well as the organisation of all this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U54	Honourable questioner! Yes, the Ministry of Culture is responsible for the physical movement of people, certain parts of the work of healthy movement, and we do so according to specific needs. I do not see that, for example, in the movement of sports clubs, which the Ministry of Culture participates in, money could not be allocated to anyone who deals with it. Some sports clubs also deal with people with disabilities or, let's say, special needs. They have opportunities to apply for money. One concrete example is that the Ministry of Culture was thanked in the spring for supporting the purchase of sailboats that can be used by underdogs who cannot handle traditional sailboats. We will continue these projects. We are drawing up a sports development plan and there is a clear emphasis on the creation of mobility opportunities for all groups of the population, including people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U55	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U56	Thank you. I'm glad you mentioned the purchase of sailboats. Indeed, two sailboats adapted to the disabled have been purchased. The promotional events have been conducted over a year or more throughout the summer, I have participated in them myself. But there's a lack of everyday training. Its financing and organisation is costly and resource-intensive, also on the coach side. Have you considered any new measures, such as a measure that if a sports club takes people with disabilities and creates the necessary conditions for their exercise, it is something specially supported? This could perhaps be more financially supported than sports for ordinary children or adults.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U57	Thank you. I have not personally had any contact with the details of this subject, but I also expect coach training to include, as part of the differences in coaching for young people, children and adults with different needs. It is right, however, that those taking the lead in providing guidance to disabled people could benefit from benefits in their activities. After all, incentives have also been offered to entrepreneurs who employ people with disabilities. That could be normal. I will make this point clear to myself, but I think that the directions you referred to are perfectly logical and must be implemented.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U58	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is also about opportunities for people with special needs to participate in sport. We had a meeting with the Sport Support Group on the subject. It's known that troubles are starting from school. The school is part of the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research and it is generally assumed that a child with reduced mobility, such as a wheelchair-cuffed student, will not participate in physical education class. It's kind of normal. Jüri Jaanson, a good co-worker, gave us some very interesting examples of how he had simply been left on the edge of the field during the competitions. And then George said if you take his team, you'll have me with you. Here's my question. Since sport is also in your administration, could you not work with the Ministry of Education and Research to reach out to students with special needs to participate in sports classes? They should not be specialized groups, they should be with others, and coaches and teachers would be able to involve them. Then there would be no alienation and the abilities of these students would develop, in which they would be able to participate in daily gymnastics classes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U60	Thank you. The main difficulty in this question is the teaching methodology for school hours. One reason for maintaining separate schools for children and young people with special needs is that they feel well in the environment they apply, under the hands of specially trained teachers and among their peers. They feel that they are meant for, have their own success experiences and sports activities are organised. As a former Minister for Education, I know that such schools have specifically developed mobility activities that can be achieved by those who grew up in a particular school, and this is one of the great advantages of these schools. If we integrate children with special needs into mainstream schools, all this responsibility must be transferred. It is clear that training such a child in regular school needs to be more funded, needs some pedagogical help, which must also be available in physical education classes and physical exercise at all, as well as in various group classes, such as school clubs. In general, I believe that you rightly pointed out that a student with special needs should also be able to feel like a full-scale person in a regular school. He's got to feel like he's a subject and he's got to be busy all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U61	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U62	Next, Jevgeni Ossinovski asks and answers Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U63	Honourable Minister of Justice! A lot has already been asked about this, so I'm going to continue with the DA's office. I understand your answers to the previous questions that you have failed to comply with the law of the prosecutor's office, after all, the law of the prosecutor's office requires you to propose to the government that you do not want to create a humane situation. You would propose by law, but it is known in advance that this will not work in the government. I understand that basically. But certainly, in an unpleasant way to the Attorney General, it has now happened that you are in a situation where you have not complied with the law and one of the most important institutions in your administration will soon be left unmanageable. Could you enlighten the members of the Riigikogu a little? The Helme family has been talking for a long time about not supporting Lavly Perling's candidacy, and they have also, for a certain time, made a statement that they will present their alternative candidates. Recently, one of these family representatives said that he had not, however, put forward these proposals, at least not publicly. Since, unlike yours, his credibility is doubtful in my eyes, I ask: have the representatives of the EKRE appointed a candidate who you have not accepted at the meetings where you have discussed the question of the Attorney General? Or have such proposals not actually been made, so simply the process has been deliberately stretched? I do not, of course, want to know the names, but simply ask whether such proposals have been made. Has there been an attempt to seek an agreement or has the process been deliberately delayed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U64	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U66	Thank you for your question. I'll start at the end. It's easy to answer. I have not received any proposals from our coalition partner concerning a specific person who they consider to be a suitable candidate for the position of prosecutor general. As far as my omissions are concerned, I admit that, indeed, I have not yet submitted to the Government of the Republic or to the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu a candidate for the Prosecutor General, even though the law requires it. But I certainly am not going to fail to comply with the law. I'm sure I'm following the law, and this legal procedure will be done at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U67	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U68	Thank you for that last answer. But I'm going to ask that we don't get stuck in the procedure story. After all, my first question was on the same subject that Evgeni asked about. Would you be willing to take the first steps to defend your administration more strongly than in this Chamber? And secondly, would you be willing to present this candidate to the Legal Affairs Committee for discussion? These would be positive steps that would allow the party Helme to remain alone in the public eye with the intention that anyone, but not your candidate, Perling, will be qualified as the attorney general. That's what they say. Anyone, as long as it's not Lavly Perling. I think anyone's wrong. I'm not here to name my candidate or my favorite, even though it coincides with yours. Tell me, can you take these steps?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U69	Thank you. I have so far directed my actions towards achieving results rather than just speaking. I don't think anyone's good enough to be the Attorney General either. It must meet quite a number of criteria that apply to professional skills in terms of its personal characteristics, its knowledge, its competence. Similarly, it must have certain personal qualities; it must be a good partner for its colleagues. It must also have sufficient managerial experience, because it is a rather large organisation which, to a large extent in our society, fulfils the duties of the so-called Rule of Law Guard. This work is not easy at all. One might think that there are not many people in the DA's office who need to be specifically run, albeit many. But the scope of these tasks is certainly much wider and the focus of their work is very important. In total, the so-called "real prosecutors" are just under 200, but there are also assistant prosecutors and various service staff.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U70	Thank you. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U71	Thank you. Good minister! I come back to the question of Riina Sikkut, concerning good legislative practice and the second pillar. You rightly pointed out that in certain cases this practice could be deviated from, for example, when it comes to transposing European Union legislation or when it is otherwise urgent. The second pillar is neither one nor the other. This is not a result of European Union law, and it is certainly not urgent. I understand that this government will take decisions by consensus. If the government were to submit this draft, would you be willing to support it as a member of the government, although it is clear that good legislative practice has not been followed? Or if the Government of the Republic expresses its position on this draft, will you be willing to support it even if a political group has submitted the draft, knowing that it does not actually follow good legislative practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U72	Thank you. Of course, it is important to be very clear about the circumstances. As I pointed out earlier, there are exceptions. And urgency is the one that justifies them. While you claim that this is not urgent, the aim is that the act can begin at the beginning of the year after that, i.e. on 1 January 2021. This is a very broad bill for a social group. And certainly, I am already forecasting, the debate on this draft will also receive quite a lot of attention in this Parliament and will generate important debates. After all, this is a bill that concerns not only specific people who have joined the second pillar, but more generally the whole of society. Tax law measures are also at issue very clearly. Similarly, the draft law concerns banks and pension funds in one way or the other. In this sense, the sooner this law enters into force, the better. Finally, it must be clear what is really the purpose of the law and what is happening as a result. This must be made clear to a wide range of stakeholders. It can be said that, in this sense, it is still an urgent bill. We do not have more than a year and a few months to do so if we want to implement it at the time indicated. But I'm sure the bill will pass through the interministerial coordination circle. And there is certainly no reason to say that this bill is somehow in darkness or secretly made. After all, there have been quite wide-ranging debates about this, involving various interest groups. Eesti Pank has also only recently expressed its opinion, which has been dealt with differently: it is a study or an opinion. However, the claim that the draft has not received the attention of the public or interest groups that it has not been possible to publish its observations is not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U73	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U74	Next, Toomas asks Kivimägi and answers Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Very respected Minister of Justice! Six months have passed since you, in the Committee on Legal Affairs session, surprised many to begin to defend the partial nationalisation of enforcement proceedings, in view of this very view of your world. If you look at the website of the Ministry of Justice, it turns out that the Government of the Republic actually discussed this issue and gave such a starting point as early as 13 July 2017. More than two years have passed, and where are we today? At the meeting of the Cabinet held on 8 August, it was decided to set up a political group, a very interesting term, not a political group, but a political group. We have talked a lot about the fundamentals of legislative policy, which I did not find in this document. But the Justice Department's website has this term completely in place. For over two years, bailiffs have been ignorant and, in fact, under both covert and direct criticism. After all, the country has justified the need for reform by not being satisfied with the existing system. Looking at such a long pace, I actually feel that maybe it's not a viable task, or rather I don't think it makes sense. In the latter statement, I am relying, among other things, on your own position from this very institution of the Committee on Legal Affairs. You said there: 'The transition to the voluntary bailiff system was right. The private sector is more motivated than public officials to recover debts. ' Teller, I repeat, Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg, date 6 May 2019, Legal Affairs Committee meeting. Why are you breaking your word? Why is there a need for more countries in enforcement procedures, an area where work has actually fallen significantly? You're going to create a parallel system! If there are deficiencies in enforcement proceedings, it is not the responsibility of anyone other than the State to correct these errors.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U76	Thank you for your question. I guess this is where you're going to be, you know, quietly rowing, you're going to get far. Indeed, this problem has been dealt with for a long time. I remember very clearly raising this problem during the previous composition of the Riigikogu, when I myself was a member of the Legal Affairs Committee and several times met and discussed with representatives of bailiffs and the House of Bankruptcy Administrators. In the meantime, the bailiffs were given extra powers, extra tools. They had access to debtors' bank accounts so that they could analyze them so that they couldn't misdirect income. Executors can compare past incomes with incomes received into the account when enforcement proceedings have started. So the State has also provided tools to ensure enforcement procedures. As regards the fact that some piece of work is intended to be handed over to the Tax and Customs Board in the course of changes or reform of the enforcement procedure, the idea is still valid. The same political group you referred to has reached a consensual decision. There is nothing more political about this than there are representatives of three coalition partners in this group. We sat at the table and finally agreed on what steps and principles to take forward. The principle is that the first recovery of public claims must be transferred to the Tax and Customs Board. The funds for public claims are basically received in three places: they are the claims of the PBGB, i.e. mostly traffic penalties, secondly, the claims of the motor insurance fund and, to a very large extent, the fines imposed by the municipal police in Tallinn, i.e. mupo, which are also transferred to enforcement proceedings if they have not been voluntarily paid in due time. The aim is that the requirements of the Tax and Customs Board will, figuratively speaking, go to "machine enforcement." Public claims shall be submitted to the tax administration. If the claim is not satisfied in time, i.e. within the deadline for voluntary payment, the tax office will send written reminders of the same form at a certain time, as for example in the event of non-payment of land tax due. Even if a particular debtor does not respond to this, it will come to the conclusion that a bank account will be seized. If there is nothing to be taken from the bank account and the debtor's physical assets have to be recorded and disposed of, then the matter will move into the hands of bailiffs. The whole process is based on exactly the same principles and the same rhythm as it is today. There is another logic to reform. The aim is to bring the administration of all the state's claims to the Tax and Customs Board in order to have a clear overview of the state's requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U77	Thank you. Thomas Kivimägi, more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U78	Slow down, you'll get far. A very beautiful principle, for me alone, it is completely incomprehensible why it did not apply to the previous question. After all, we are talking about a much more fundamental change than the dismantling of the second pillar. In my opinion, it should take much more time to discuss this than the draft in question. And yet the question is that one of the main arguments why this reform of the enforcement procedure is being made is that the work of the executives has been significantly reduced. Well, my logic doesn't take it into account, how we're gonna increase the load on the loaders, if we're gonna take some more work away from them. I understand the arguments why the state is taking their responsibilities away from them, but if we take their work even less, we will actually increase their problem. And you don't want to hide your head in the sand: in fact, the recovery of state claims is somewhat more profitable, they are clearly easier to access. Here it is like Big Peter and Little Peter's syndrome: the state takes in simpler and more profitable things, less profitable and more complex ones leave to bailiffs. I don't think that's fair. Nor have I seen anywhere an analysis of the fiscal impact of this reform. I've seen how much more money is expected to be paid into the state budget. There has been talk of an amount of EUR 600000. However, the cost of introducing this system, the development of IT systems, has been overlooked. No one wants to talk about it. And it has been overlooked how much this reform will result in less revenue for the country from the current enforcement systems. Currently, the enforcement system brings three and a half million euros to the state budget. Clearly, under the influence of the reform, the country will receive much less money. In my opinion, these are double standards. Once again, the state takes the simplest things into its own hands, and the complex ones leave the fillings.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U79	Thank you. The analysis that has been commissioned on the reform of the enforcement procedure shows the exact opposite. More money will be received by the Treasury than under the current system. The objective of the State is to have a zero fiscal impact. First, of course, investments must be made, but all further enforcement proceedings carried out at the Tax and Customs Board will actually be paid by the debtor. At the same time, the remuneration charged by the State to the debtor to compensate for the execution of the enforcement proceedings is significantly lower than the current remuneration of the executive officer. The state does not need to make a profit on this; it simply wants the costs incurred to be covered. It is estimated that this fee may be tens of times lower if the executor takes it from the debtor. The executives' offices are broadly divided into three. It is very successful to say that, moreover, take the state's requirements away from us. We don't earn anything with them, it's just an extra load. These are offices that have been able to establish a very good relationship with their clients and work very well. They will be approached because they are known to be effective, and enforcement will come. There are middle offices that say let's have these requirements, they're gonna do something because of them. And thirdly, such less successful agencies have survived only because of the state's requirements and staggering. They're the only ones who get public claims. In a sense, there is a struggle, such as being on the verge of life and death, which has led to very serious violations of the law in such offices. More property will be seized than the law has allowed. The Ministry of Justice supervises the activities of the offices and in 2018 the number of such visits was 400. By the beginning of October, there were already 300 visits, where the Ministry of Justice was drawn to the attention of the Ministry of Justice that the work of the executive officer was not satisfied. In one way or another, the executor had gone against his client or exceeded his mandate. That is one very important reason. We want to minimise the number of violations committed by executives and to increase satisfaction with the work of the whole system. The aim is to stop further damage to the reputation of this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U80	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is a great pleasure to see you here. I wanted to ask you Question Time in Section 5, but I couldn't get a shot. So I'm going to ask a slightly different question. In fact, I ask your opinion on bullying in Pärnu. The film evening was held in Pärnu in the framework of the Tempel LGBT festival. A few dozen EKRE supporters gathered at the club's door to express their interest in this film festival. The participants in the festival and the protestors went into a war of speech, and the protestors stared at the participants. I am now quoting Pärnu Postman: 'Shipping is done in the wider government district, it is not the solo of the Pärnumaa district. Aarne Mäe, adviser to the EKRE Group in the Riigikogu, and Daniel Mereäär, chairman of the Saaremaa district of the Party, have taken part in what has happened here. Helle Kullerkup, who can be considered the leader of these spite episodes, is on the board of the party. " Do you think that such action goes against the Constitution as discrimination against a minority group in one society and is therefore punishable?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U82	Thank you for your question. In my opinion, the Constitution does not allow discrimination on grounds of religion, race, language or sexual orientation. On the other hand, the Constitution guarantees freedom of expression. In a specific case, one party very clearly realised its constitutional freedom, wishing to discuss its problems and ways to improve cooperation within its community, how to provide advice, how to find solutions to its problems, based on its sexual orientation. On the other hand, another group, which does not share these values, used the freedom given to it by the Constitution to express its opinion. I didn't realize that there was a violent physical conflict. However, this resulted in both parties expressing their views, so it could only be a element of a word war. It did not escalate into violence, which would clearly have been a violation of public order. Maybe the information I got from a particular paper isn't enough. Maybe there was something else going on. But I didn't specifically delve into this incident or demand any additional material.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U83	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U84	Let us move on to the next question. The questioner is Urmas Kruuse, the replyer is Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! In advance, I'm going to make a remark to your colleague's expression that you're going to make up for your rowing, you're going to get far. I, sitting behind Jüri Jaanson, probably couldn't have given him that recommendation. He wouldn't have gotten anywhere. But maybe it's the other way around in the ministry. Honourable Minister of Culture, I would like to ask about the Capital of Culture of Tartu 2024 [says 'Twenty-Twenty-four']. As a South Estonian and a soul-to-heart Tartian, I am sincerely pleased that this title finally went to South Estonia. In my opinion, the entire team involved will also be strengthened by an agreement with other municipalities, all of whom are willing to contribute to the operation. Of course, this culture and the skills that exist in South Estonia are worth a wider audience. We are not worried that we have nothing to offer. I'm a little worried about the budget side. In the public data that I have to use, this budget is about 23 million euros, which includes the contribution of the state and local governments, including the city of Tartu, there is also money from Europe. If I look at the state budget procedure now and compare it with the financial discipline of the municipalities, it would seem that the state's financial discipline is clearly more relaxed than that of local governments. I am concerned that the state will be able to deliver on its promise to support this undertaking. Very many promises that are not reflected in this budget have not been made precisely because the budget is in such a poor state. I mean the budget minus and the cash flow in general. That's the problem. I can say that municipalities are probably able to make the promised contribution, but does the country still have these opportunities? As minister, can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U86	Thank you, Mr Asker, for a very good question. I don't think I fully understood the question. I am not informed of what you mean by the Tartu 20/24 programme. I know Tartu 2024. This is the ECOC programme, which concerns the fact that Tartu is the European Capital of Culture in 2024 in this particular year. But you're right. The preparations are already underway and it has been agreed that the programme will be financed by the State up to EUR 10 million. At the moment, the state budget strategy is so planned that it will be well-filled. We will start next year with half a million, and then more specifically: the more the event, the more the money will be allocated. This is what the budget strategy provides for. There are now detailed discussions on how this money will be transferred. The city of Tartu makes a separate foundation for this purpose and all the necessary models are legally available. If the country received funding from Tallinn as the European Capital of Culture in 2011, it can do so in the case of Tartu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U87	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Perhaps my linguistic expression 'Twenty-Twenty-four' does not mean the year 2024, but the linguistic expression 'up to EUR 10 million' could also cause concern. Maybe we'll continue this discussion behind the scenes. But my next question relates to the fact that when we look at the ECOC programme, we see that it consists of different activities, but there are no such forms of investment directly there. In some ways, it is normal, but I know that different regions are making an effort to make and receive certain investments. The one thing I have caught in my eye is the funny and shameful case of the former ERM Exhibition House. This situation has been right for many years now, many governments have not been able to take a decision. The city of Tartu has, as far as I know, expressed its wish to take advantage of this building as a partnership house. Neither has the current government given any signal of what will happen to this house. I ask this because we know of positive experiences from different times, where the state has handed over some buildings to local governments and they have started very sensible activities that have benefited the whole community or region. Personally, I very much support this house to gain a soul and a life. As your Minister of Culture, please tell me whether you have proposed to the government or the government office to solve this problem and to give it to the local government. I don't think it's directly within your jurisdiction, but I'm still asking if you've discussed it. And if you haven't discussed it, when do you plan to do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U89	Thank you. Honourable questioner, you won't get off so easily. You have just left one loose end in the air: it is as if I have said and I have said that up to EUR 10 million is public support. This has been agreed because Tartu now needs to submit a specific action plan and a related application to fund the programme, and after that a contract and payment schedule will be made. If Tartu has activities for less than 10 million, the state will pay no more than Tartu. Specific cost groups have agreed on parities: if the programme costs more than 20 million, the state will pay 10 million. That is a promise, and it will certainly be kept. Technically, this job is on, so I don't really see a problem. As regards whether or not the buildings previously held by the State have been transferred directly to the municipality, a great deal depends on who has been the real owner. In this case, it is Riigi Kinnisvara AS, which by law has to sell everything, and consequently, this sale has probably even been initiated a few times. The current government has not really dealt with this issue and this task has not been set out for me either.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U90	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U91	Thank you. Tell me, as Minister of Culture, do you agree with Aeg's argument that the harassment of a minority in Pärnu, which forced them to abandon their cause, was a declaration of democracy. After all, this was an unsanctioned meeting, a sanctioned meeting could be a form of freedom of expression, forcing a minority to stop its event. Do you think the problem would have been only if it had grown into physical harassment? We imagine this in the context of the current question: we imagine that there will be a similar situation, that one minority wants to organise the 'Tartu Capital of Culture 2024' event, another minority will attack them and the event will be canceled. What do you think of your party partner as Minister of Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U92	Thank you for a very good question. As far as I know, the Minister of Justice did not say that this was a special expression of democracy that took place there. As far as I am aware, no specific complaints have been received about this unique and one-off activity. And it's the kind of saying you hear both glowing out of this castle and in front of Stenbock's house that someone thinks you're on the wrong path and wants to explain it to you with a loud voice. So this is a more general behavioural problem. I agree that, from the point of view of behavioural culture, it may have been an insult to people. I wasn't there, and I didn't read the article carefully. I'd certainly behave more culturally. So from a behavioural point of view, it wasn't the best.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U93	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U94	Next up, Jüri Jaanson, please! Reply by Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U95	Thank you, Mr President. In the Remark procedure, I would first of all say, as regards the reply to the question of Signe Riisalo, that the creation of mobility opportunities for people with disabilities still requires increased attention from the Minister. But I want to talk to you about something else. As we know, the population needs to move physically as a whole in order to mitigate health risks, and the development plan of the Ministry of Culture also states that by 2020 50% of people will be moving. All right, the gauges are different, measured both ways, but at least some kind of target has been set down. It is clear that this requires inter-ministerial, if not cross-ministerial, cooperation. Getting people moving is generally within your ministry's jurisdiction, while the movement of young people is under the Ministry of Education and Research. Income tax relief for the use of sports club services is under the Ministry of Finance, infrastructure development under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, etc. You have also benefited from the development of the movement of disabled people. Now I ask you to describe a little bit of this inter-ministerial or cross-ministerial cooperation. And do you have any idea what percentage of next year's budget is going to promote the movement of the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U96	Thank you, Mr Asker, for a very good question. I don't exactly know the methodology by which this percentage is determined. Those programs were drawn up before me. But I share your concern about the lack of movement of children and young people. There are 24% active movers. But when then could the active movement of children and young people be 100% active. So this 24% is very worrying. You said that for the whole population, the target is 50%. Again, this percentage could be higher. Activities run between ministries, and it is our job to make sure that they do not fall between the various chairs of the ministry in such a way that no one is directly responsible. As a result, these programmes also have responsibility. For example, it may seem that the "School inviting to move' is a programme of the Ministry of Education and Research, but it is a programme of the Ministry of Social Affairs because it is covered with Norwegian money. The Ministry of Culture has a role to play in these activities. I am not talking about top sports and support for sports schools, but about how people start themselves, doing something without having to be on the list of a few laps specifically. This habit comes from school. The cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of the Interior and the Estonian Swim League has been known to be a programme of initial swimming instruction, which is quite extensive. Tax incentives, which were discussed very much in this Chamber too and which were constantly postponed, have now entered into force. So institutions can also calmly cover part of the costs of healthy activities, sport, for their employees in the public sector. This is predominantly a positive step. Responsible for the Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Social Affairs. Actions to support activities of interest and education are in the domain of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research. So, yeah, there's a lot of inter-ministerial joint action.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U97	Thank you. Jüri Jaanson, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U98	This particular measure, which is stated in your government development plan, is for the year 2020. The farther strategic goal is still to get people to move at Nordic level. If we're watching Nordic top sport, then top sport is on the rise. Gold medals will be won in the World Championships, and this number will increase. Unfortunately, we don't. But top sport is an example of creative activity by important inspirations to exercise. That is why I am asking how the budget for next year and how it will continue to support top sport. The budget for next year will give Team Estonia EUR 2 million. Will this amount increase in the future? I hope it does. I'll ask you if it's growing, if you can see the possibilities in the state budget. The issue is, above all, that we lack qualified trainers to promote both top sports and exercise. And there is a huge shortage of support services, which are in need of a screaming need.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U99	Thank you, Honourable Asker. First of all, how we can be successful on the meter and how we can make the whole society move. Here we all have our word. We can do a lot in our small groups, in our collective, in our family, in school, everywhere. I'm pretty sure both of my guys at this table are gonna do one practice tonight. I'm sure I'll be on the train when I'm driving towards Tartu, maybe later I'll even go running. And I have also experienced the happy buzz of the members of the Riigikogu in the gym of this building. But now to top sports and a more serious tone. Yes, it is an example, especially for young people, it is an incentive. A person has to think about how to keep himself in shape. In general, top athletes are also very intelligent and well prepared for life. But you mentioned the Olympic movement. The government will fully support, as the Estonian Olympic Committee has proposed, the funding of the Estonian team's programme for the next year to the tune of 3 million. Exactly 3 million have been earmarked for this and the implementation of this programme will continue in the coming years. We also support Rally Estonia, so that it can become a very visible place in the international rative calendar. In addition, the budget for next year also provides for the establishment of polyfunctional sports halls in county centres. We are planning to start piloting in some counties, but the aim is to set up greys for winter activities in all counties, with the support of the state. So, with regard to sport investments, funding for sport, including top sport funding, this government has taken its steps and will certainly continue to do so in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U100	The mike was out. It seemed that no one was more interested in discussing this issue, and we will stop looking at the previous question. We'll get to the next one. The questioner is Liina Kersna, answers Minister of Justice Raivo Time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U101	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Last year, an amendment to the civil procedure was approved, stressing the need for child custody and rights of access to take into account the violence of the parent towards the child or the other parent. When I meet women's support centres, victim support workers and prosecutors in different regions of Estonia, I have realised that this practice has not reached courtrooms very much. Too often it is said that the victim's sacrifice is still taking place in the courtroom. As we know, the perpetrators are usually very good manipulators. It is often the case that when a court has given judgment, violence becomes even greater. My question is, has this concern reached the Ministry of Justice? And when it does, do you have any ideas or plans on how to better protect the rights of the victims of close relationship violence?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U102	Thank you for your question. This is an extremely emotional and painful issue, particularly regarding the protection of children from a violent family member. This subject is also highly complicated. Indeed, it is extremely difficult for those who make these decisions and other outsiders to see family problems, family relationships. They must start to dissect the problem from some point of view and make decisions. I am thinking precisely that you referred to the organisation of the Court and the decisions of the judges, their competence in making certain decisions. Much has been said about this and there has also been a great deal of discussion in various networks on how the relevant national systems can work together. I mean the justice system and the social system. On the other hand, it is important how voluntary associations, let us say associations acting on the public initiative, can contribute as a support, and they are trying to provide support. And a lot has been done. I read an article. Attorney-at-Law Tambet Laasik has written it. On the one hand, he has rightly pointed out these problems. But on the other hand, I think it is a bit biased and it is not quite fair to the actions that the state has taken to solve precisely these problems in order to bring children out of the violent environment and to ensure a better future for them. As far as the courts are concerned, the Ministry of Justice has reached this point. We have also discussed this with the courts and the courts have been very clearly informed about the problem. Training of judges has started. We are moving towards a specialization in family matters and especially in matters concerning children in courts. And in universities, the "preparation period" of specialists includes issues related to family and intimate violence and to the protection of children's rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U103	Thank you. Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U104	Thank you very much. And thank you very much for your answer. It is a pleasure to hear that the judges wish to take advantage of the opportunity to educate themselves a little bit on this subject. We have seen that there are systematic trainings in the prosecutor's office for prosecutors who are involved in this area, and this has really raised awareness in the prosecutor's office. I don't think re-sacrifice is in our legal system anymore. But my second question concerns children who have grown in a violent environment that has witnessed violence. In legal terms, these children are only witnesses, officially they are not sufferers, although we know that there has been a great deal of research that proves that when a child sees violence side by side, he or she is more affected than maybe physically experiencing violence himself. My question is: do you agree that children who have grown in the midst of violence could also officially be in victim status?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U105	Thank you. If the child is self-inflicted, of course he is in victim status, there is no question at all. The other side is now whether he is a moral victim, whether he has suffered emotionally in any way. So far, indeed, we do not have very long and good case law here. There will be an offence like that of a victim of psychological violence. After all, this is a victim of psychological violence. If a child has developed a certain medical condition, has reached a depressive state, and has been diagnosed with such a diagnosis after the examination, then there is a criminal record. But we do understand that it is relatively complicated to carry out this kind of expertise in relation to a child. We need to make sure that we do not harm a child by conducting such long - term investigations, expertise, and diagnosis. As you yourself rightly pointed out, the moment of re-sacrifice can very easily arise here. Because in all of this, the child is asked the same questions again, he has to go back into these situations, he actually has to tear himself apart in a certain sense. After all, these same studies have made it very clear that the child is actually attached to both parents, even though the other is violent against him or the mother or father. It doesn't matter, the child still gets attached to both parents and it's very difficult to get appropriate and age-appropriate statements from him. That's a problem. But we must try to solve these problems with the support of training and the progress of case law. Surely it can't be that we decide today, tomorrow we will have results. It is a very long and laborious process.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U106	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U107	Thank you. I will return to legislative violence. In response to Andres Sut, you said that the dismantling of the second pillar has been discussed enough. Please tell me, what practices were the subject of good lawmaking practice in your opinion? There is no draft planning; there has not been any impact analysis before the decision; there has been no coordination round at the level of the government. Experts' criticism of this is as unanimous as what is happening, for example, in the field of climate change. There's always someone who claims otherwise, but basically, the assessment is unanimously destructive. Eesti Pank has carried out an unambiguous critical impact analysis, the Ministry of Finance has already done so before the elections. The assessment is undoubtedly destructive. But the law is intended to be established from the beginning of 2021, although the Riigikogu has not yet received this draft. Please tell me what else can be done so that you, too, as Minister of Justice, would say that this does not comply with good legislative practice. What else can we do to make you critical?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U108	Thank you, good questioner! Actually, there's no bill. We cannot talk here that we should see it somewhere in the coordination circle or discuss a specific draft. We are talking about whether society has had any opportunity or scope to discuss this issue. I pointed out that the social debate has actually been quite active, as you yourself pointed out in your question. Although Eesti Pank, the Ministry of Finance, has discussed this, different interest groups have discussed it. And it should certainly be noted that this debate has been twofold. There have also been very many different opinions expressed by authoritative people with banking and financial knowledge at all. They say that this idea is not bad at all, it deserves to be progressed and implemented. So I guess this debate's going on. When this bill comes out, we will be in the round of coordination and the debate will begin in both the government and Parliament. Well, he's going through the usual bill procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U110	Looking at the clock, it can be said that if we do so quickly, Urve Tiidus will be able to ask at least one question to Minister for Culture Tõnis Lukas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The impact of music lessons on the academic progress of school students has been reflected in numerous high-level scientific studies in the world in recent decades. Different research methods have resulted in very positive effects of singing lessons and musical studies, including language learning, speech skills, memory, attention, emotions, communication ability, and some data, even mathematical ability. As a songfolk, we can only rejoice in this knowledge. What you cannot rejoice about is the secondary growth of music teachers, especially choir leaders. I'm just reminding you of one commentary here. According to the Estonian Choir Leaders' Association, there may not be enough conductors to take the singers to the party after a few general Song Festivals or Song Festivals in 2034. According to Heli Jürgenson, the figures that look back on us from the record of the song festival give us reason to be afraid. The year 2034 seems to be a distant future, and it is likely to be used to the fact that a good and responsible man or woman is taking on the preparation of local choirs. This has always been the case, and what if the reward is symbolic, the municipality will come to the aid. But the practical problem is that this profession needs to be studied for a long time and first of all to be chosen from its many opportunities to advance its professional career. Tell me, Minister Lukas, what, as your political leader in the field, you will do specifically to ensure the sustainability of our fascinating cultural tradition, while also knowing that there will soon be much less teachers of science than there is demand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U112	Dear questioner, thank you for a nice question. This introduction was really very right and nice too. The role of music in school education is great and the network of music schools is, first, the foundation for our culture and the survival of musical traditions. Secondly, it is also very important for public health. If you keep your fingers on while playing the instrument until you are older, it will also help you in your old age to avoid mental fatigue and other problems. So we really need to make sure that our music traditions, our singing and musical traditions are not destroyed. In particular, the Ministry of Culture plans to launch a system of support for the wages of song and dance leaders throughout the country, as well as for orchestra leaders. There's going to be some kind of money coming up next year. This system we are discussing with the people of the choir society and the people's dance leaders. It is likely to be analogous to the national wage subsidy scheme for coaches. Some people's salaries come from the state, but of course this does not mean that all income comes from the state. Both the members of the collectives with their membership fees and the municipality or any other employer must contribute. But we must, yes, first of all, make sure that in each region there are good choir and dance directors in front of those who wish, so that it is an occupation with a steady income. Then young people will come to learn it. At the moment, it is really a problem that there are relatively few young people in the field of choir management at the relevant educational institutions at the Otsa School, Eller School and also at the Music and Theatre Academy. When these young people slam behind the university door and walk into life, they know that this is a very necessary and respectable specialty, but they don't have a post. When people ask you where you get paid, they don't know exactly. But it has to be an occupation like any other, so we can also keep continuity. I believe that, given how serious the Estonian people are about their singing tradition, this idea of introducing wage support is also supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U113	Actually, we're running out of time...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U114	Asks Signe Kivi, answers the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U115	Thank you, chairman of the meeting. Dear Minister, By 2023, cultural capital has been expected to be used by cultural buildings, let us mention the resources allocated here by Kumu, ERM, the last time the Academy of Music and Theatre, and discussions have begun on possible new objects. Kertu Saks, head of Cultural Capital, stated: "The students have been in the air, but still everything depends on who is in the government at the time of the decision and which politicians the Committee on Culture is made up of. ' As a member of the Committee on Culture, I ask: what is the Minister's vision of the timetable and whose list of wishes is drawn up for decision in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U116	Thank you, dear questioner, for a good question. This question had such a slightly broader background. I believe that we agree that all political forces represented in the Riigikogu should be able to make proposals. The distribution of gambling tax directed by the Cultural Endowment for investments is in fact in the hands of the Riigikogu. In particular, in the year in which the amount of funding is made, this can also be decided by the Cultural Capital Council, but the Riigikogu makes the basic decision. For example, in 1996 it was decided to deal with three large objects: Kumu, the Estonian National Museum and the Academy of Music and Theatre. They're done now. I think that the Committee on Culture could now launch a debate from which everyone will take part, and certainly the government will also discuss it and say its position as soon as possible this autumn. In 2023, investments may already be made from these funds, the plan should be ready much earlier. You've got to design it, too. But I think we could discuss objects like this. After all, the state will also continue to invest in its own budget. For example, the government decided to take the National Archives to the National Library building and build an Estonian National Broadcasting TV house. These investments will continue. However, the Riigikogu could not put 30-140 ideas in a row, but still think about the symbolic objects. The Cultural Endowment Facility makes it possible to do something big.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U117	Thanks, we're running out of time. Question Time is over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U118	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Attention! We will begin the 6th working week session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. It is possible to start by handing over drafts and enquiries. The members of the Riigikogu do not have the wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. We're gonna do a presence check. 75 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U119	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the Bill 61 on the Amendment to the Traffic Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. We are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 61 amending the traffic law relating to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U120	Today's second item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act, the Courts Act and the Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations and we can go to the final vote. Can we go to the vote? I would remind you that a majority of the composition is necessary for the adoption of the draft. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act, the Law on Courts and the Law on Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic. 29. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Valdo Randpere, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U121	It's still procedural. Have we changed the Home and Working Procedures Act so that there will be no drafts that need 51 votes before the majority vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U122	Yes, the Rules of Procedure have been amended in the spring, so there is no need for this mandatory majority presence check. . [[Summing in the hall]] Yeah. Okay. Did the answer satisfy you? (The buzz continues.) Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U123	Give me a microphone if you ask me anything. The answer was very satisfying. I just wanted to see if you and I were on the same page.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U124	Thank you. As the two previous votes showed, we are on the same page.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U125	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Space Agency on the Accession of Estonia to the Convention establishing a European Space Agency. I ask Mikhail Korb, member of the Economic Commission, to serve as a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at two meetings. The first meeting was held on 15 October and it was decided to place the draft on the plenary agenda on 23 October. At the same meeting, the committee president proposed that the Commission discuss the content of the draft and the amendments at its meeting on 21 October. That was the case, on 21 October the draft was discussed. The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft was 9 October, and no amendments were received. At the meeting of the Commission, the draft was accompanied by an entry into force clause allowing the agreement to enter into force earlier. Without the entry into force provision, the Act would enter into force on the 10th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State, but this amendment to the draft law provides that the Act will enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. All decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner and a final vote has been proposed to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U127	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U128	Thank you. At first reading, I asked Minister Kingo why it is necessary to bring this matter to the Riigikogu, and the state does not take any responsibility here. He couldn't explain it. Please tell me exactly what the debate on this matter was in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U129	It is very easy to answer that question. This was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U130	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U131	Thank you. Don't be so modest, I'm sure the Commission discussed this draft before it sent it to the Chamber. Please tell me why we have to vote in the big hall. I thought you were familiar with the bill, and you know how to pass on these details.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U132	Ladies and gentlemen, You have a very correct and well-founded question. Of course, the Commission discussed this issue very seriously and very thoroughly, because the topic of space is very important for Estonia. Yes, we want to fly into space, our economy must serve the conquest of space and maybe we can conquer something in space to Estonia someday, but it is a distant future and a distant dream. But the debate in the Commission, of course, was not so spectacular and so far-reaching. It is simply that the Commission discussed a modest world, a mercanist world, about money. The Commission discussed the need to increase this amount to 750000 in the amount of EUR 500000 allocated to Estonia. And the Commission was lucky, no 'happy' is perhaps the wrong word to use, but the members of the committee were certainly happy that the Estonian economy will receive a larger amount of support and will clearly benefit the Estonian economy. As far as your question is concerned, I cannot say exactly whether this issue must be discussed by the Riigikogu or not. But I think that the Riigikogu is a place where any important issue of Estonian state life could be in discussion and where members of the Riigikogu would be able to express their opinion on it, for example in the form of questions or a subsequent speech. Perhaps I think it is good that we are talking about space, talking about large projects and talking about developing some area in a positive direction. I welcome it and consider it a very good discussion. I hope I have answered your question exhaustively.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U133	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? All members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to participate. There is no wish for negotiation. As one amendment to the draft has also been tabled, we will examine this amendment. The amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. As the lead committee has also proposed a final vote, we are going to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Space Agency on the Accession of Estonia to the Convention establishing a European Space Agency 49. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U134	Let's keep going. Today's fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Energy Economy, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like Mr Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Economic Commission, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U135	Thank you, good Vice President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on 15 October before sending it to second reading. No colleagues, the Commission or the political group tabled amendments within the deadline set. It was therefore very easy for the Commission to decide that it was proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda today and to propose that the second reading be closed. These decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U136	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft have been tabled either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 48 and that is the end of the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U137	Let's keep going. Today's fifth item is the first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, to waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U138	Very honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good Estonian people who are watching it directly! I am very happy to hand over to the Riigikogu the draft state budget for 2020 prepared by the Government of the Estonian Centre Party, EKRE and the Government of the Isamaa Party. Our most important task is to ensure the survival of the Estonian people and of the independent state and of the protected Estonia. I have always stressed in my political activities that the state can only succeed thanks to the contribution of successful entrepreneurs and good citizens. That is why I thank our entrepreneurs and other hardworking people for their contribution to the compilation of the largest state budget of all time and promise to continue their efforts to ensure that Estonia is an attractive place for entrepreneurs and that good workers receive a decent reward. Next year's budget expenditure and investment will amount to around EUR 11.6 billion, and revenue will be estimated at EUR 11.8 billion. Compared to this year, expenditure increases by around 240 million euros and revenues by 760 million euros. Estonia's tax burden will remain at 33.2% of GDP in the next two years and will fall to 32.7% of GDP in 2022. The general government debt ratio is falling both in euro and as a share of GDP, from 8.8% this year to 8% in 2020. In absolute terms, this means a reduction from 2.4 billion to 2.3 billion. With this indicator, the debt ratio of the Estonian government is the lowest in the European Union. The government will continue to pursue a conservative fiscal policy with the aim of structurally balancing the budget as part of it. In this way, fiscal policy supports balanced economic growth and the state's current expenditure is not covered by debt. The budget is nominally balanced and moving towards structural balance. Next year the deficit will be 0.7% of GDP, by 2021 the structural deficit will decrease to 0.2% and the budget will reach nominal surplus. The nominal government budget balance for 2020 is planned at a surplus of 32 million. The improvement of the budget step by step is better for the economy than a sharp cut in expenditure. For the first time since 2020, the country will have an activity-based budget. This concept is based on a system linking the strategic and operational level of governance and providing managers with the financial and management instruments necessary to take decisions, implement them and monitor results. We must be able to use our state's money, whether from tax revenue or external resources, or whether it is borrowed wisely enough to increase the growth potential of the economy. This can be done, inter alia, with the support of infrastructure investments. The share of public investment in Estonia is already one of the largest in the European Union. In Estonia today, however, there is a situation where the country's loan burden is the smallest in Europe, while the budget rules of the European Union do not allow for sufficient flexibility in investing in various public objects, such as roads, the Saaremaa Bridge or public buildings that need to be upgraded. In Europe and other countries, there is a widespread prevalence of PPP projects, which means cooperation between the private and public sectors to share risks and money. With the help of the PPP, it is possible to build Tallinn-Pärnu, Tallinn-Tartu and Tallinn-Narva highways in full four lines already in the next few years, and it also offers a very good solution for the rapid completion of the Saaremaa fixed connection. The state budget is certainly not a financial document in itself. He must serve the people and state of Estonia in the best possible way and also promote the objectives of the government in power. Therefore, with the state budget for 2020, we want to pay clear attention to those areas of state and social life that need most support and help to ensure that Estonia continues to develop rapidly, but also to reduce social inequalities. You will have before you a responsible state budget for 2020, based on five priorities agreed upon in the formation of a government. These are family-friendly Estonia, where people feel safe and secure; a cohesive society whose members feel involved and the gaps between different social groups are narrowed; a knowledge-based economy and lifelong learning; effective governance so that communication with the state is easy and smooth; and a safe and protected state where all fundamental rights and freedoms are guaranteed. I will also give you a brief overview of the current economic situation and the background to the current budget. The current state of the Estonian economy is strong and according to the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance, the economy will grow by 3.3% this year, with an increase of 2.2% in 2020. In this context, the size of the state budget is also increasing. I want to stress again that, as the economy grows, it will be possible to better finance our defence, internal security, education, science, culture, sport and health care, and help those who need the support of society to cope. Unfortunately, the outlook for the world economy and the countries most affecting Estonia has weakened in recent months, and therefore the Estonian economy will grow more slowly than in the previous years. Nevertheless, the current state of the Estonian economy is better than the wider picture of the world economy would allow us to expect, and the indicators of the Estonian economy have remained strong so far. Of course, an increase of 2.2% is not what we can be satisfied with, because we know that we are capable of more. According to the Board of Budgets, the summer forecast of the Ministry of Finance is in line with the changes in the Estonian economy and the assumptions chosen when drawing up the forecast. However, the Board considers that there is a risk that the impact of geopolitical and foreign trade tensions will be higher than expected, and this could lead to slower economic growth than forecasted. Global trends, however, are difficult to ignore or wrong. For this reason, we must make an effort to continue to grow as quickly as possible in the situation that has developed. Public finances must balance economic development. If necessary, we must be prepared to balance the recession with greater public spending. At the same time, at this stage of growth, care must be taken to ensure that we have buffers at the expense of which to relax the budget if necessary. We also need to work to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent as well and as reasonably as possible, which means a critical review of spending points. The austerity measures agreed by the government in the spring in the country's budget strategy also need attention in the state budget for next year. The government can decide to what extent we need to reduce the operating costs of the state, find additional sources of revenue and postpone or cancel the investments previously planned. Due to the need for austerity, public authorities need to critically review their work organisation and costs. This will enable the country to be made more sustainable and efficient, which is, by the way, the aim of the state reform. The government will also seriously continue the state budget review in the budgetary process for next year. It must give us a comprehensive picture of the state's activities and services and show whether the expenditure we spend is always targeted at this most appropriate place and serve our people and our country in the best way, not only for savings, but also to make things better. We must set ourselves the goal of doing more with less. After all, the growth potential of the economy lies mainly in whether we can increase the productivity of our companies. To this end, we need to increase competitiveness, expand activity in target markets and sell more and for more money. The current Estonian labour market is characterised by a high level of employment and rapid wage growth. There are a record number of people employed. By next year, we expect an increase of 0.1% in employment, in essence the ceiling has been reached. Wages are also rising rapidly today. According to the forecast, the average wage will increase slightly more slowly next year than today's 5 to 7%, remaining around 5%. People could also be thrilled to see price increases slow down compared to the previous two years. Next year we expect an increase of 2.2%. Among other things, lowering or not raising excise duties will contribute to the fall in prices. This means that it is expected that prices will rise moderately, which will not exceed the overall level from an economic point of view and will clearly be below income growth. The average wage is expected to increase to 1484 euros in the following year compared to 1404 euros. Wages are growing significantly faster than prices. Real growth in average wages, taking into account the impact of price increases, is forecast to be 4.8% this year and 3.4% next year. A strong economic environment increases tax receipts on the one hand and social expenditure on the other. Pensions are increasing. More money can be used in healthcare for the benefit of higher social tax revenues. In 2020, the tax revenue of the state budget will increase by around 5%. Next year's state budget is a budget that will bring tax peace to businesses and people. It will not bring any tax increases and no new taxes will be introduced, as will the tax burden. Our aim is to bring tax revenue back to Estonia and to curb border trade by cutting excise duties. Here I want to congratulate and thank our coalition partners, with whom we have been able to deliver on this promise. Looking at tax revenue in more detail, the tax burden will fall in 2020, accounting for 32.7% of GDP. An increase in VAT receipts is expected to be 5.9%. Of the components of the VAT base, household investment and private consumption will increase most in the following year: 6.6 and 5.2%, respectively. The growth in household investment is still driven by the high level of real estate investment of the population, the growth in private consumption is driven by slow but strong wage growth and stable consumer confidence. In addition, the shadow economy is expected to decline. The yield of alcohol duty increases by 0.7% mainly due to the increase in sales volume resulting from the change in border trade. The current excise duty payment is affected by the fall in excise duty rates. The payment of excise duty for August was 13.5% more than a year earlier, but in the eight-month period, excise duty receipts have been 3.6% lower this year than last year. And for two reasons. First, at the beginning of 2018, large stocks were acquired before the tax increase. Secondly, in the first half of the year before the tax was reduced, the tax revenue was below forecast. Following the drop in excise duty, the retail supply of alcohol has increased due to lower prices and changes in border trade. The biggest change is the declared volume of strong alcohol, which was 39.4% higher in August than in May this year. Due to the slowdown in wage and employment growth, social tax payments will increase by 6.7% in 2020, and this year we expect an increase of 9.6%. Natural person income tax will increase by 25.3% in the state budget for 2020, and such a high increase will in particular be linked to the non-increase in the tax-free rate of income, resulting in wage growth taking people out of the tax-free rate. People have used tax-free income in the same way as in 2018 this year, so income tax refunds similar to those expected in 2019 are expected to be 183 million this year, with an increase of 53 million this year. In order to increase the personal income tax of local governments, we expect 6.8% in 2020, which is the same as the increase in social tax. Local authorities' allocation rate is 11.96% in 2020 and receipts represent 76% of the total personal income tax payable in 2020. The income tax revenue of a legal person continues to be affected by the lower tax rate of profits distributed on a regular basis, as well as by a portion of the profits distributed by public enterprises, which leads us to a reduction of 8,5%. Looking now at the major expenditures in this budget, the government considers it a priority to continue to contribute to both internal security and national defence. In 2020, Estonia's defence expenditure remains above 2% of GDP, which is approximately 615 million euros. The exact number is 2.11% of GDP, with an increase of 5% compared to last year and a financial increase of EUR 29,5 million. This includes EUR 10 million to cover the costs of receiving allies and EUR 20 million, for which we are making additional defence investments. In order to ensure independent and collective security, Estonia will continue to participate in several international operations. Important activities will continue to be implemented as foreseen in the National Defence Development Plan. The Defence Forces are preparing for the deployment of mobile artillery in the field of capability development and will continue training in infantry combat machinery. The plan is to buy large-calibre ammunition to ensure that the military military structure is adequately equipped. New handguns are coming into use and we're going to start replacing anti-tank systems for infantry crews. The government will also continue to build a border. There will be EUR 15.6 million for the border in 2020, including EUR 12.6 million for the construction of the border. A total of EUR 71 million is foreseen for the implementation of the border project in the coming years. The government has agreed to build the border more sustainably than envisaged in the interim plans, ensuring the entire eastern border of the fence and road network, and allowing it to be supplemented later by the promotion of electronic observation capacity. Compared to the EUR 74 million planned in 2015, current plans are expected to allow the Eastern border to be built up to a total of EUR 83 million. R &amp; D will receive almost €16 million additional funding from the state budget next year, including €5.3 million for research grants and basic research funding. I consider it very important that, from 1 April, the average old-age pension will rise by EUR 45, which means that for example, the old-age pension for a 44-year-old person will be EUR 528 per month next year. The government contributed EUR 20.8 million to the extraordinary pension increase. This is the biggest pension increase in the last 12 years, giving the average elderly an additional EUR 540 per year. In addition to the rise in pensions, it is very important to pay attention to workers. The government therefore decided to allocate 22.8 million additional funds to increase the payroll fund. This money will go to an increase in the salaries of teachers, internal security workers, state-paid social workers, cultural workers, as well as workers from environmental and rural authorities. The state will also continue to support municipalities with EUR 15 million so that the average pay for kindergarten teachers is similar to the minimum wage for school teachers. In order to increase the wage fund for internal security staff, the government allocated a total of EUR 7 million by 2020, of which 5.2 million will go to the Ministry of Internal Affairs area, where it will analyse which positions are most in need of wage increases. The payroll is divided between police officers, rescuers, prison guards, customs officials, environmental inspectors, and many other agencies that are important to us. The salaries of social rehabilitation, special care and substitute care specialists of state earners will also rise next year. The exact wage increase is determined, of course, by the employer from whom the service is ordered and, in the case of replacement care, the extra money is directed to the local government's income base. The wages of cultural workers are also close to the average wage in Estonia, and an additional 2.1 million euros are planned to be allocated to cover the labour costs of cultural workers and coaches. Grants, including those for children with disabilities, will also be increased and new investments will be made to increase the well-being of people living in Estonia. The government prefers investments that increase the growth potential of the Estonian economy. As a very important and long-awaited decision, the government will invest around EUR 80 million next year to support the creation of a modern working and service environment in public services agencies. As one of the priorities, EUR 45 million of extra money will be invested in real estate objects in the Ministry of the Interior. Among other things, the joint buildings of the Rescue Board in Pärnu and Sillamäe will be completed in the next few years, and constructions in Nõmme and Lilleküla are currently taking place in Tallinn. Next year the construction of Tallinn Music and Ballet School begins. We have agreed to bring together the National Library and the National Archives under the roof of the library, during which the National Library building on Tõnismäe will be thoroughly reconstructed. In addition, within five years, we will allocate some EUR 34 million to the construction of 19 state buildings in the county centres. I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance, the other ministries and all our officials for their hard work in drawing up the budget. I also sincerely congratulate coalition partners from the Estonian Central Party, the Fatherland Party and colleagues from my home party! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have the budget for next year. It is a responsible budget that supports our economy, our security and the well-being of our families. It supports this in a way that the budget is in nominal balance, the tax burden is stable and the debt burden is reduced. I call on Parliament to support the budget. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U139	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, you have many questions. But before you know it, two details. The draft has not been handed over by the three groups, but by the government, and today it is not the transfer of the draft, but the first reading. So, honourable members of the Riigikogu, let's go to questions! Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U140	Thank you, Mr President. It would have been my introduction that it is very symptomatic that Martin Helme presents the budget as the budget of the three parties, but it is the government of the Republic and the government is the republic's, not the three parties. But it's symptomatic. However, non-party experts have made a destructive assessment of this matter. With regard to the number of the spring RES, they said that it was inadequate, that it was not in line with economic conditions, that it was damaging the economy and public finances, that it was damaging the growth potential of the economy. Now the same Fiscal Council, but also Eesti Pank, criticises that the budget has been relaxed. Please give your assessment of Eesti Pank and the Fiscal Council in your best style. There's some kind of partyed guys out there who don't even have a mandate. Please say the quote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U141	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Can I come back to my introductory speech? I am very pleased to hand over the draft state budget prepared by the Government of the Estonian Central Party, Conservative People's Party and the Pro Patria Party. I agree that the transfer took place earlier and that we have a first reading, but I did say 'government'. Of course, it is the government's work and, of course, it has been helped by all kinds of experts. Some of them are completely partyized, but certainly some have their own political preferences. My assessment of Eesti Pank and the Fiscal Council? Excellently positive. People have given their input, they have also made criticism sometimes, criticism has been heard between them. I communicate with both the Board and the Governor of Eesti Pank on a regular basis. Sometimes we argue. These are all the different institutions that have been set up to ensure that we have the broadest possible look at the Estonian budget process, Estonian finances. But unlike the government, they have no political task that voters would have given them. The government has a political mission. Every day I go to work, I ask what we promised our constituents and what we promised in the coalition agreement. The budget has to reflect that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U142	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of Finance! In your report you said that Estonia is the country with the lowest loan burden and the most investment in Europe. You failed to say that in addition to this, there is the greatest poverty among older people in Estonia; almost half of the Estonian elderly live in relative poverty. You said that with the 2020 budget, the government wants to increase social security and the livelihood of retirement age and that you will raise your pension to an average of EUR 528 per month. At the same time, the relative poverty threshold was already EUR 523 in 2017. If you deduct this EUR 528 income tax, the average pension level in 2020 will be 60 cents lower than the relative poverty threshold in 2017. Wages and prices have risen over the course of three years. I do not see the Government's will to alleviate the situation of the elderly; I still see cynical manipulation of cents and poorer taxation of the poor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U144	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U145	Do you believe what you're saying?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U146	Thank you for your question. I'm pretty sure we both believe what we say. But in this series of numbers, maybe it's important to over-emphasise some things. As I said in my speech, wage growth is significantly faster than price growth. The pension is indexed on the basis of wage growth, social security contributions. This means that pension increases faster than prices. This means that the purchasing power of the pension will increase. In addition to indexing, the government has allocated more money and added to the increase resulting from indexation. We might not be able to overrule that amount, whether it's a lot or not. There is a lot, but as a result of indexation and extraordinary increases in pensions, the average pension will increase by 45 euros in the case of average seniority next year. Yes, it is true that a very large number of pensioners move up the income tax-free limit with their average pension. But that is also true of all other employees. For all those on low incomes whose incomes are growing, their income will be taxed at 500 euros. Let's not confuse people or scare them! If someone gets a pension of EUR 528, they pay 20% of their income tax for EUR 28, it's some kind of four or five euros, right? So let us not give the impression that people now have to pay their pension for all income tax. I have been a member of the government for more or less six months, and I can do the work of Hercules here, but I will not put the Estonian pension ahead of the European average in six months.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U147	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Already in the spring budget strategy and now in next year's budget, there will be a lot of so-called performance reserve money. I'm sure that money's gonna come, but right now, he seems like an unshot bear. In the spring you already put this performance reserve into R &amp; D spending, but in the summer the bear got away without being shot. Turns out you can't put that money in the performance reserve. You directed it to ballet school. But instead, for R &amp; D, you took money from the Ministry of the Environment's budget, a resource efficiency measure for companies. You didn't hurt the Minister of the Environment, did you? And are you sure this score can be used to build a ballet school? What if the bear gets away without shooting again?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U149	Thank you very much. I'd say as a preliminary point, Mr Sõerd, I think we've got an awfully big compliment right now. See how the government can set up money to match the budget and increase revenue. We work really well. Whether we can use these specific external instruments for music and ballet schools has been checked several times, including from the European Commission. We all know that it is actually quite common that euro money can be used to restructure education. We build new schools every year for tens of millions of dollars. There's nothing unusual or unusual about it. As regards the reduction of environmental investment, it is true that there is a considerable amount in the current budget for 2019, which is not spent because foreign resources could not be spent. This, too, helped us to achieve a better balance in the budget. I am pretty sure that no area that does not succeed in using external resources as much as they would like is happy about it, but that is life.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U150	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U151	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister! I thought I listened very carefully, but I never heard the words 'rural life' and 'agricultural' in your presentation. Both your minister and your party have declared throughout the summer that agriculture and rural life are important to you. Transitional payments shall be paid in full. And when the Minister of Rural Affairs Järvik discovered at one point that the money was not so much, he referred to the evil officials of the Ministry of Finance. Another surprise for me was that after reading about South Estonia's most dangerous intersection, the circle of Tartu Lõunakeskus, I do not see a series of investments involved. Minister, could you answer why these two problems have been left unresolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U152	Thank you. Yes, you listened well and heard correctly. There was no mention of rural in my report, but I am happy to answer. It is true that our party has always emphasised that we are the country behind the most, least supported, of Europe in terms of agricultural subsidies in the European Union budget and that Estonia should use the top-ups given to ease it. But it is also true that the use of top-ups is possible until next year, then the budget period ends, and then no such measure is even foreseen. Let's see what the next budget period brings. This amount would have been 15 million next year, namely 15.3 million. When we had all the government members in office in the spring of the RES, I don't know, three weeks, there was some confusion about whether the top-up was planned or not. It was only during the autumn budget that it turned out that no, by 2020 there will be no money on the top-up line. And that money we then tried to find there in a situation where we needed to find savings in the 2020 budget for about EUR 100 million in September and, for some EUR 50 million, we actually needed to find more austerity to do the same wage increases and pension increases. It was very difficult to find something there. But for us, for all coalition parties, it was important that we put even some part of that amount in there, and that 15 million we managed to put 5 million in there. We ourselves are not satisfied with this, of course, but we also know that it is possible, on a rolling basis, above all through the Rural Promotion Foundation, not exactly the same, but similar support measures for agriculture, and by today, Minister Järvik has found another 6 million additional funds that could not be put there in the budgetary process. We work every day to make sure that this promise is also fulfilled. Now, with regard to the intersection of Tartu with circular traffic, I must admit that I am not so familiar with the details of this area, but it is true that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has postponed a number of major road construction projects. For completely different reasons, though there were disputes with landowners and there were procurement disputes. I understand that some places have not been able to reach agreement on any details with the local authorities. And I understand that the intersection of Tartu with circular traffic is one of those victims. But what exactly is the reason, I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U153	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! The budget minus is in the golden age of governance, I mean a very good tax collection and a very low inflation sin in a polite way, but in my view it would be much less than minus would have been due to additional investments. Unfortunately, the budget before us confirms the opposite: in fact, populist electoral promises are covered precisely at the expense of investments. One sufferer is Via Baltica. While the budget strategy approved by the Government of the Republic on 30 May was set at EUR 24 million for Via Baltica by 2020, the bill on the table today has a round zero. This cannot be due to the so-called accruals-based budget, as it was actually known on 30 May when the budget strategy was approved. What went wrong or where did the money go, in this case EUR 24 million for Via Baltica?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U155	Thank you. Via Baltica is probably hooking up with what I said earlier. I am not familiar with the Road Construction Procurement and Procedures of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, but it has been said repeatedly in the government that a whole range of different road construction projects simply stretches. There are different reasons, and I'm not gonna pretend here that I'm exactly capable of bringing together every project and these reasons. But when it comes to investments, what the dear opposition is spreading, that we no longer have any investment, is a myth. That's not true. Of course, I understand you were joking with me when you said it was the golden age of the economy. The golden age of the economy was still before 2016, when the Reform Party was in power, but we are getting to investments. On average, Estonia invests over a billion euros a year. Over EUR 1 billion! This includes local authorities, central government and various social security funds. This is the highest level in Europe. If we happen to have specific objects or projects delayed, but some projects we also cancel because they seem a little too pompous or rarable, then we are talking about 7 million, 15 million, 20 million. In terms of budget, these are important sums of money for every person who realizes that EUR 20 million is a lot of money, but compared to the overall volume of public investment, they are EUR 20 million in which we either cancel or postpone investments, or they themselves are delayed by force majesty, completely cumbersome. Surely we will not cut the budget at the expense of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U156	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U157	Thank you. Good minister! I read and examined the budget for 2020 on page 443. There's a lot of information, but it's important not to. In good detail, thousands have been spoken and a kind-place is generally spoken of millions or hundreds of millions. I think that what Toomas Kivimägi has just asked for is the same example of investments that we are reading the same document, but we come to completely different conclusions. I think we have a pretty big problem with budgetary transparency. If I look at investments, there will be about 900 million in 2020, and 600 million in 2023. That's a clear reduction! On average, they may be somewhere, but not as a team. But my question is about costs. How can we be sure that the costs will not be surprised once again when, at the top of the economic cycle, the costs simply went out of hand and the budgetary expenditure position increased?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U158	Thank you. I cannot fail to comment on this part of the investment. I'm not sure which number you looked at either the central government or the entire public sector. It is clear that the current budget does not reflect the volume of budgetary resources of the European Union for the new period starting from 2021. This money is included in the RES with some kind of prognosis, but at this point it is not possible to plan it for so-called specific investments or for the second-third-fourth thing. So it's distorting that picture, isn't it? Now, I completely agree with the fact that I have not forgotten how I myself sat in exactly the same position a year ago and did the same thing with criticism of budgetary transparency that budget transparency is not what it should be. And I can tell you calmly that the ministers are not happy with this either. So there's a lot of room for improvement here, and I'm sure you'll find a partner in me to fix it. As far as expenditure is concerned, why we now need to get out of the structural deficit - let us not forget that our budget is still nominally balanced and that there are reasons for this next year's positive budget. The reasons are, in fact, a little further away and the forecast for 2018 and the economic forecast were significantly more optimistic than the one that finally came out. The sharp economic slowdown and the fall of tax receipts at the end of 2018 surprised everyone, not only the Ministry of Finance, but also Eesti Pank and the same fiscal council. During this year, we have been told a lot about who missed what or how it was possible, but more importantly, how to avoid it in the future. I would add that Estonia is not the only country with a bad surprise. But how do we avoid it, so that in the future the costs do not go too far? The answer is very simple: Estonia has a Minister of Finance who cares about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U159	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U160	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. If we count the costs saved from rural and regional policy here at first glance, at least EUR 65 million will give us these reduced costs. We were also talking about top-up, where I couldn't figure out how this comic situation came about, that the minister was going through the fields in the summer and in the barns and saying that there was a top-up, and then at the end of August, it turns out that the mice took it away. That's one thing. The second thing is that you say that the Minister for Rural Affairs has already found a way to restore it to the tune of 6.1 million. Is this possible 6.1 million made up of opportunities found within the budget of the Ministry of Rural Affairs? Can you open up these new perspectives a little more?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U161	Yeah, maybe you took the mice away, you can't blame squirrels. It is true that the Minister for Rural Affairs went away from the RES debate with the understanding that the top-up money existed but was not really there. It's as simple as that. The government had recently taken office, the RES process was new, there was some kind of misconception. There wasn't much to stop at. I can't comment on the general number 63 or 65 million that came out here. In my first run, I suggest that this is linked to the rural development plan, the ending of the various external instruments programmes, but I am not saying that is the case, just in case. As far as the extra money we are talking about is concerned, it can be channelled there through the Rural Promotion Foundation. I haven't gone into this project or program so deep, because it's fresh and I haven't had time to talk to Mart Järvik about it. But what I understand is that through financing operations, it is possible to support rural activities for such an amount, which is, yes, true, not quite the same as top-up, but it is a matter of channelling additional resources into the countryside. Again, I don't know in so much detail what mechanism he's planning to do this with, but the fact that he has these means is what he assured me.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U162	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U163	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I will finally come to the extinction of the rural area, but I will begin by saying that the words and amounts that are in the budget do not go together or do not fit together in any way. Under the priority of a coherent society, the first item of the government is the reform of the second pillar of pension. I don't understand how this leads to the goal. A knowledge-based economy is about reducing excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. What's there to know? And in the same way, the surprise-surprise is placed under the knowledge-based economy the top-up aimed at Estonian farmers and food producers to improve their competitive conditions. But how will the top-up reduction of 10 million improve the competitive conditions of Estonian farmers and food producers? And that's how it can go on. My favourite is on page 78, where the ratio of the average wage of teachers to the average wage of the country is shown as the most important measure in the field of education...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U164	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U165	... it is 120%, but the footnote says that it will be able to maintain a level of 88%. Question. When you answered the question of Urmas Kruus, you said that there was a need to cut back on rural spending; we needed to find money for wage increases and pensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U166	Ladies and gentlemen, The Rules of Procedure allow one minute to ask one question. [[Riina Sikkut will speak.]] It has taken a minute and a half, but you have not even reached the point. Please state your question! I would like to ask my fellow Members: let us try to abide by the one-minute rule! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U167	Yeah. So, the question is very specific: how does rural extinction bring closer to government priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U168	Thank you, dear Riina Sikkut. The calls are at the end and everyone can give a speech during the second reading. In the case of the second pillar, it is important to note that the reform of the second pillar has not yet been carried out. The impact of this reform on tax receipts, or on the economy at all, or on incomes, is not reflected in the current budget. Probably the first major document, the monetary document in which we reflect it, will be next year's RES. I have always found it somewhat incomprehensible why or how the Social Democratic Party is able to combine the fall in excise duty and the subsequent better tax collection with R &amp; D funding. But if you want to do this, it is not bad either, because it is true that as a result of our excise duty cuts, taxes were better collected. While these are not one of the same sums for one and there is no point in pairing them together, the fact is that taxes have started to get better. This year or, I'm sorry, let's just say that with this budget next year, R &amp; D funding will increase. It will increase to a very large extent and grow from 0.71% this year to 0.74% next year. If I remember correctly, in 2018 R &amp; D funding was less than 0.7%. If I remember correctly, I'm talking about the head right now, maybe it was 0.68% or somewhere around here. So R &amp; D funding is increasing. Teachers' wages are increasing. Is this increase as big as we wanted? No, it's not. This does not bring us closer to the target of 120% of the average wage, but it will help us not to lose the teachers' pay compared to the other salaries. It keeps pace with the wage increase that is generally on the market. One way or another, we made a great effort, because we recall that when we left the RES debate this spring, it was absolutely clear that it would not be possible to do a wage increase in the public sector next year. During the budget negotiations... [[Riina Sikkut comments on the floor.]] Well, you didn't, of course you didn't. During the budget negotiations, however, we have managed to find enough additional resources to ensure that small wage increases in important, priority, critical areas should be kept up with the overall wage increase in Estonia. It cannot be said that it comes from one, the other or the third. That's not true. 'Cause I'm gonna tell you again, there wasn't a dime on the top-up line in the spring. That, too, was where we were able to channel the budget into additional money during the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U169	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U170	Thank you. Dear Minister, Today, nearly 50% of pensioners live in relative poverty. Data from your ministry show that next year the relative poverty rate will be EUR 607, while the average old-age pension will be EUR 528. Now that we are talking about this figure, EUR 45, by which the pension for the 'average pensioner' increases, 38 euros have been obtained by indexation largely thanks to the Ukrainian labour force, which you are fighting against very fiercely, and the social tax on their wages. Before the elections, you have promised to double your average pension over the next four years to around EUR 800. This year, you have increased it exceptionally by EUR 7. It needs to be increased by nearly EUR 200 over four years. Where do you get that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U171	Thank you. But I said in my introductory speech that this money comes from economic growth in Estonia. Our main goal must be that the Estonian economy should grow quickly, be competitive, and that this growth would also lead to wage growth, as the pension will increase in relation to wage growth. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U172	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U173	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! My question is based on the hope that you have read and are aware of the state budget law. I'd like to know if you're ready to comply with this law. What's the matter? In fact, the law requires that, as a government finance minister, you are responsible for precisely this issue, which is the subject of the proposals of the Fiscal Council, which will do so in two weeks' time. You haven't done that so far. Are you going to comply with the law, and if you're going to, when?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U174	Thank you. I don't know how this public answer works. I've done several interviews, and that's a public response. I understand they're expecting a letter from me, but I honestly have to admit that this letter has not reached me and I have not signed it. But thanks for pointing out, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U175	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U176	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I am a little concerned about the issue of CO2 in the budget. Annex 4, entitled "External payments by fund and CO2 quota', indicates that 7.1 million CO2 will be generated. According to the section of the Ministry of the Environment, the sale of the CO2 quota amounts to 173.5 million and an additional 85000 from aviation. What is the difference in the budget, and where is it reflected in a comprehensive way? In addition, I am concerned that only 50% of the so-called revenue directly related to the climate will go to meet the objectives of climate policy and the rest will go elsewhere, and that there will be no way of seeing the revenue from the sale of the CO2 quota split between the various ministries and which projects are financed with this money. Why don't you enlighten me?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U177	Yes, the cost of CO2 revenues or CO2 costs is a cause for concern for all of us. One of the reasons why we have such a difficult situation in the power plants of Ida-Virumaa and Narva is the rapid increase in CO2 prices. The rapid increase in CO2 prices is a two-edged sword. On the one hand, this means an increase in the cost of electricity generation due to the price of one input. This is a very important input price, accounting for about a quarter of the current electricity price. On the other hand, since this quota is owned by the State and the State also sells the surplus quota, it is a revenue to the State. And the difference between these 7 million and 140 million is that 7 million is the additional money generated by the increase in the price of CO2 and 140 million is the total. Now, when it comes to the 50% distribution of income, it is a European rule, according to which at least half of this money must go to green investment. The real number is, of course, higher, because green investment covers a very wide spectrum of things. But I am not sure that its disassembly must have been done within the budget text. It is always possible for a member of the Riigikogu to send a written question to the Minister of the Environment; he will certainly specify it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U178	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U179	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In your response to Riina Sikkut, you somehow said that education and research costs would be covered by better excise duties on alcohol. As far as I am aware, the economic forecast underlying this budget shows that next year's alcohol duty will be EUR 3 million less than last year: 232 million last year and 229 million next year. You can comment on that. It is also about the death of rural areas and the salaries of teachers. You're about to return to the Aaviksoo order. I understand that the salary will be increased by 2.5%, but in the case of teachers, a minimum wage increase of more than 5% is required. This actually puts smaller municipalities with smaller schools and who have used 20% to keep classes smaller, to keep smaller schools close to home open. Why are you strangling the country like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U180	Thank you. How interesting that we hear completely differently what one person is saying. I thought I made it very clear that you're the one who tied the alcohol money, not me. If you want, we can talk about getting it. The numbers on me say that it's almost exactly the same amount, I see 227.1 million this year and 228.9 million next year. I don't have 2018 in my way. In this regard, it should perhaps be repeated that, until July, the collection of excise duties on alcohol was behind the forecast budget. In the first half of the year, the collection of excise duties on alcohol was behind the forecast budget. However, after the reduction of excise duties on alcohol, the collection of excise duties on alcohol has exceeded the budget forecast for all months. And this is now at a quarter lower rate. It doesn't mean it's going to be in the budget, does it? As far as the closure of small schools is concerned, I understand that the Social Democrats have agreed today that I must be taken to the bar by the extinction of rural areas. Well, okay. I don't really think it's possible to get a result here from this angle, but yes. I'm not even trying to answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U181	Thank you, Minister. Try to answer. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U182	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. In your introductory speech, you stressed that the government prefers investments that will ensure the welfare of society if I correctly quoted you. That's what my question is about. What investments in the 2020 budget do you think will support future growth? Specific examples, please. But the second question. Since your actions have been compared to those of Hercules and you brought this comparison to the Chamber of the Riigikogu yourself, then enlighten us. What did Hercules do besides kill his wife and three sons?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U183	Yeah, and eventually, a very painful death. Isn't that right? Thank you for your question. Well, if you want to ask about investments, I think I may not be able to unlock a billion here, but it is undoubtedly the investments in education that will contribute to the development of the Estonian economy. Increasing research funding is also an investment and building schools is an investment. In addition to this same school of beautiful arts, we also build elsewhere in Estonia, in rural areas, by the way. So I would specifically bring out investments in the educational network.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U184	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We wouldn't have much to say about the budget here if there were no good entrepreneurs, employers and employees in Estonia. I have remembered from your speech such a sentence that we need to increase the competitiveness of companies. I ask this simple question: which budget lines support this desire?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U186	Thank you. These budget lines, or today, when we have an activity-based budget, should be called budget programmes, in particular in the field of the Ministry of Education and Research and in the field of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Both the branch led by Taavi Aas and the branch led by Kert Kingo. And these measures are really very many, very different. Here are the amounts of aid for start-ups and export refunds and all that, including, for example, the participation of Dubai Expo. I think they all definitely count under it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U187	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of Finance! When you pushed through the reduction of excise duties in Parliament in June, you explained this by wanting to bring back millions or even hundreds of millions of euros of euros of alcohol that had travelled to Latvia as excise duty on alcohol, and you promised to restore the alcohol trade that had collapsed on the northern border. In August, you really welcomed the huge increase in the collection of alcohol excise duties, but in the budget and the draft we see an estimated amount of EUR 227.1 million for 2019 and EUR 228.9 million for 2020. As we know, 229 million alcohol duty was collected in 2017, so not even reached the 2017 level by 2020. The social dimension, in your view, is probably that more is drunk and must be done, on the basis of this budget, because, in order to collect this amount with a cheaper excise duty, you need to drink more, all right? But what is the fiscal dimension? This dimension doesn't look like it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U188	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U189	Thank you. I do not remember exactly how many members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of reducing excise duties on alcohol, but I think the number was over 70. I find it difficult to describe it as a push-through; I think it was the warm desire of the majority of the members of the Riigikogu. Now, in my opinion, it is not fair to compare the receipts for 2017 and to talk about the forecast for the 2018 budget. After all, we know that excise duty on alcohol raised in 2018 did not start to collect as it was supposed to. That's why we had to lower alcohol duty. These numbers weren't adequate. At the level of 2017, the budget may have come together in some way, but the revenue for 2018 did not come together. All the time, the figure actually received was reduced compared to what was recorded in the budget. Consequently, it was necessary to reduce the excise duty so that the reality and budget forecast could somehow be reconciled. Of course, I categorically disagree that the fact that Estonian people buy more alcohol than Estonia means that they also consume more alcohol. It's just not true. The alcohol consumption of Estonian people has not changed much compared to what it was before the fall in excise duty, but purchases have moved to Estonia. In addition, as you yourself pointed out, Finnish tourists have returned and there are considerable numbers. We have seen an increase compared to previous years, both in July, August and September, so that all the objectives that we wanted to achieve with this change in the tax rate have actually been met. So I think it's well done.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U190	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U191	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! Let me take a look back at the previous question. Putting the price of alcohol on account of the movement, increase and decrease of all tourism, on the Finnish side or anywhere else is not quite correct. I guess there's some other influences. But if we come to the social sphere, then the country-wide foreign resources are indeed used to create a leap of development. Very positive! In the social field, however, it is known that these funds are being used not only for development leaps, development, but also for the essential tasks of the state. My question relates to the fact that I do not see a reduction in external resources in the state budget, for example in the case of the social welfare programme, more than a quarter of the funding comes from the European Social Fund. How, then, do we create a cohesive society and prosperity for the less capable?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U192	I'd like to come to Finland first. Of course, only one thing is not decisive. Life is a little too complicated for one simple thing to change everything. There may be other reasons, of course, but it is difficult, I think, to argue that the fall in excise duty has an impact. On social cohesion, perhaps I would say a little more widely than being here on one budget line or another, that I believe that there is currently the broadest-bottom government coalition in Estonia that is possible at all. There are conservatives, there is a liberal party, there are nationalists, there is a party that receives the votes of Russian-speaking people in Estonia, there is a balance between the representatives of rural areas and the representatives of urban areas. We have a very well-balanced government in this sense. And this government, at least, I feel and see it, of course, I can only be subjective, but the regional policy is approaching with a completely different sense than what I could have seen and experienced before in the opposition. Let us not forget, too, that in Estonia most of the budget expenditure has been locked by law, we have a budget on a very autopilot. There is little room for manoeuvre to reflect 'political priorities' within the budget. For this reason, the government has launched a state budget review, which is already working at both political and institutional level, to review, among other things, the laws that lock us in or put us in the frame, but also to find waste in the state budget. I am generally satisfied with what we have been able to put into the social dimension of the budget. There's extra money in it, so-called soft values are clearly added to the extra money. Beauty is probably in the eyes of the viewer, but we do find that the social sphere has gained more money, for example, the salary of social workers working under the Ministry of Social Affairs. We have also added extra money for pensions, we have added extra money for some grants, we have added extra money for language houses, or integration. These are all the things that I realize that the opposition can't praise us for that, in fact, are good things.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U193	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U194	Thank you. Mr. Helme! You said that the government would allocate over EUR 70 million to build the eastern border. Unfortunately, in the next four years, this money will be EUR 3 million, which is seven times less than that allocated by the government of Taavi Clothes. That's the kind of data they sent us from the Homeland Department. When I asked your father in the State Budget Control Committee how you do it without money, he was upset and said that we were doing things differently. But the point was that an hour earlier, you had said exactly the same thing in the Committee on Monetary Affairs: we are doing things differently. My question then was how do you achieve a balanced budget with euro money, where income and expenditure are in balance and where there is also a reduction in the amount of money, over several years in a row. Open up that philosophy. At a time when everyone has been talking about reducing the dependence of euro money, ministers are talking about how they are spending there. And little of that, in the next three years, after the next financial year, hundreds of millions have been written simply to cover the budget revenue, i.e. to cover the balance. Open up that philosophy. How do you do things differently, without money, and with money that actually has a cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U195	Well, we'll do better, just do better. I'm going to read out some numbers. In 2019, i.e. this year, EUR 9.7 million went to border construction, EUR 12.6 million to 2020; EUR 14.5 million in 2021; EUR 15.7 million in 2022; and EUR 6 million in 2023. And by then, the limit should basically be finished. This includes the construction of a fence and the making of a service road throughout the eastern border. These are the numbers in the budget. The few millions that were spoken of are the numbers of the previous years. This border project, which we are doing, has been designed in such a way that it can, in future, be supplemented or improved. At first, less expensive observational techniques are needed, but later it is possible to add more observational techniques, so if you ever want to make the border more expensive, more beautiful and better, it is also possible. Now, as far as the use of external resources is concerned, I find it somewhat strange or amazing to listen to the criticism that the current government is using foreign funds in the process of Estonian budget and promoting the Estonian economy. Where do you think we learned that from? Who taught us that? Old governments, I guess. It has always been done in Estonia, it has always been done in Estonia. In this sense, there is nothing unusual or different about us. Perhaps the difference is that, as compared to a few years earlier, we are really about to have the end of the European Union budget period and the beginning of the next budget period, which, learning from two previous experiences, has really created a situation where the "foreign" share has fallen in the years between the two periods. Our sincere desire is also to realise that this reduction is to some extent inevitable, so that this reduction is as low as possible and as smooth as possible. This is already being done at both political and institutional level, so that these projects are ready, that they are in line with the policy envisaged by the European Union budget and with the national recommendations given to Estonia. That's what we're working for. And as far as the size of external resources is concerned, yes, the ratio of external resources to GDP in the next period is likely to decrease slightly. Not altogether. All in all, it stays more or less the same. We must also admit that the next budgetary period of the European Union has not yet been agreed. The heated debate is also about what is the target rate: is it more than 1% of GDP or exactly 1%? And there is a dispute between donor countries and recipients at European Union level. Moreover, in the coming years, in fact throughout the next decade, it must be taken into account that the European Union is planning quite a special fund for the transition of the economy to renewable energy or to move away from fossil energy. Estonia has a reasonable hope of getting its share of this fund, because we have a highly carbon intensive economy. However, this is not reflected in the budget at all; this part is currently not possible to plan anywhere financially, because it has not yet been agreed. There has been no agreement on the sale of the CO2 quota and not even on the CO2 quota we have for the next ten years, but it is clear that it will not disappear from us. And it is clear that CO2 prices will increase rather than decrease. I understand the opposition's desire to paint on the wall some kind of ghost or talk here and cause panic that everything will end right now, but it is not the case. In full peace, with full confidence, I can say that the failure of external funds will not take place overnight or abruptly. It's going smoothly, we're prepared for it. We have the experience of using budget resources efficiently and quickly over a number of previous budgetary periods. So I don't see why I'm panicking.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U196	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U197	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! It is clear that this bill will contribute to the demise of small rural schools. And as we know, we have a growing shortage of teachers in Estonian schools, not only in the country, but actually also in cities. The previous governments have very strongly raised the salaries of teachers by EUR 100 a year, so that the teachers' minimum wage almost caught up with the average wage in our country. On the other hand, your government, in which a number of government parties have committed to raising the minimum wage of teachers to 120% of the national average, has been able to record a small increase in teachers' salaries in the budget, but it is clear that the average wage is failing. Today, the minimum wage for teachers is only 88% of the average wage in the country. Why does your government contribute to the extinction of small rural schools and to the deepening of teachers' drought?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U198	I would honestly like to know on what basis this statement or statement is based on, that it is clear that our policy is either shutting down rural schools or contributing to their demise. I dare say that the most important reason for the closure of rural schools is demographic rather than wage policy. I personally know many of the principals of Tallinn schools, who are just as much in trouble with finding teachers, and here are their reasons. Pay isn't about them, by the way, the main thing. So in this sense, I reject such claims, and I disagree with them. Education policy disputes are, of course, always passionate disputes, and here, I think, we cannot go into them. But as far as pay is concerned, I think there is still some kind of insincere manipulation of this minimum wage talk, because we know that the percentage of the average teacher's salary is significantly better than the percentage of the minimum wage you bring me here all the time. There is some flexibility in paying teachers' salaries also for local governments and school leaders. So it is not really the case here that teachers receive 88% of the average salary. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U199	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U200	Thank you. Good Martin, I listened to your presentation and your previous answers to the questions, and I have to say that even Hercules can't speak seven euros for a hundred euros. But I don't want you to answer me about the emergency pension rise or incriminating yourself. I want you to assess whether the Centre Party deliberately lied when it went to the elections, promising an emergency pension rise of 100 euros, or lying about stupidity. For me, both options are open because I can see that in the last three years the budget has actually been reduced to 1 billion. But you, who are the new Minister of Finance, the first year of this place, have a chance to be completely objective about the things that happened a year ago. Make your assessment!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U201	Thank you for your excellent question. I do not take the right or the courage to comment on someone's life and on what is done consciously or unconsciously. I can give my assessment of the 2018 budget or the 2019 budget, recommending people to read the verbatim reports and votes of the Riigikogu. Here comes the assessment. So it is the policy of previous governments and the budget of previous governments, which I have assessed in my time as a member of the opposition of the Riigikogu. But today there's a new government, a new coalition with new principles, and he starts where the previous ones ended. And it's true that the previous ones ended up in minus. I'm not giving it any judgment other than what I've already said. But that's the minus we're dealing with. This budget is nominally balanced, but structurally negative, as I said. I do not think that we need to be ashamed of ourselves and that there is no need for acts of violence to speak of seven euros to a hundred, that is not necessary. The election promise will be verified at the next elections, not at the first budget reading. For the next elections, the promise that basically asked for votes in the elections must be fulfilled. So in this sense, there is still time to step up and we can move forward gradually. In order to protect my coalition associates who have been involved in budgeting in previous years, I said that in 2018 economic forecasts were universally much more optimistic than today. The budget included much bolder predictions, both on tax receipts and, of course, on costs. What's causing us a headache right now is that these costs were fixed costs. The decisions that were taken were not one-off investment decisions, but decisions that would be passed on to the next budget each year. That's what's giving us a headache right now. We will certainly come out of this in a number of different ways: firstly, by stricter control of costs, of course; secondly, as I have said many times, of course, we will do everything by the government to ensure that economic growth remains good and, in this respect, wage growth remains good and tax receipts in this respect remain good. This "locked" level of expenditure would gradually fall below or below the growing budget for economic growth. So there's no need to invent a bicycle here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U202	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U203	Thank you. Good minister! My question comes about climate policy. Clearly, considering the future, in preparation for the future, we now need to take a lion leap in the footsteps of a former tiger jump. There is a need to exit oil shale energy and make substantial investments in new technologies to support the creation of new smart jobs. Looking at this budget, it is clear that this budget does not support it. When we talk about the revenue from the sale of the CO2 quota, you are channelling it into climate action to the absolute minimum that is allowed at all. For example, when we talk about resource efficiency, you will reduce this measure by 39 million. Are man-made climate change and combating them even a priority for this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U204	Thank you. Well, now I've been set up in a nice political trap. On the subject of man-made climate change, society, throughout the world, continues to have a controversy about whether climate change is happening at all; if it is happening, whether it is man-made; if it is man-made, whether it is within the human capacity to change them or whether it is more reasonable to adapt. But let's leave this debate for another day. I do not agree with your argument that next year's budget and the Estonian state will not be dealing with the transition to a cleaner and smarter economy. I would point out, among other things, that we are planning to increase Eesti Energia's capital so that Eesti Energia invests in oil production and instead of generating electricity, it will be worth oil shale in this way. We have decisions taken by the government on rail electrification included in the budget. The share of wind energy in Estonia is constantly increasing. We are channeling extra money into research development, where this knowledge of how to make a smarter and more energy-efficient economy should come from. But it is also true that there is a need to be very quiet and smart here. As long as we do not have any reasonable alternative to oil shale electricity, we will not be able to exclude our oil shale electricity, it is simply not conceivable. No responsible government can do that. And just like that, there are no real solutions, I can't see them anywhere else in the world. We can talk about some large countries that have decided to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, some by 2035. But if, for example, I talk to European finance ministers at the ECOFIN meeting and ask how you do it, then the answer is that it is our political will. So we may have this political will, too, but if you ask what these measures are, then these measures are still on the ground with two legs, such as the enhancement of oil shale through oil production rather than electricity generation, for example by electrification of transport. But now, with regard to the resource efficiency measure, the resource efficiency measure did not work. This was not the case and the measure did not work. Perhaps this measure was misproclaimed, misbuilt, but if the money is not used there, then of course it must be used elsewhere. I do not understand why you are making such a vicious assumption that we are spending this money on non-green investments. In fact, there hasn't been any sign of spending that money yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U205	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U206	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Instigating your response, I must say that not the Social Democrats, but the government has presented a budget to the Riigikogu that will put the countryside to death. You are cutting down on rural support measures that have a significant impact on living in small towns, for a total of EUR 65 million. In order for you to understand what you are doing, I will enlighten you on the budget: a cut of EUR 5.9 million in the construction of a high-speed internet network, a reduction of EUR 11.9 million in the support for renovation of apartment buildings, a reduction of EUR 11.9 million in the rental housing programme, a reduction of EUR 900000 in the support for the construction of electricity networks, etc. Please tell me why you are cutting these support measures with a significant regional impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U207	Thank you. Now we've figured out where the dog is buried, this program of your rental homes. Okay. Yes, not all these measures, and all these programmes do not really promote the whiny countryside. You might wonder, " Can this money do more and better? ' I think there are ways to make better use of this money. Most of the money you are talking about right now is, of course, money from foreign funds, which either has not been wanted to be used more, or there have been other reasons why it has not been put into use. This has been said several times in a number of areas, including infrastructure investments, where application rounds have run or have not worked properly, or where disputes have arisen with any procurement, or where some measures have simply run out and new ones have not yet been created. In this sense, it is absolutely true that the use of euro money is very volatile for us from year to year, jumping up and down. In some years, there is a lot of money going on, in some years less. So the argument that we have suddenly canceled or reduced regional spending is not really true. However, it is true that, if I look now, I will also find this number, but I am afraid that I will not find it immediately, that next year the amount of funds allocated to local authorities will increase to a very large extent, in particular by the increase in personal income tax. As much money as local authorities receive in their budgets next year, they have never received. These amounts are, in fact, significantly higher than the amounts you are talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U208	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The forecast of the state's cash flows does not show any surplus or balance or deficit, but according to the law it must be shown. I couldn't find that information in the explanatory memorandum and I asked for it separately. The cash-flow budget is down to EUR 453 million. Well, it also includes a scheduled repayment of 170 million. In addition, you will give Eesti Energia a large amount of money, just as Eesti Energia itself could not borrow. But there's still a couple hundred million out there, which makes it impossible to figure out where the money is going. You're going through foreign law firms and you're promising to bring billions of euros into the budget, but the first budget you're doing here is that 450 million euros are going out of the treasury. Please explain what's going on!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U210	Thank you for your question. The cash flow of the State is not the same as the position of the state budget. 453 million will be a negative stream next year. Of this, the state budget position is +27 million; the tax adjustment between cash and accrual-based income is Other financial transactions amount to 1 million, which is actually our reserve interest. And that's $453 million. I hope that the answer was exhaustive.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U211	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If you indicated in your replies that the forecasts for 2018 were wrong, then you actually translated to the wider crowds that the elections were coming and that they were also reflected in the forecasts. You also referred to the fact that you are not Hercules, but you are a very good Minister of Finance. And once you mentioned that a good finance minister has to do certain things. You have the opportunity to make a surplus of the budget, to mitigate risks and not to get into unpleasant over-expenditure, and that is why we think it will be evaluated at some point. My question is that, although you are very sceptical about global climate change and other issues, one thing that has now come to my attention about this issue was the renovation of so-called apartment buildings, or insulation. I do not remember exactly, but the EUR 1 that is being invested in it will give several euros back, I mean energy saving, the cash flow of families living there, etc. Well, that sounds like a very reasonable investment. I ask why the planned money hasn't been put in there. It's so profitable. The country could put tens of times more money in it. Why has this not been the case with this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U213	Thank you. First of all, I thought I did some self-irony on the subject of Hercules, but maybe I didn't. The insulation of apartment buildings is a very popular measure. Following the opening of applications, all money will be reserved very quickly. The main failures that arise are three types. Firstly, the building associations themselves cannot agree on renovation plans. There are different reasons for this: whether there are any disputes at the general meeting or whether there are any disputes between the owners of the dwelling. And it is often because of this that this reserved money is not used. Another reason is that there will be long negotiations with banks on co-financing, which will not be completed by the time the reserved money is put into effect. And the third reason is that the construction market situation is so tense that after having completed all the projects and financing plans and other things, simply no builders or stranded construction procurement will be found. Although this so-called measure is immediately put away and reserved, it is not really possible to implement it. Only the private sector can do anything here. We may, of course, also change the conditions by the state and transfer this money and shift it to the next few years, but if it is actually a private sector measure and there is a failure in the private sector, then the country does not have very simple solutions here. But what I can say is that knowing how popular this measure is, knowing how beneficial it is for the economy as a whole, knowing that it also counts as climate investment, we are putting a great deal of emphasis on it. This is also a priority for the next budgetary period of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U214	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I am actually repeating my concern about the structural minus of this budget. If I remember correctly, it will be 0.7% in 2021. And I think you said at the beginning that by 2022 you're planning... Sorry, it is planned to be 0.2% by 2021. But it's hard to believe. If we look at the Ministry of Finance's papers from summer 2018, the structural minus 0.1% was forecast by 2020, in fact it is 0.7%. But then, of course, there was another finance minister. You're not saying that the increase in the structural minus is linked to your becoming a finance minister, are you? And another question related to this: why are you harassing local governments with money from municipal and urban roads? The budget for next year will be 20% less than this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U216	Yeah, I couldn't find out about the municipal funding until I looked. Next year, 84 million money will increase to local governments, which is also a very large amount of money. Road funding, especially for local roads, has been a child of pain for many years. I agree that this money is too small, that there is a serious debt to repair. But it is a constant process in this sense that there is also a whole range of activities that can be shifted between the years, that if you don't do this year or next year, you can still do it next year. As regards the structural balance of the budget, the next year, 2020 will be a structural minus 0.7%. By 2021, we are forecasting a structural minus 0.2%. But in the meantime, what has changed since the RES period is that Statistics Estonia re-evaluated the entire time series of economic growth in Estonia, I can't remember whether they took the starting point as a starting point in 1992 or about the beginning of the century and, as a result of the revaluation of the entire time series, the volume of the Estonian economy, the size of GDP, increased. As a result of complex structural formula models, it was found that 2018 minus is significantly higher than previously estimated. This means that the minus of 2019 was adjusted downwards, so the minus got bigger, and our starting position, from which we're going to come out of our structural hole, as the law says, half a percent a year, moved deeper. That's why these numbers changed like that. And this is not a mistake about the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, but it is about the fact that the background system was essentially shifted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U217	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U218	Thank you. Good minister! My question is motivated by your expression of how you go to the Ministry every day and think about how to do good to your constituents. Before the elections, you said at the EKRE Council meeting that the Government of Jüri Ratas should acknowledge the failure of the income tax reform as it goes against the wallet of working pensioners. In your economic programme, you promised to exempt pensions from income tax at all. But let's come to today, come to reality. What's happened? Your government is the first to start taxing the average pension. A person who receives an average salary loses 300 euros a year due to a fall in the tax-free minimum. And both of these problems are getting worse. So, what kind of promises did you make to the voters? Which ones do you want to fill? As you yourself said, the next moment of truth will come in four years, or perhaps three and a half years. Is this moment of truth good for you or rather bad?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U219	Thank you. Well, if we all had a crystal ball here to see what happens in three and a half years, it would be a lot easier for all of us to have a policy. But, well, I'm gonna put aside that assessment of the income tax reform. Anyone who wants to go into the details can look from the verbatim reports at how the Conservative People's Party Group voted and what speeches we made in this regard. We anticipated the same problems that have arrived today, but now the question is whether we are optimists or pessimists. Is the glass half full or half empty? You see the problem of people's incomes growing, but I think it's good. People's incomes are growing. They are no longer poor, so they no longer need such a tax credit. That's good.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U220	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I, as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs, do not fully understand how the social sector has gained substantial resources. For example, the Ministry of Social Affairs asked for 4 million euros to promote mental health, receiving zero euros. For the long-term care programme, EUR 19 million was requested and EUR zero was received. For example, in order to expand the children's house service to Ida-Virumaa, the Ministry had to find money from its own resources, and in order to keep the victim help phone running, the Ministry had to find funds from its own budget. Now, 117 million of the 2020 budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs is the European Union's resources and offers a number of everyday services. My question is this: have you seen, in the Ministry of Social Affairs, an exit strategy for using EU money? You said you were before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U221	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U222	Thank you. Yes, I would point out that the Ministry of Social Affairs has the highest share in the Estonian state budget. They receive about 40% of GDP and about half of the state budget is in the hands of the Ministry of Social Affairs. If they find funds of a million or several million out of the many billions they have to use, they should still be taken as normal. There must certainly be some flexibility in this volume, and there must certainly be an opportunity to be more effective in finding savings and redirecting money to priority areas. So I think it's really great when the ministries find their own resources to do something about it. I would also like to point out that the resources of the Ministry of Social Affairs will increase by EUR 26,6 million in 2020. Of this, 20.8 is an extraordinary pension increase. In addition, EUR 1 million will be additional funding for cancer screening, EUR 1.3 million will be an increase in the salaries of institutions and social welfare workers in the area of government, and EUR 1.7 million for non-working pensioners, the Health Insurance Fund. It does not yet reflect all the automatic increases due to the law, more simply the indexation of the pension or the increase in the sickness fund, or they are, in any case, separate social security funds, such as the unemployment fund. Growth in this area is significant and the main source of this growth is, of course, wage growth, which is the so-called yardstick in many social areas. In no way can I agree that there will be no additional funding for the social sector. The social sector is clearly a priority area in this budget, and money is channelled into it for a number of purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U223	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U224	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I will continue on this subject. The government's priorities and the budget do not match. Your words and those in the budget don't match. Let it be mentioned, even in the social sphere, in which I agree with Liina Kersna, that there has actually been no increase in the amounts requested, despite the fact that you confirm that everything is there and that everything should be found in the internal reserves. But the most incoherent is the answer given to Jürgen Ligi, with which you and your father in the committee confirmed that you are doing things differently. At the same time, you told Jürgen that you would learn from previous governments and do exactly as you did before. Do you do it differently or the same? And in answer to me, you said that the teachers' average wage as a ratio to the average salary would remain at the same level. However, the explanatory memorandum states that it will fall significantly from 102% in next year to 88%. Which, then, is the truth of your confirmation that the teachers' pay will remain on the same level, or what is stated in the explanatory memorandum that the pay will fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U225	Thank you for your question. We will, of course, learn from other governments, earlier governments. We learn to use good things and avoid bad things. That is what a wise person learns from the mistakes of others, not from his own. I really haven't discussed or calculated this percentage of teachers' pay in this key. And I agree with you, I fully agree with you that the increase in teachers' salaries was not what the government would have wanted. It is not in line with our political objective; it is not enough. I totally agree, there's nothing to argue about. But that was what we were able to achieve at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U226	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the President's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U227	So, let's continue with the state budget for 2020. In the order of the question, Kalvi is the Hard. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U228	Thanks! I would like to start by allowing myself one comment. As the Minister said, perhaps much better things could be done in other places instead of channeling money into the country and the countryside. Really, rural life is expensive and rural life is expensive, so we must contribute more to the country as a country. Now from the local government's income base. Indeed, as the Minister pointed out, 84 million is the amount that goes to the local government's income base, although it must be said that the proportion of the local government's income tax or income tax received by the local government is 83 million. This shows that the wealthier are likely to become even more prosperous, and those municipalities that have to live on the Equalisation Fund will remain poorer. Perhaps here too, there is a tendency to destroy the countryside. But my question is: how is it that the money on the local roads is falling? We know how bad they are. Why didn't the government find any extra resources here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U229	Thank you. Can we please call off the rhetoric that we are destroying the countryside or that it will be destroyed? This isn't an adequate story. Of course, there is regional imbalances in Estonia. This is a very serious concern for this government. In the end, there is a special minister for who is dealing with the levelling of regional imbalances, the Minister of State Administration. It's a government priority. Of course, very rapid wage growth and, as a result, increasing income tax on a natural person will help those municipalities with a large number of employees and with a large number of recipients in the first place, this is clearly reflected in their budget. But the fine-tuning fund will give you more money and next year the local government's revenue will be 2.3 billion euros. The local government roads receive 29 million euros. I don't know any local governments that don't get any more money. It is, of course, a typical socialist story that some will get more than others and then it will be bad. I don't think envy is a good thing. You have to be happy when others do well. In fact, there are no municipalities in Estonia that would not get more money. So I just can't accept this rhetoric.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U230	Thank you. To begin with, I hear relatively controversial views in the words of the Minister. For example, when replying to Andres Sut, he invited Sutt to cooperate in order to make the budget more transparent, the Minister agreed that our budget was not transparent enough, but in reply to me, the Minister considered that there was no reason to dismantle investments under the CO2 quota. There's a slight contradiction. But my question comes from a completely different area. I'm gonna find a very nice line here called 'Stage II of Haapsalu Railway', but unfortunately, I only see 2 million back here. Given that the cost of the Haapsalu railway is at least 90 million, I am very concerned that there will be clear zeros in the coming years. My concern is that in this case, this 2 million could also be wasted money. How and for what means do you intend to complete the Haapsalu railway?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U231	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U232	Thank you. Two isn't zero, right? Two are two and EUR 2 million is the money needed to design the railway or those parts that have not yet been designed. After all, the government has decided to electrify the railway in Estonia as a whole. For this we can use, by the way, much of the CO2 money and the addition of the Haapsalu railway here is planned and decided by the government. It must be emphasised, however, that everyone knows this, but I would like to emphasise once again that in September, the government is making a budget, not a national budget strategy, so we are dealing with 2020. Yes, in the process of making the state budget, there may be some numbers that "extrapole" into the next few years, but the government will not focus in September on the RES, or the view of four years, but will focus on the view of next year. In April next year, we will be doing the RES for the next four years, the country's budgetary strategy, and the amounts or activities you have now asked about will certainly be reflected in the RES next spring. As far as the distribution of CO2 money is concerned, I still want to make it clear that, by chapter, the state budget is written by sectors or ministries themselves. The Ministry of Finance tries to harmonise this as much as possible and usually asks for additional information. If you give an overview of how CO2 money is used in Estonia, you have to say that it is very distributed, it is not only under the Ministry of the Environment, there are measures taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and the Ministry of Education also uses this money, etc. Making such an overview is quite a big job, but I think that this review will certainly help and benefit all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U233	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance, you're a little funny. You said that expenditure has to be cut because the budget has been structurally negative and it is likely that there will be about a billion cuts in expenditure over the next four years. At the same time, you say it must be done step by step, it must not be done suddenly. You can only agree with that. But I see you haven't done it at all. Next year's costs will increase by EUR 252 million. I propose that this budget be renamed, for example, a sports budget or a football budget, because there will be 6 million euros for investments in football, a whole million more than the top-up of the entire agricultural sector in Estonia, and that is a third of the amount that is expected to reduce poverty by 7 euros. What if it's an Estonian sports budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U235	Thank you. I'm really glad you pointed that out. It did not fit into my speech, but I wanted to boast with it, of course, that we are making four full-scale sports halls in Estonia. Next year, we will start doing them, and this is really estimated to cost EUR 6 million. This is something that the coalition itself is very proud of and satisfied with. So I'm glad you pointed that out. Of course, there are a lot of choices to be made in the budget where you put the money and where you don't put it. But as for whether or not there is a cut, yes, the costs are just under 300 million, but the revenues are just under 800 million. That's the same thing we're always talking about here, that when the economy grows, the tax receipts grow, the whole volume grows. But in this case, the costs are still going to increase significantly more slowly than the revenues, so we are going towards this equilibrium point, which is the goal, and which is good. I would ask all members of the opposition a rhetorical question. If I were you, I'd be careful if you laughed at the retirement rise or shot it. A member of the Riigikogu or government who still has a very decent salary may not have a very good sense, which means 7 or 45 euros to a person who is constantly hungry for money. It's important money! I have never met anyone in my life who would find that he has too much money or that his income is growing too fast. I also don't know any pensioners who think he's getting too much pension, that the pension increase is bigger than he needs. But it's not a small pension increase, and it gets people really into it. Believe me, people can be grateful for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U236	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U237	Thank you. Mr. Minister! In answer to my first question concerning the collection of alcohol duty scheduled for 2020 compared to 2017 (2017 was even greater than the expected receipts in 2020), you finally said one sentence: 'Well done! ' I got it, it was about adopting the bill. I very much like you not to comment on what you might have felt or what Jüri Ratas thought when he promised the poster a pension increase of EUR 100 by 2020. You're right. I know that pensioners are in a difficult situation, and they do not have enough money that they do not want more, but on the contrary, they are in such a difficult situation that they really need much more than the average of EUR 45. But I'm asking you about one of your promises. On your way to the election, you promised the average salary or minimum wage to your relatives. In the meantime, there was variation, after going to the program with a minimum salary. What if this minimum wage is among the grants granted to local governments? We know that this is precisely what local authorities are paying for. Is it hidden in there? You said it was the biggest money going to local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U238	Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm not. This topic was up in the coalition negotiations; it was discussed seriously. Hardly any coalition party has any substantive objection to social measures for the benefit of people in the most distressed situations, which is not the most expensive measure. But the negotiations were not able to figure out where the cover would come from, and it is currently not available. I don't think it makes any sense for me to explain in this Chamber that the coalition government does so, that no party can fulfill its whole package of programmed promises. There is no doubt that the Social Democratic Party, which has also been in government, knows that just wanting is not enough to raise pensions, child benefits or everything else. Reality always comes out financially from time to time. If he doesn't make it, the next Minister of Finance could be struggling with a balanced budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U239	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U240	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In response to Jürgen Ligi about foreign funds, you managed to improve well without answering. You said the others did before us. Will the actions of the previous governments legitimize the behaviour of today's government? To be precise: indeed, about 98% of the State Budget Act is covered by special laws. In response to Liina, you once again said that the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs is such a large part of the total budget that within this budget, funds can be increased and the necessary activities can still be carried out. Whether this can be done at the expense of pensions guaranteed by law or at the expense of child benefits or parental benefits was somewhat unclear. But when it comes to the fact that others did before, it is true that the previous government has the word 'previous' used the resources of the European Social Fund for public services...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U241	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U242	... which has long been in the law, to finance, be it rehabilitation service for children, assistance service for adults...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U243	Please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U244	Is this the way you behave, making room in the budget to fulfil your coalition pledges, and is this a sustainable way to look to the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U245	Thank you. First of all, however, we come to the fact that, in every ministry's budget, I say this, knowing very well that all my colleagues in the government are going to puke at it, there is a certain amount of manoeuvring space. Always, absolutely always. The greater the budget size, the greater the amount that can be moved. In this sense, it must be said that we have a very common attitude, the attitude of ministries towards the state budget, which is like that of the Caribbean pirates, to take everything that can be taken, and to give nothing back, but it is not possible to do so. It is necessary to be inventive, to be flexible and to understand and to find out whether there are some activities that do not actually produce results, but are simply in the budget because they have always been. You have to look at it. Now about sustainability. I think that we have done a great deal of work in September this year, both during the country's budgetary strategy and during the budgetary discussions, to ensure that our budget is sustainable. We have significantly improved the course or trend. This direction, which we are heading towards by keeping our budget balanced, is, in my opinion, completely adequate and reasonable. It must be taken into account, however, that we do not go the easy way of resisting by inventing and imposing some kind of tax that will hardly come into practice or harm the economy. I think that makes a lot of sense. I must say, having had a lot of contact with the planning and use of euro money during my term of office, that there are also options for using this money sensibly or more rationally and how it can be redirected and flexibly moved to different areas. It's quite possible. There's nothing unusual about it. This is done by other countries and has been done by earlier governments in Estonia. This money must be used with maximum efficiency. Now the comment that we have made the country's fixed costs on account of euro money. This has been done in Estonia for many years and this is not right. I agree that this is not right. [[A voice from the hall.]] Oh, it's been done for years. It doesn't make sense and it's not right. One part of this state budget review, and one part of this year's budget, is to look at how we can move money in such a way that we do not deceive ourselves or the public by covering some kind of expenditure with euro money. I am very well aware of this problem. But to say we're dealing with some kind of crime or fraud, it's just not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U246	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U247	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I read from the draft budget that IT investments will decrease and, in particular, they will decrease in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, almost 22% will decrease in this ministry. At the same time, the government argues that it is not possible to submit draft legislation to stop higher taxation on parental leave or to exempt average pensions from income tax, and the reason for this is that there is no IT solution. Why are you acting like this? Why are you doing stupid things? On the one hand, you take away the money and on the other hand, you say that you cannot do the necessary things because IT solutions are not ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U248	Thank you. That's a very relevant question. I don't think there's any need to explain again in this hall what a train accident is called "SKAIS2. It follows a train crash called SkiIS1. I cannot tell by heart what terrible tens of millions of euros have been drowned in this swamp, but there is no result. The fact is that the Social Insurance Board is working on an IT solution held together with snot and wire, which is intended to be replaced for a long time and which will be delayed at all times because the new IT solution will not work, will not be implemented. There's always some kind of procurement problem. The reason IT money doesn't come in there is because there's nothing to give it away for. It's not ready for a program to pay for. The money is actually allocated and not small. Here was the question before: why are we not moving the income tax-free limit for pensioners? One reason was that it would take two years for this same IT solution to be implemented by the Social Insurance Board. I am not going to tell you what a puzzle the government was in, whether it is really possible in e-Estonia, but in practice it turns out that it is possible. So there is certainly no place to close or to save. On the contrary, I think the government will be fully prepared to give more money if we can get something in return for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U249	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U250	Thank you. Good minister! Your last answer only gave me more questions. First of all, your response gave the impression that Estonia was not among the countries that have already decided to move to a negative climate-free economy by 2050, the so-called climate-neutral economy. How is it, then, why are you giving such controversial signals that you have to go somewhere and talk to the countries that have decided to do so, as if Estonia did not belong to them? Secondly, this talk about investment in an oil plant for taxpayers' money and its presentation as a climate measure is still a vicious self-deception. We need to get out of oil shale energy, not gradually and progressively prolong our dependence on the past. Are you really saying that the government has already taken the decision to make an investment that will soon become uncompetitive? Thirdly, given this draft, I still have to repeat my previous question: is combating man-made climate change, reducing the climate impact of human activity a priority for the 2020 budget or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U251	Thank you for your question. I don't know who we are, who we have to stop using oil shale and oil shale energy. The government isn't planning this. We want to maintain Estonia's energy independence, power export capability, jobs in Ida-Virumaa, reasonable electricity prices and all that. Yes, there are far more reasonable ways to earn oil shale than to produce electricity from it. This transition is planned; it is going smoothly, without major social bubbles or upheavals in the North-East Estonia region. I absolutely disagree with the argument that oil shale oil is an unimaginable thing. At least for the next 10 to 15 years, this is a very promising thing, a very promising thing from the point of view of making the investment back. What technology will be like in 15 or 10 years, what is the political reference system, it will not be possible to predict today. Perhaps by then some new technologies have also been found in energy, which indeed show that the use of oil shale as oil is not rational. But let us not forget that oil shale is one of Estonia's most valuable minerals. Not using it to increase our national wealth is, in my opinion, completely irresponsible. It is necessary to find a real use for oil shale in order to increase economic prosperity in Estonia. It is, in addition to everything, our so-called common property or the property of the people, the property of the earth. I understand that we have different opinions on this issue, but there is certainly no point in trying to draw any shyness from me in protecting oil shale. No, it's not gonna work. I don't see any contradictions here. What I would do is to make a clear distinction between clean environment and environmental protection and climate policy. Climate policy is one big warm air, right, but a clean environment is an important thing that should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U252	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U253	Thank you. Mr. Minister! When ministers went to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to introduce their budget, there was a feeling that they were talking about a different budget than the one presented to the Riigikogu. If I listen to your answers today, it's exactly the same thing, you get the feeling that you have some kind of budget and we have another budget on the table. So I suggest you pick up, read through the budget you presented to us, and then talk to the ministers, then you'll understand what this is all about. But my question concerns what you did not say in reply to one of the previous questions. What is the exit strategy for using EU funds? It doesn't look like anything from this budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U254	Thank you. We have repeatedly come to the point that beauty is in the eyes of the viewer, we see something quite different in this budget than the opposition sees. But the exit strategy, I think, is somehow over-mystified. First of all, I say once again, the budget period for 2020 is still running, indeed, certain programmes are running out. At the same time, we have the performance reserve that Aivar Sõerd was talking about. Totally real money, isn't it? From 2021 there will be a new period, which will not actually be smaller in terms of amounts. Co-financing is bigger, I agree. In terms of GDP, this money is smaller than it was so far, I agree. However, we are talking here only about the seven-year budget period of the European Union. This is complemented by a fair transition fund and green investment funds. If we now put all these together, in the next nine or ten years, until the end of the next decade, we will not be talking about a total reduction in the current trend, given the current forecasts, based on what we know about the budget negotiations and other measures planned in the European Union. In this key, the exit strategy is something that is needed for the end of 2020. We're all statesmen here, but I don't think we're thinking so much about budgetary events in eight or nine years' time today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U255	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U256	Thank you. Good minister! Here, questions of varying detail and weight have been addressed. Let me ask you one more big question. If there's one thing I don't see in this budget, it's a bigger view of the future. It concerns demography, it concerns the same climate and, in fact, it concerns e-state. We know that the population is ageing. This has an impact on health expenditure, pensions. It relates to the second pillar. Yes, I understand that technically I cannot give a number in this budget because there is no law yet, but as a direction, as an intention, I think, it would have been appropriate to mark it here. Similarly, the climate, it is a trend, climate warming also depends on the action of all of us. I think it is crucial that we, as a country, also contribute positively in this direction. My question relates to e-state. The same example of pension: the pension cannot be exempt from income tax, therefore...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U257	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U258	...not technically prepared for this. Is this a matter of priority, or is there another reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U259	Thank you. I really like the big picture questions. Then let's start at the back. The Estonian state spends 130 million euros a year on IT developments. I think it's a very considerable amount. It goes into different areas and for different activities. Some are so-called "developments," some are some kind of "on-going" activities, some are "receipt fees," this picture is well-written. But if we take all IT expenditures together, they will be in the order of EUR 130 million. We can discuss this. Most areas say that money is actually needed more, but it is neither new nor unusual in the state system. Rather, the problem is that a large number of agencies and sectors carry out their own tasks and carry out parallel activities. Against this, a separate IT minister has been set up in this government, one of whose tasks is to coordinate IT developments. We are very typical of public authorities buying up developers from each other, hiring them from each other over so-called, and then things are going to go better in one place, and they're going to stop at another place. Such things are very common in small Estonia. The same programme licence pays the soul price for the different institutions, right? There's a lot of air in here. The problem in the IT area is that we have achieved a good new level at some point and then are left to rest on our laurels. These systems are ticking, but as we know, IT systems are aging rapidly. In order to achieve a new quality, more investment would be needed than the existing current cost. So I think that the fact that we have created an IT minister's position in the government and that he needs to critically review the whole system and find ways to make it effective within it clearly shows the government's priority. If we get a clear understanding or an idea of which IT investments are also multi-segmented, we all know that the patsy boys would like to make a new development every year, because to them it is just exciting for us as a country or as a public sector, then we have the capacity and the willingness to channel sufficient resources into it. Demography. We now have, in my opinion, a government that considers demography to be more important than any previous Estonian government. Again, we have a special minister for this, the Minister of Population, we have a special committee for this in the Riigikogu. Here, the activities that we are planning to do in the course of the so-called state reform and budget review run together very nicely. We have a whole number (I can't say the exact number), I think about 30 support measures for families and children. Some of them are such puffing between their fingers, some are much bigger and more effective. Also in terms of the state budget: some lines have a very small amount, some are very large. If we can make a proper review to find out which of these measures is working effectively to ensure that Estonia has a higher birth rate and that Estonian children grow healthy and educated, and then we will concentrate this resource on those activities that are effective, then it would be an approach to demographics with a long plan. But I come to the reform of the second pension pillar. Totally consciously, at the time of the budget, the government decided that we would not put the effects of this reform into this budget, that is the subject of the RES. By then, the bill will be a law, we'll have all the impact analyses done. Its effects we see in spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U260	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U261	Mr. Minister! The question has already gone through today that in the draft budget for 2020 the government has taken EUR 39 million out of the resource efficiency measure for businesses and has channelled it into other areas. You replied to your colleague here some time ago that it was taken away because the measure did not work. It's not correct. The investment required a resource audit, which is why many companies were carrying out audits to apply for investment projects in order to ask for money for investments in the following rounds. It also confirms that you were wrong, the fact that there are 22 million in the budget for follow-up activities once the projects have already received money. The withdrawal of 39 million resource efficiency measures could result in 124 million resource savings and added value of 216 million. The legitimate expectation of companies to receive investment support is no less important, as they have done preliminary work in carrying out audits. Where did the government specifically target this money, and why was it considered more important than increasing the resource efficiency of companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U262	Thank you. There were a lot of numbers here. I argue, in principle, that we are counting on some kind of economic growth on a euro measure that has not been asked and distributed here, and then we say that we have damaged the economy. If the measure does not work, if there are no applications or if they cannot be finalised in time and implemented, if the private sector is unable to start this activity (it is actually a co-financing activity for the private sector), then the programme did not work as it had to. As has been said once before, we know that it is extremely popular with housing associations or private houses, and it has not been so popular with companies. There may be different reasons, I'm not into it, but that is the fact, and this is the information we had at the time of making the budget, that there was no money available and that this money could be used differently. It is quite clear that the resource efficiency measure will remain with companies in the coming periods. This experience is being learned, this measure is being adjusted, it will be allowed to apply for this money in some subsequent period, and maybe it will be more successful next time. But I don't see any embarrassment or embarrassment here. If there's untapped money somewhere that stands, and we need to pursue efficiency in the budget, will we leave it lying there because someone will say afterwards that maybe he could still have been used? It's not rational.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U263	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U264	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of Finance! Last year, at the second reading of the 2019 state budget, Martin Helme, a member of the Riigikogu, took this view: 'What are we going to say about this budget? Let's just say it's a disgusting distribution of candy money on a huge scale. This is the most depressing deal before the election, where voters are buying votes for their own money. This is the worst example of state capitalism. This is the worst and most genuine example of populism, and precisely because the essence of this budget is not to develop one, another or third thing and to promote the life of Estonia, but to buy votes in elections with the voters' own money. " In today's government, there are two partners the same as in the previous government, one has changed. So what's changed now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U265	Thank you. The third partner has changed. But the fact that two partners remained in the elections shows that they therefore made the right contribution to the budget. Maybe it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U266	Thank you. Good minister! I'll pick up where you stopped answering my question first. You said the glass was half full. I understand that a half-full meant that next year, the average old-age pensioner is going to receive 528 euros, the right person who should cover the current expenditures of today's government and start paying income tax. I would remind you that in 2017, the relative poverty threshold was EUR 523. If the average pensioner pays the income tax from EUR 528, he will receive EUR 522.4, which means that he will get into relative poverty. Do you really think it is the pensioner who has to cover your running excesses and as a result fall into relative poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U267	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U268	Thank you. You still think I'm Hercules, that I can lift people out of relative poverty in six months. I can't. But yes, this government has not written this income tax law. In creating this income tax regime, it was known from the outset that because it is not mobile borders, but it is fixed, sooner or later people's income will start to move out of that amount as wage growth progresses. This shouldn't come as a surprise to anyone. The first surprise survived those people who had already received a higher pension, which was taxed when the law came into force. By this day, I think the public has somehow made it clear to themselves that income tax exemption is decreasing in terms of income. After all, we have had a time when the income tax-free share of wages was about 50 euros, not the current 500 euros. That's what he was that time. I don't have anything to argue with. When people's incomes grow, they move out of this untaxed threshold and people start paying income tax. Do we think it's bad? Certainly, there are not many people who want to pay tax. But when we ask the other side what it tells us, it tells us about the growth of the wealth of the Estonian people. It seemed to me in the old days that the Reform Party understood the principle of proportionality, understood that if there was the same tax rate, the amount paid for EUR 5000 and EUR 500, or also EUR 6000 and EUR 600, would still be significantly different. Right? That's where the difference comes in. I can say that the sitting government or this coalition has agreed not to change the tax system. It's what it is. Next year, as a result of wage growth and also of pension growth, even more people are likely to get out of the 500 euro limit. Whether we consider it depressing or wonderful that the income of the Estonian people is increasing, it depends on whether they are in government or opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U269	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U270	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I very much like it when you say that the state budget is a matter of choice. Of course it is. I also like that we should think about whether we can do something more or better for each sum. Once again, the government has planned a budget of EUR 4 million for roofing money. With this money, quite a number of structural problems could be solved, such as investing in suicide prevention and mental health programmes, paying off the professional year of clinical psychologists and school psychologists, which is currently being done by specialists themselves. However, are you still of the opinion that the roofing money system is transparent and the best way to distribute money?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U271	Thank you. We have already talked about budgetary transparency here several times today. On this point, I think that roofing money is the most transparent money in the budget at all. Everyone knows who it goes to, who set it, what it is and what it was done afterwards. The most transparent! We are talking here, aren't we, about a few tens of thousands or a few million in total, while a whole trainload of money travels somewhere in some kind of educational program or social program, hundreds of millions, and nobody really asks. On transparency, I do not share your criticism. About expediency. Look, I'm gonna wash my hands. Roof money, or regional investments, is the playground of the Riigikogu. I was a member of the Riigikogu and I played with this money, but the government does not interfere. This is the Riigikogu's money that it determines and decides. How he will agree on how this money will be distributed between the coalition and the opposition, how his ambassadors will be distributed within the political groups, you yourself will report in your electoral areas. I can say for my part that, during the budget negotiations, I proposed several times not to create a budget line for roofing money at all, but I was relatively lonely with my opinion. But it's the government's decision to put this 4 million in there, I stand behind the government's decision, just as we stand collectively behind all our decisions. I have nothing to argue with here. However, how this money is diverted is purely a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U272	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U273	I would like to thank the President of the sitting. Mr. Minister! I would like to ask you how justified it is, in your view, that there is a post of Minister for Foreign Trade and IT without a separate portfolio in the government. The news just came that your party partner and colleague in the government, Kert Kingo, did not tell the truth to the Riigikogu; the contract of employment with Jakko Väli was signed on his order. When I asked him about it on Monday, he tried to mislead the Riigikogu and make it look like he didn't know anything about it. Your party obviously cannot find a qualified and reasonable person in this place. You probably agree that Kert Kingo must resign. The second minister has failed in a short time. Would you be willing to consider losing this portfolioless minister's position and his apparatus and including it in the state budget for next year? I think that this would lead to significant savings for taxpayers' money and, in fact, to the end of this embarrassing situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U274	Yeah, well, a great presentation, somehow, it got stuck with the state budget. I have to say that I've been on the remote for almost three hours, I haven't read the news, I didn't follow the Riigikogu sitting on Monday either. I'm not in the information field enough to make any comment on what you've been talking about here. I say, of course, there are some sins that politicians are not forgiven, and one of them is lying. But I can't comment on this anymore, because I don't have enough information right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U275	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U276	Austet President! Good waitress! We have now made it clear here together that today's government has betrayed the hopes given to teachers. The minimum wage for teachers next year will not be approaching 120% of the national average, but will instead be moving away from it at quite high speed. What is your message, Mr Minister, to the Estonian faculty, when will the government fulfill this promise and bring the teachers' minimum wage to 120% of the national average? Will it happen in a year, in the next three years, or will it not happen at all during this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U277	Thank you. Thankfully, there was a break here, and I was able to ask about the teacher's salary. I learned that according to the calculations of the Ministry of Finance, the average salary of a teacher in Estonia is 104% of the Estonian average in 2020. But there is no point in talking about the minimum wage, because the minimum wage is not the one that is actually paid. We're talking about the average salary paid. We could talk about maximum, I could bring the maximum number, and then we'd just argue about that. There are certainly teachers in Estonia who receive very, very decent salaries, I think there is a salary close to that of a member of the Riigikogu. But we're still talking about the average. Teachers' pay in 2020 is 104% of the Estonian average, which, as I have already admitted, is not set at 120%. However, this objective has not disappeared and the money that has been added to the budget for next year will at least keep this situation going, so we will not be moving far away from that objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U278	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U279	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You know that Estonia continues to be the second largest in Europe in terms of the number of new cases of HIV positivity, I mean that we still have 17 new HIV positive people per 100000 inhabitants. The Health Risk Programme of the Ministry of Social Affairs promises that this figure will decrease from 2020 to 15. I'm sure you also know that one of the ways to reduce is to test more. In recent years, the state has paid extra money to family doctors to test their entire list. My question is whether the Ministry of Social Affairs has asked for this money in next year's budget, or whether the government itself is willing to continue to allocate extra money to family doctors so that this is not to be done on a list of bounty.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U280	Thank you. The Ministry of Social Affairs, of course, applied for extra money on a whole range of things (I have to remember what these things were at the moment), and applying for extra money for family doctors was clearly inside. I can now recall that money was wanted primarily for cancer screening, and that is where we were able to put more money. HIV prevention... I can't remember what we had on the table right now. But I certainly do not think that, at the time of reading the state budget, I should be able to talk by heart about the reference levels of the ministries' programmes, that cannot be the level of detail of this debate. I don't know how to comment on these numbers right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U281	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U282	Thank you. Good minister! Estonia also has an expert budget council. The Board has indicated that this fiscal policy is not appropriate to the current economic circumstances, that the budget deficit generated by the previous government should be reduced more quickly, that the country does not have a clear operational picture of the actual state of expenditure and that the situation of the previous year may be repeated if a huge deficit was discovered. Similarly, the economic environment is generally cooling down and has not been sufficiently taken into account in the preparation of the state budget. My question concerns what you are doing to respond to these complaints. How could you improve the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U283	Thank you. The Board, of course, went to the government to present its position when we had completed this budget. In short, this is all part of the process, they see the budget and make their assessment. Well, you've taken out all the negative messages that were there with a very fine sieve. This was not an unambiguous negative assessment, I must say, this assessment was so and so, there were some things for which we could even praise. But I particularly agree that this so-called operational picture needs to be corrected. By the way, the Board itself acknowledged that they, too, could not foresee it and could not immediately suggest what this method would be, how to behave in a situation where the economic situation is changing very quickly and tax receipts are decreasing very rapidly, but at the same time the budget is thundering on. As if there really was no major recession, there was some very steep fluctuations in one quarter. So pointing it out is adequate and right. I fully agree that we need to be as flexible and attentive as possible here. But they didn't offer us any good solution. I myself dare to hope that, in this same activity-based budget, we will have a faster, better and more operational picture. We are, of course, constantly monitoring tax receipts as well. So maybe that's a little bit of a question of how intensely you're concerned and how much you're paying attention to it maybe also in some way at political level. I have a philosophically different opinion from anyone who thinks that there should be an awful supply of reserves right now. As I read out in answer to Aivar Sõerd's question, the Estonian state pays about a million euros each year with negative interest on maintaining its reserves. Simply put, it costs us a million euros a year to have buffer money. At the same time, during the current year, the Estonian state made government bonds with which it financed itself and which were also at negative interest rates. If we pay back the debt, we'll pay back less than what we took. In such a financial environment, we must understandably have some buffers. After all, we also have these, we have the liquidity reserve and the stabilisation reserve, we have the reserves of the social security funds, but the large increase in the volume of these reserves is financially impractical. We have a very small debt. This debt is falling, and we have a level of reserves that, at least, I and the current government consider to be completely adequate. We are waiting for the economy to cool down, that is true, but we are not expecting any major crash, a 10% drop or a reduction in tax receipts, I do not know, 20 to 30%, as was the case in 2009. Even if we were waiting for this, our reserves have been calculated in a way that ensures that we, say, the state will operate without reducing the costs for eight months in a row, which should be quite enough time to react on both the expenditure and the revenue side. So, in principle, I do not agree with the calls to start collecting huge amounts of reserves. To be honest, it's like I'm not taking the advice that you're not borrowing for God's sake right now. The question of borrowing is not whether it is good or bad, but whether it is what we want to borrow for. I fully agree that it is not right to cover current expenditure by means of a loan. We've had to buffer ourselves for a short period of time, right, with about 200 million, but it was to cover the past minus, we're paying it back already now, this year we're paying back one part of it, next year the second part. We do not have to borrow to cover running costs next year. However, if we want to do something big or invest, we certainly do not have to fear lending under the current interest rate conditions. So, in a philosophical sense, I will not sign this recommendation in principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U284	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U285	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The state budget is certainly far more than just numbers under the line or on the line. This is policy-making. It is, in fact, also a responsibility for political choices in deciding public money. External trade is undoubtedly one of the very important areas and I certainly do not agree with Mr Raimond to make a great deal of savings if this ministerial portfolio is abolished. However, it is quite important that people who are at work as ministers and are responsible, even as small as 170 million, are fully responsible. You said before that one thing a politician can't be forgiven is lying. Do you think that Kert Kingo, who is repeatedly caught lying to the public these days, should resign?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U286	Thank you. As I said to Raimond Kaljulaid, I do not have enough information to comment on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U287	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U288	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! With half an ear before I heard you say something like the existence of foreign trade and IT ministers would show how heartbroken this government looks tenderly at this sector and helps businesses break doors. Recent events, on which you say you do not know anything, but what the rest of Estonia is watching with excitement will probably lead to the change of minister. Now the budgetary question: what do you think if the Minister changes quickly, will he be able to redefine the priorities in this area as well?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U289	Thank you. There is a presumption in this question that I have already refused to comment on or that I have not commented on, so I cannot start making that assumption into speculation. After all, we still have time to discuss the state budget here, how much, until the end of the year calmly and if we want to, until March. I wish the Riigikogu the strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U290	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U291	Mr. Minister! I remember from the election that one of the great promises of the EKRE was the loss of the kindergarten place fee. Since I was in charge of the municipality at the time, I was very excited to follow the subject. I knew that local governments didn't have much of that money because they had to build kindergartens, pay wages, manage costs, etc., so that's why it can only come from the state budget. He was afraid that if the country didn't do it, the money would be asked for. Recently, we discussed the increase in kindergarten pay in Rae parish precisely because management costs are rising, we invest a lot and there is a huge wage pressure to get teachers in kindergarten at all. During this debate, our opposition politicians from the EKRE's ranks asked that the elections were allowed, and now it is a free place for us to raise the fee instead. I also asked them to turn to the political party members in the government and ask them this question, but today I have a chance to ask myself this question. There is not such a line in the 2020 budget that this exemption can be made. Then what happened, and why was such a promise given?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U292	Thank you. It may be quite appropriate to go a little further here. This promise was also discussed when the coalition was formed, but, let's say, here was the question that if the state is paying the place fee for kindergarten, whether kindergarten or early childhood education will become "national activity," like school education, for example. Our party's answer is that we certainly do not want this to happen; it could remain a local government activity. In this sense, it is not just about money; it is also about how responsibility is distributed between the municipality and the central government. Since there were also different visions and opinions on this issue, a rather large number of money was added to it, it was decided at the time of the coalition that this issue would be set aside at the moment. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Aga valimislubadus?'???]] But on the election promise, I have already said several times that, in order for us all to be able to fulfil our electoral promises, we will strive to get 51 seats in the Riigikogu next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U293	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U294	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! While debating state border issues with Jürgen Ligi, you tried heroically to claim and, in your speech, I think I remember correctly that this government is millions, perhaps even 70 million, building a state border. Maybe you can go over the numbers and figure out what you mean. Looking at the data from the Ministry of the Interior, I regret to see that the amount that the government that took office puts into the construction of the state border is a round baranka, or zero. You have only moved money from previous periods in the budget strategy. You took 3 million out of this year's budget strategy and raised it to the next year, the sum of two years being a round baranka. There will be 3 million more in the coming budgetary strategy years. Indeed, from previous periods, the PBGB could count on 20 million next year to build a state border. Here's my question: did you knowingly lie to Mr. Ligi and the Riigikogu that you put money into building a state border, even though you don't really put a penny in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U295	Thank you. I don't understand what this accusation is about lying. I also read before, by the way, what these amounts are, in which year, the amount will be: this year, 9.7 million, next year, 12.6 million, in 2021, 14.5 million, in 2022, 15.7 million, in 2023, a total of 82.9 million from 2015. I also said before that the previous 2015 government plan envisaged 74 million, which in the meantime has increased by around 9 million. So it's incomprehensible to me what I'm being accused of here. The fact that the construction of the border has not progressed at the pace that I and certainly the current Minister for the Interior would have liked to see and would like to see in the coming years is a separate issue. This issue was perhaps also related to criticism of the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board at some point. But the construction of the border is moving forward. It is not true that no cents have been put into border building this year, it is simply not true. The next year will continue to build the way in which the sections are being built, so I do not agree with this criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U296	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U297	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister. Of course, I must first of all correct my colleague Marko Mihkelson; he has drawn too far-reaching conclusions from my statement. I didn't propose to cut this area, but that's why. Secondly, of course, my question was directly linked to the state budget. Minister Kingo has just come by last week to introduce his administration budget to us in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, so he is a person drawing up the state budget, and I think these things are very connected. Well, you're not informed. I don't think you'll believe me if I inform you. You can read the news later. I don't want to spend any more time on the personal question of a minister. My question is substantive. Recently, we looked at the budget for the administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It seems to me that the salaries of people working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' headquarters are unfortunately low. You mentioned in your introductory speech that the security of Estonia is very important to you. You'll see there are troubled times in the world. Do you see opportunities for further wage increases for workers in this area too, so that our security is guaranteed with the help of a professional and well-motivated External Action Service?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U298	Thank you. By the way, Mr. Kaljulaid, I don't believe in the news either. [[Laughing.]] So in that sense, it doesn't matter. But the State Department's wages, by the way, are going to rise a little next year. Foreign Minister Reinsalu has been very consistent and resourceful in planning the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Among other things, the fees for work permits and visas are rising, half of which goes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget precisely to boost wages. This increase may not have been mentioned separately and emphasised separately, and it may not be of the same magnitude as what we are talking about here in the case of rescuers and teachers, but in fact there will also be a small wage increase next year if the Minister decides to direct this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U299	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You are presenting for the first time as a minister the state budget here for Parliament. Theoretically, there's a chance you'll be standing here next year. Unfortunately, however, there is a rather large deficit in the budget over the last two years and also today. I am not even going to name this number, it is very, very big, and many promises are therefore not fulfilled. From the Prime Minister's point of view, we need a tax debate. What, what tax changes do you propose to the Prime Minister for the future now, after drawing up the budget and presenting it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U300	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U301	Thank you very much for the good question. As we know, tomorrow doesn't belong to anyone. I also welcome the tax debate. I would like to hold a debate on what taxes we are lowering. I'd like us to lower gas excise, electrical excise, diesel excise. I would like us to reduce VAT. Yes, I think that we can still reduce the tax burden in good planning.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U302	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U303	Mr. Secretary of Finance! So let's do these calculations together. Of course, I'd listen a little more precisely to what numbers you have for planning. Looks like the ones you just read to me are very different from the ones sent by the Home Office. There's some kind of total fish between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior, but okay. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. In 2008, the Reform Party-led government foresaw 70 million for the construction of the border for the period from 2016 to 2019. As of August 2019, according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, 25,4 million had been spent on real border construction activities. 70 minus 25 is roughly 45 million, says my modest calculation. So there's 45 million leftovers. Even if action is planned for 20 million in 2020, there will still be 25 million leftovers due to the decisions of the Reform Party government. The fact that you've added something for the coming years or this year is bullshit. Admit it, and we can get on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U304	Thank you. I think we can move on without even admitting it. But I'll say maybe you'll be more specific. I'm reading the data, indeed, which the Ministry of Finance has prepared for me. In 2015, the decision was made to allocate EUR 73.9 million to the Ministry of the Interior for the development of the eastern border. There's a slight difference between the number you said. You were talking about 70, 71 has been mentioned, but probably some of the more recent decisions have been made that have been clarified. I never said all this money was spent. It's not. The border's been slowed down. The construction of the border has been delayed for various reasons, including the fact that during the construction period, it was insane and wanted to be built significantly more expensive. The current government, as soon as it came to power, put it on hold to review what is realisticly feasible. This amount of money has now been increased. At the end of August or September, we attended a government dinner session in South-East Estonia, which focused on the issue of the construction of the border and decided to increase the money for the construction of the border separately, i.e. another 12 million were assigned to the special-purpose reserve of the government, so that the construction would be financially covered. In this sense, the amount has increased slightly. The final assessment of the current government's plan, which is going to cost compared to 2015, is significantly lower than what was said in the meantime, when there was another government. But it is indisputable that the current government is working on building the border, of course from the point of departure that has been done by previous governments, on the basis of the works and financial allocations that have been made in the past. It is also a fact that there is additional money there. Actually, I don't know what we're arguing about.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U305	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U306	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! I come back to the European Union's money and structural resources. That's right, they're running out of time. Since 2017 there has been, in principle, a question before different governments, before the previous and the current government, when some kind of strategic exit plan will emerge. You have just said in one reply that there is no concern at the moment, because money comes from Europe all the time and all the time. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these funds can still be used for a defined purpose. European resources were available for the reform of working capacity and can be used. Will such a plan arise, will it exist? How or when will it occur, and how has it been taken into account in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U307	Thank you. Yeah, that's the plan. As you probably know, the European Union's budget is currently being negotiated. The new European Commission is making its own plans. The ministries have completed a vision of how money should be directed. Last week, the Ministry of Finance presented the government with a framework vision of what kind of activities should be allocated. This debate in the government at the political level, which is our priorities and to what extent we support what activities, is taking place, we are planning to get this over with by the end of November. Of course, we know very precisely which frameworks will provide us with the benchmarks and divisions that the European Union itself has put together between the various funds, and also within the funds. This is a substantial work that is being carried out on a regular basis and where we have a very clear vision of where we want to place the money. Of course, it is not surprising that you want an existing or, let's say, a predictable amount of money to be spent when we are talking about the amount of money for this multiannual financial period when we are talking about CO2 money, when we are talking about a transitional fund or some other funds, that is considerably higher than the forecast amount itself, but that is quite the usual thing in the budgetary process. But I find it strange to hear that the Reform Party thinks that we do not know at all what we are doing or what money it is or where it comes from or where it has to go. We know pretty well, actually.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U308	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U309	Thank you. You talked so nicely about it, if it were up to you, you would significantly reduce the tax burden. As far as I know, you're the Minister of Finance, and you seem to be controlling the Prime Minister. It's about what or who's stopping you. Is this the Fatherland, is this the Central Party, is it the deep state? Who won't let you carry out all the good ideas you have?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U310	Thank you. You see, there's nothing to do, everyone thinks I'm Hercules, and I control everything. I'm glad. It's always nice when the opposition thinks the government is almighty. But you've been in the government yourself, and you know that's not exactly the case. There are certain policy frameworks ahead. The Estonian regime is not such that any minister, be it head, finance or, I don't know, the Minister of the Environment, can do some things by decree. This is not the case in Estonia. The government will decide by consensus. I would have assumed you'd understand, of course, but it was such a beautiful question that I couldn't miss the answer. It was actually a question for me as a practical individual, not for me as a member of the government or a representative of the coalition. What are my proposals in the tax debate? Well, we can all dream, but I do realize that if we make all the taxes, the budget won't come together in this way. The point of discussion is to think out of the box, okay? So, no, I think I'm happy when I do my job, I don't want to grab anyone else's job. From an intellectual point of view, it is always nice to throw ideas into the air, even if they are not feasible. Quite clearly, do not read from my reply that the Minister of Finance is already going to the government with a proposal to lower four-reference taxes. I'm sure that's not what I meant, it's just a nice debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U311	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U312	Thank you. I wouldn't think you were Hercules, not least because in ancient Greece this type of vanity was called hybrid, and the gods punished it very harshly. But the question also concerns tax policy. You mentioned the taxes you would like to make, but you can't. You didn't mention income tax. The interesting thing about income tax is that when the tax exemption of 500 euros for low-wage earners entered into force, it was higher than the minimum wage. In fact, everyone who earned less than average wages got it. Now the wages have gone up. The original goal was to move on with this so-called hump, to increase it, but it hasn't been done. And in next year's budget, it will suddenly be a source of revenue for you that the people who earn, say, the average salary will pay you more income tax. If we look at the state of inequality in this society, it actually means that until the tax burden on people earning average wages starts to rise. It's good for you in terms of the budget. Do you consider it fair that you organise tax policy in such a way as to increase inequality?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U313	Thank you. I don't know, I think Jevgeni Ossinovski was in that government who passed this law in this way. I don't know if you thought it was fair or unfair, and then did you see that this limit would soon be in the way of wage growth? So in that sense, I think it's best to look in the mirror. But, as I said, at the time of this government meeting, it was agreed that we basically have a tax truce, we will not make any new taxes and we will not increase taxes. The existing tax system is what it is, it is certainly not perfect and it certainly does not like to pay taxes. But when we talk about the fact that we have had a record increase in wages in the last four to five years, we are basically talking about how the level of people's wealth has increased in Estonia. There is nothing unusual about this key, not unusual about it, or about injustice. I believe that the Social Democrats will certainly agree with this argument that, if people's incomes increase, their responsibilities towards society will also increase. I disagree with what you're somehow trying to say, like money that moves out of the minimum income tax would somehow come to me. Not coming to me, not coming to the government, coming to the country. It's all our money. The state budget is the money of society. None of the ministries or ministers have their own money, there's no such thing. It's people's money, and then politicians share it here. [[???J. Ossinovski saalist: 'Aga see on teie valitsus.'???]] I think we're all politicians here in this Chamber. So it's not my money.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U314	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U315	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. You have repeatedly and with flying promise to undertake a state budget review and promised in the second half of the summer that it would have an impact on the budget for next year. I haven't heard more since, August, how far away you have this state budget review. But what I am interested in is that if you have made this review with conviction and said that it is certainly possible to find additional resources that are not being used very efficiently, would you mention, for example, three cost lines that are currently questionable in the budget and where significant savings could actually be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U316	Thank you. I understand it was a provocation to LGBT. [[Laughing.]] Very badge. No, I wouldn't go to a line like that. I might start over. The review of the state budget has begun, the work process has begun. The Steering Committee has met twice or three times, the agency has provided its input and is working on a rolling basis. The government has discussed this several times, and the Coalition Council has discussed the next steps and activities several times. All of us understand that the revision of the state budget, at least in part, still means a cut in costs, not only a redeployment of some kind of money from one place to another, but in some places it must also mean savings, and it can never happen without some opposition to it, and that in turn means that it can only happen if there is a very clear political will, willingness to make political efforts for it, and perhaps some political criticism. The budget review is an ongoing process. In this sense, I do not think it would be right for me to pick out some budget lines in some areas and use it as an example, because it is extremely counterproductive in terms of this process. However, it should not be assumed that this has not already benefited us, even when the 2019 budget changes were made and when the 2020 budget came together, we also benefited from the process ourselves. Perhaps by spring we have been able to do even greater and more thorough work, perhaps to make some political choices, so that the benefits are greater in terms of volume. This job is on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U317	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U318	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! In previous years, I remember that you were equally critical of Ratas' government and the careful overspending that took place here. You used different epithetes, you called it french and worse. I'm trying to understand this tax hindrance. I got the impression from what you said that you were referring to Jüri Ratas as if he were standing in the way of a tax reduction. I'd try to figure out what the plan is. You will allow us to reform the budget rules and change everything. What position is the EKRE in today, and what position are you in? Do we have to expect more loans, as you will allow, with the help of the PPP, such as lending from the private sector? Or do we expect a tax cut and a cut in expenses? What's the philosophical approach now? To the left or to the right, where exactly are we going?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U319	Thank you. I think it's in the middle of this coalition somewhere nicely. Yeah, nice in the middle. Well, what we're talking about here is how I criticized the government sitting in the opposition. It's water under the bridge, as they say. In the meantime, there were elections, the composition of the government has changed. The current government is in the second formation and with other principles of government than the previous government, and it is as simple as that. The fact that some people are the same as the previous government is simply a reality of life. But for them, too, the direction of the agreement has changed. Yes, I would say about all the things that have now been listed here that this government is fully prepared to raise funds for investment. As Minister of Finance, I am in favour of this with two hands. It is important that investments are reasonable, that the Estonian economy is supported and nurtured in the long term. If we can do this by involving the private sector, having also motivated the private sector to invest in the Estonian economy, it is excellent. The government has agreed on a tax truce, which means that we will not make new taxes and we will not increase taxes. At the same time, the government has written into the coalition agreement that in order to reduce border trade, improve Estonia's competitiveness and improve tax receipts we will review excise duties. Of course, in a bird's letter it means that we can only look down, not up. I think we have had a very intense political debate, I think three years, about whether a tax reduction necessarily means a reduction in the revenue from the state budget. The fall in duty indicates that it doesn't. We can lower the tax, improve Estonia's competitiveness and, at the same time, create a positive impact on the state budget. If we manage to find such tax cuts, which are actually revenue for the state budget, we will, of course, do so. This is where we are talking, first and foremost, about diesel, for which we are still doing analysis, they should be completed in mid-November or at the end of November. By the time the RES is drawn up, we certainly need to make some kind of political decision on the basis of this information and its analysis. Let's look at the budgetary process. This is the first budget of this government. If you look at a very large frame, what does this budget tell us? It says that this government has a reasonably balanced budget objective in itself, we are moving towards structural balance, we are in nominal balance already this year and we are not in favour of running costs at the expense of borrowing. Borrowing is not a dogma, but borrowing to build and grow the Estonian economy in the government is not one of the parties to say that we are not doing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U320	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U321	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The health of children and young people is a concern. It has been known to deteriorate in the 21st century, obesity is a problem, children's physical abilities are being reduced. My question is how much money has been earmarked in the state budget to finance mobility and what are the biggest or, let us say, the investments that have been selected for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U322	I must say that I am not able to go into such fine amounts in the debate on the state budget by sector. I would simply point out that we have a number of programmes that improve children's mobility, both in the fields of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Social Affairs. I would point out that the government has made a separate decision to build sports halls. So we also have additional funds allocated in this budget to activities already in the so-called "base" or existing ones in order to improve children's mobility habits. But I am not currently able to give an overview of the money distributed in at least three different areas at this level of detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U323	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U324	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I'd like to ask you about the vision, but I'll ask you about the rooftop money. In your earlier reply, you claimed that roofing money is the most transparent part of the state budget and that you give it to the Riigikogu for distribution. I checked and checked who still has to put together the budget, just in case. The State Budget Act says it's the Ministry of Finance. I wonder whether you will not be able to find a purpose for the 4 million that have been earmarked for roofing money or why you are giving them to the Riigikogu to distribute them. I would recommend spending this money or putting it on the investment line, even for the extra funding of R &amp; D or in the area. In short, why are you giving up the roof money here in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U325	Thank you. I think the answer is very simple. Regional investments distributed in the Riigikogu are universally unpopular outside this hall and universally popular on the inside of this hall. But since this law is passed by this hall, the answer has come.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U326	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U327	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I'd still like to talk a little bit more about teachers' salaries. You raise teachers' salaries by 5.2%, but the money allocated to it, 9.5 million, is only 2.5% of it, there is a shortage of 8 to 9 million euros to raise 5.2%. Where do you think that money is supposed to come from to pay the minimum wage? Should it come from the teachers' bonuses, which is the 20% that will be added to the minimum wage, or should it be paid by local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U328	Thank you. First of all, I have to say that it is not possible to make one relationship calculation between the increase in the payroll and the increase in wages. It's quite common that if the payroll is increased by X percent, then the actual salary increase is, I don't know, about X times 2, for different reasons. But basically, the way it is, if we say we're going to increase the payroll by 2.5%, there's definitely a real raise of more than 5%. It's either in any field, it's teachers or rescuers, or it's a raise somewhere else. Of course, in addition to that, it is very important how this increased payroll is actually distributed, well simply to say whether the upper or lower part of the recipients will be added or all equally, however. It's very important. It is possible to make an enormous number of fine percentage calculations of how much the average rose, how much the lower part rose, how much the upper part rose. In this sense, it is the day of the demagogists' feast when they can later come up with different percentage calculations. The way municipalities channel money into it is quite clearly the municipality's own line, but we are still talking about the numbers that are directed there through the state budget and which are very clearly targeted money. In this sense, it cannot be said that the increase in the payroll fund has created some kind of cost pressure on the municipalities somewhere, rather the other way round. If the public wage fund increases, the wage pressure of the municipalities will decrease, because we all know that the municipalities are competing in the same way for the teachers' workforce. In the end, how big someone's salary is, we'll only find out in the retrospect, we'll find out how much and where it went, how it split up, how it split up in steps. But I also say that I do not agree, or I really do not think that this is an honest statement when we first say that there is a minimum wage, and then we say that there are some extras to it. After all, it's still the money that comes into a person's account on payday, it's his income, and that's what we count as wages. We can set up these wage components there in any way and then say that this or the other component is not the percentage that we have actually wanted to achieve. It is necessary to look at what this final amount is in the form of net wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U329	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U330	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, We all understand well that money is never enough and it will never be that way. So, indeed, the preparation of this entire budget has obviously been a serious task for you. Only perhaps such a question: are there activities that you think have not been funded or received too little money, which makes your heart ache, or do you not have these activities? In other words, looking ahead, what would next year be in the same situation those things you'd like to do differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U331	Thank you. I guess there were a lot of things that I wanted to finance. Not only during the budgetary process, but also during the coalition negotiations, after all, we drew down a number of electoral promises simply because we realised that there was no financial cover to be found. But now, speaking of a specific budget, I would say, on the contrary, that the way in which we finally solved the money craving for these so-called priority areas was, in my opinion, a relatively beautiful compromise. Nobody got what he asked for, but everyone got something. All those areas that we considered to be a priority, or for which we found there was a screaming need, received something. As they often say, you will recognize the compromise when you realize that everyone is dissatisfied, that no one has fully received what he wanted. But I thought the solution was fair. If we say that these are our priority areas, well simply saying, if we have a choice as to whether we are giving a 5% raise to teachers or police officers, then the answer is that we are giving 2.5% to both. In this sense, I am sure that my conscience is content.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U332	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U333	Thank you. Dear Minister, I did not get an exact answer to the previous question. You have promised to raise your old-age pension to EUR 800 in four years. If you raise this EUR 7 exceptionally, it means that you will raise EUR 28 together. A raise of EUR 400 would be needed for every pensioner. How do you plan to achieve an average old-age pension of EUR 800 in this four year period? Please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U334	Thank you. We'll have to specify who promised what, won't we? When we talk about electoral promises, our party had the same promise, the Centre Party had a different promise, and perhaps there was also a promise in the Fatherland, but I can't remember how they formulated it right now. Decent old age must have been a promise. But we've already talked about this here today. After all, we may look at EUR 7 if we want to, but the actual pension increase is EUR 45 and some people are more. This is the average increase in average age, 45 euros. In fact, this is also a 'downward' estimate, because the average length of stay is longer than 44 years. Perhaps if we take into account the real state of play, the pension increase will be more than EUR 50 next year. But all right, let's not start with statistics here, okay? That's what they say all the time, and then let's keep going the same way. If the same pace continues, it is entirely realistic that in four years the average pension will be up 700 euros. If we do in a few years, in addition to indexation, the next extraordinary increases in the indexing will result in EUR 30 to 40, we will put another EUR 30 to 40 each year, or we will add even EUR 7 each year, then we will move forward at this rate. I'm looking at our election pledge. Our party's election promise was that in four years' time, the pension will be twice as high as it is now. How does it get there, who raises it, whether it's an index or an extraordinary slope or something else, we didn't specify that. If economic growth persists, if wage growth persists and we put on some kind of extraordinary increase, or if we do something in the pension model that increases the income of the lower pension beneficiaries in particular, then the average pension will certainly increase at such a rate that I will not look at the year 2023 with fear, I swear I will not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U335	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U336	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking you straight: do you think people are stupid? I had two older women picking up a button right here and asking me what was going on. I ask you again: do you think the people of Estonia are stupid?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U337	Thank you. I don't know what they asked what was going on, but I really don't think the people of Estonia are stupid. On the contrary, I think that popular wisdom, collective wisdom, is the greatest wisdom in all. Ultimately, they chose the kind of parliament that made today's government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U338	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Thank you very much for your presentation and your answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U339	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U340	We will proceed with the procedure of our draft state budget. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U341	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the National Budget Act 2020 on 8, 14, 15, 21 and 22 October. We have heard all the presentations by ministers and other ministerial officials and the budget of the Riigikogu. The Commission took three consensual decisions: to appoint a rapporteur for the draft state budget here, to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 23 October and to conclude the first reading, and to allow ten working days for the amendments, i.e. to set a deadline of 6 November at 5.15 p.m. Since there were questions left, I'm gonna answer some of them. I mean, when they were asked in the hall and there was no answer. The first one was Thomas, though, when Thomas asked about Via Baltica's tea, he had left. The budget does not have this line for a simple reason. The government has decided that 2+1 roads will not be built and 2+2 roads will be built in Pärnu. And it's planned as a PPP project. There was a question about the financing of sport. I can say with pleasure that 2 million more have been added to 1 million next year's Team Estonia in connection with the Olympic Games, so that the Estonian team can prepare for the Olympic Games as it should, using the best opportunities. And the third question came from the social sphere: the pay of teachers. Can't figure out how it could be that the number is smaller than it should be. But all the members of the Riigikogu who are in this Chamber of the Riigikogu should know that very many teachers do not work full time and simply calculate this number cannot come. Most, not most, that's the wrong word, but about 30% of teachers work less than full-time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U342	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U343	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! This morning I listened and watched ETV. You looked good, answered the questions nicely and said that you had worked through the entire budget, 440 pages. Good for you! My question concerns the Riigikogu budget. What about this Riigikogu budget: is it shrinking or growing, or how much is it moving to one side or the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U344	If you look at the state budget for next year, this number is practically the same as it was a year ago. All that needs to be taken into account is that the investment money that will not be used this year will automatically be transferred to the state budget for next year. But I want to tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen: the government will hand over the draft state budget law, but the state budget will still be adopted here by 101 members of the Riigikogu. I would like everyone who proposes amendments within the next ten working days to make very good improvements, which are written by both sides: where there is income and where there is cost, so that they can be accepted in this Chamber after the third reading. I hope that all the suggestions and thoughts for improvement are good. It was discussed here today whether one thing, one thing or the other, could be improved in the budget. There are places in each budget where good ideas should be implemented, but there must always be a source of revenue for spending.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U345	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask two questions at first reading of the draft law. Jüri Jaanson, do you have a procedural question? No, it's not. Well, I guess there's no more questions for the waitress. Thank you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. First of all, on behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U346	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to say 'Dear Minister' to the Minister to congratulate him for his five-and-a-half-hour response, which passed in a happy and very specific way. Today's debate on the state budget has been long and thorough. There is no reason to say that the state budget is the most important draft of the session of the Riigikogu, which affects the lives of all people living in Estonia. The Central Party Group is pleased that, like the government led by Jüri Ratas, the state budget for next year will also focus on the people of Estonia. We have had too many national budgets, which are very beautifully designed in Excel, but in real life, nothing has helped to improve people's lives. Even the opposition recognizes the government. After the budget had been handed over to the Riigikogu, the President of the Reform Party's Group Kaja Kallaski said that he was pleased that the state budget provided for wage increases for the representatives of the areas of life that were certainly worth it. We are all pleased that rescuers, teachers, policemen and cultural workers will receive a raise next year. Of course, everything is too little for the opposition. Pensions are rising too little, R &amp; D funding is growing too little, wages are rising too little, investments are increasing too little, etc. At the same time, the opposition is talking about the balance of the budget for food and food. It seems to me that there should be enough former finance ministers in the Reform Party Group who know that these are opposite positions that cannot be achieved at the same time. It is not possible to increase the expenditure of the state budget without increasing revenue or worsening the fiscal position. That is why the government coalition has chosen a golden medium: pensions are rising, R &amp; D funding is increasing, wages are rising, investment is increasing, but the budget is nominally balanced. In addition, the budget is moving towards structural balance: by 2021 the structural deficit will decrease to 0.2% and the budget will reach the nominal surplus. The tax burden will remain stable at 33.2% of GDP in the next two years. I therefore understand the frustration of the opposition, because the budget has been made constructively and there are no normal last-minute tax increases. The opposition will be able to table its amendments together with the sources of coverage. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has encouraged the opposition to join the wider tax debate in society, because if we do all that the opposition has spoken about, then we must inevitably come to tax issues. The role of opposition is to be critical, but it is worth preserving common sense. It is strange to hear the criticism of opposition parties about the pension increase next year. I repeat over and over again: the government of Jüri Ratas brings the 12th largest pension increase to the elderly. In April next year, the average old-age pension will rise to EUR 45, which will give the elderly EUR 540 per year, i.e. basically the 13th pension. The Health Insurance Fund's budget will increase by over EUR 140 million next year, with research funding of almost EUR 16 million. The share of R &amp; D in the state budget increases from 0.71% to 0.74% of gross domestic product. The government allocates money to increase the payroll for teachers, state-paid social workers, cultural, sports and domestic security workers. It will also continue to support municipalities with EUR 15 million in order to ensure that the average pay for kindergarten teachers is similar to the minimum wage for school teachers. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U347	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U348	Municipal revenues amount to 2.3 billion euros by 2020, with local government revenues increasing by 27% over the last two years. A further €185 million has contributed to the rapid increase in revenue. In 2020, local governments will receive more than 55 million euros from the past, with the support of an additional increase in their income base. Additional EUR 10 million is also available from the state budget to help municipalities cover gravel roads. A further 7 million will be allocated to investment grants, which will enable local authorities to improve local routes through transit traffic and related to business. Finally, the state budget for 2020 contains positive news in all areas. In doing so, it is important that this is a responsible budget that offers opportunities to solve or mitigate major problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U349	Thank you. Siim Pohlak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U350	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, from the beginning, I will say that this is a good budget. With as good a budget as it was possible to put together in the current situation. When listening to the questions and speeches of the Socialists and Reform Party, it is recalled over and over that today's circumstances are largely the result of yesterday's and the day before yesterday's choices. Many of the accusations in this Chamber today and the raising of the problem could be boldly asked by the same critics: who did? We made it ourselves. The current coalition must now correct these mistakes and patch holes. But what's important? What is important is that this budget does not introduce any new taxes. The funds were sought from within the budget, not from the easier way of resisting, as before, when excise duty was raised with a light hand. In addition, today's coalition trusts Estonian municipalities, because it is precisely on the spot that the best know where to spend the money. Municipalities will receive several tens of million euros. For many years, people in rural areas have been concerned about roads, especially gravel roads, which often become mud slobs during the autumn and spring times. In order to address this concern, the budget provides for EUR 10 million. Roads and transport infrastructure in general are a very important issue for the coalition. Good transport connections are one of the prerequisites for people to move beyond larger centres, so that life does not focus solely on Tallinn and its immediate surroundings. In addition, the budget places considerable additional resources in the area of health care. However, the EUR 45 pension increase, repeatedly ridiculed in this Chamber, will certainly help pensioners, and I find it inappropriate for a Member who receives several thousand euros in salary to iron it out. Good and important things in this budget could remain to be counted. To point out something else, I recall that the survey carried out before the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia revealed that 90% of Estonians consider the survival of Estonian nation and culture to be the most important objective of the Estonian state. This objective is supported by the budget before you. The money is directed to the cultural field as well as to ensuring the development and learning of the Estonian language. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party supports the government in moving forward with the state budget. We stand for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U351	Thank you. Priit Sibul on behalf of the party of the Fatherland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U352	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking honestly, as far as I know, the government has put together this budget in the knowledge that there are wise and reasonable and intelligent people living in Estonia, no fools. You don't try to fool anyone. The budget is a document full of passionate figures that reflects the wealth of our society and the understanding of coalition partners as to how it is best to share this money in society. In the budget for the coming year, some positive nuances that I would like to highlight as representative of the Fatherland Party. Of course, this has to do with national defence in particular. Since 2015, defence expenditure in Estonia has been 2% of GDP and we have considered it important. There have been other positives, but for us it has really been important. And it's not only a sign value, it's also a substance value element. With this money, additional investments can be made to acquire ammunition and anti-tank systems and to cooperate with allies. In the coming year, i.e. 2020, 615 million euros have been allocated from the budget for defence. This budget is also unique because really, as has been pointed out here, taxes will not be raised in the coming year. This government has not submitted any draft amendments to taxes. So our tax burden is not increasing, it is still the smallest in Europe. I hope that we will be able to work towards achieving below 33% of GDP at one point again. In the previous government, we remembered that we carried out a major tax reform and significantly lowered the tax burden on people earning average or lower wages. For Fatherland, the priority has always been the nation state, that Estonia is Estonian-minded and Estonian-speaking. We have paid attention to this in all coalitions. I note the Estonian language houses that were created in Tallinn and Narva, in the coalition in 2015 and so on. Such political decisions require continuity, as does defence policy. It is therefore a pleasure to note that funding for Estonian language houses will increase next year, and more money will also be allocated to promoting global Estonian and to Estonian language teachers in kindergartens and schools. All these steps are taken so that people living in Estonia can understand our language and cultural space and be part of it. There are many other positive things in this budget. In the state budget for 2020, 216 million are earmarked for research funding, plus additional funding for health care, which will increase by 140 million euros, and the 45-euro pension increase has already been mentioned several times, with indexation, which will help to improve the livelihood of older people. As I said at the beginning, the people of Isamaa and Estonia have reason to be satisfied with this budget. Several priorities have been reflected and the budget ensures that Estonia is protected, competitive and Estonian-speaking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U353	Thank you. Riina Sikkut on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U354	Ladies and gentlemen, The coalition's assessment of the budget has just been heard. Of course: it is responsible, exactly what was promised, everything will rise, only the tax burden will fall. And balance is maintained. At the same time, references were made by the coalition. I am not going to talk about the obvious, such as not respecting the science agreement, the failure to contribute to the livelihood of pensioners. The government makes fundamental decisions in someone's business interests: making excise duties on alcohol, dismantling the second pillar of pension, yesterday's news that the reform of the pharmacy is rethinking. It's a reality. Social justice, a cohesive society, a knowledge-based economy, formulated as objectives, these are beautiful words written in documents. There's no money behind them. That's what screams back from the budget. But I'm talking about what's going on quietly. The Minister of Finance himself summed up the budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs in this way: we kept the level of defence costs, we increased the R &amp; D costs as much as we could. At the same time, only a 7 euro pension increase and a 2.5% wage increase in the public sector could be made. Everything! There was no money for anything else. The Minister for Rural Affairs, who visited the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday, acknowledged that there were no political lines in the budget, nothing could be done, no money. It is entirely sincere and really human that it is understandable that if there is no money, there is no money. How do you do politics like that? I'm sorry. Yet politics are made, done quietly, done without knowing it. There are, in fact, thousands and thousands of redeployments and changes in the budget. What was the most popular support this year? Renovation of apartment buildings already mentioned several times today. Seventeen and a half million were distributed in a minute and a half. For four years, 100 million were planned earlier. There are now 5.5 million in next year's budget and 1.8 million in next year's budget. The rest is the 0th row. The Sustainable Estonia Institute has said, however, that insulation of apartment buildings is one of the most effective ways for Estonia to reduce our carbon emissions. Another issue that has been repeatedly mentioned today is farmers' direct payments, i.e. top-ups. Indeed, it is a fool that under the heading 'Implementation of the priorities of the Government of the Republic' in the explanatory memorandum, the objective of the knowledge economy is that the government stands for equal conditions of competition between Estonian agriculture and food producers in the European Union. And its contents are the top-up reduction of 10 million. How do we stand for a level playing field by reducing top-up to 10 million? And it should also be a move towards a knowledge-based economy! As Priit Sibul has just said, the budget is a document full of passionless numbers. Indeed, support for investment in the development of a housing fund, support for fast internet and solar panels, support for the reconstruction of small houses, support for regional companies for electricity connections, support for local renewable heating systems, support for the renovation of street lighting and support for the deployment of renewable energy. Small sums of between twenty thousand and a few million. In total, however, tens of millions have been cut off from the rural economy. The minister really said in reply to Urmas Kruus that you listened well and heard correctly: there was no rural talk in my presentation, and the top-up and other things disappeared because it was necessary to find 50 million for the pension and salary increases. But, well, the local governments' revenues as a whole are increasing. Is there anything to complain about? Actually, it is. I've already told you about the support, but there's still these fragments here and there. Financial instruments created by the European Union's structural instruments have not been used to the desired extent. It must have been explained to the entrepreneurs that the bank would be able to make money under better conditions. The figures show that the grants are distributed, the investment grants are not used. Well, if we don't use it, we move it, move it! These are not large amounts at the total size of the state budget, they are small amounts, they are in the hands of different ministers and, in large part, they are not bad. But what's in the background? What is it that we don't understand? I suggest you read the number of Pärnu Postimees on October 12, where an entrepreneur describes how he answers his phone: 'Wait, I'm running to the broadcast area! ' And there's no Internet either. It's very difficult doing business when you can't trust a connection. Yes, if we cut the support for network connections, electrical connections, nothing will change in the city centre of Tallinn, but do the entrepreneurs of Kohtla-Järve, Rõuge, Hiiumaa agree? And if the financial instruments are not used because the bank receives a loan under better conditions, has anyone asked if this applies to all companies? The golden circle and technology parks around Tallinn probably see no concern, they will have nothing to do, but I am not sure that rural entrepreneurs will also receive help from the bank. Regional policy is actually being carried out by all ministers and, if there is a need to redeploy money, if cuts are needed, this must not be done automatically at the expense of the rural economy. We'll take it from where we haven't used it, we'll put it back later! Regional policy does not just have to be done by Jaak Aab; all ministers have to do it. But the Minister of Finance doesn't even mention this decision in his speech, and he is happy to admit it. My concern is that these subconscious automatic decisions, choices, budgetary changes are taking their course, favour the big ones, favour the well-managed, those who know what to apply for, who have knowledge, who have resources. But this is only part of regional policy. Exactly the same pattern stands out when it comes to inequality and reducing it. It has to be dealt with consciously, it doesn't happen automatically. Also, regional balance does not seem to come by the way. However, the spontaneous movement is taking place in the opposite direction to what is desired, and the country's conscious policy must be to achieve regional balance. It's not cheap, it's not easy. To do this, we need bold, straight-back politicians who say that there is no way to move around, there is no cutting back. These politicians look at the budget by looking at whether the impact on Tallinn and rural areas is suddenly somewhat different, who think that the budget must not mean failure for rural and rural people, as this budget means. I'm done with that. On budgetary transparency and reader-friendliness, I do not need to add anything. I'm sure you understand what I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U355	Thank you. Yes, Ivar Padar, is it a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U356	I would like to ask the Minister of Finance whether this is not disrespectful of Parliament if the Minister is not in the Chamber during the speeches of the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U357	The Rules of Procedure do not require this, but it has really been good practice so far that the Minister is in the Chamber during the debate on the Minister's item or his presentation. So I hope the Minister sees or hears this, or his party associates will pass on that request. But we will move on with our debate. Maris Lauri, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U358	Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U359	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U360	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you are very excited about day-to-day matters, but I am still talking about the state budget on the agenda. The state budget is a mirror image of each government, which clearly and openly shows how the government thinks, what it acts for, and what it sets its goals. It is therefore the most important annual document for any government. What is against this bill, the budget that the government has put together for next year? What is the mirror image of this government? The picture that looks back on the budget is actually pretty depressing. But you can't just leave them with a little bit of sympathy. The previous government of Jüri Ratas, of which 2/3 are in the current government, created a budget deficit of EUR 1 billion in three years. Yeah, it's a structural deficit, but it's worse. Tossing the rational principle that good times must be prepared for bad, money was generously thrown to the right and to the left, and also to its own and to those who were wanted to receive votes in the forthcoming elections. Well, we saw what happened in the election. But why talk about it? Because 2/3 of the membership is in today's government. The Prime Minister is the same, and although the finance minister's portfolio has changed, the responsibility remains with all three. The task of the current government should be to liquidate what has been done and to change behaviour, but this has not happened. Emotionally, you could understand if two-thirds were to blame. In its opinion, the Board pointed out that fiscal policies reflected in the budget were not appropriate in the current economic circumstances and that the deficit should be reduced more rapidly. The Council also pointed out very seriously that the country and government do not have a clear and operational picture of the actual state of spending, which is why this year's budget could be the same as last year's budget. In the spring, it may suddenly appear that there is a huge budget deficit. It'll be discovered unexpectedly. In its opinion, the Board also pointed out that, in view of the worse outlook for the economic environment, the budget should take greater account of the economic forecast. It wasn't done. I hope that the Minister of Finance will abide by the promise made today and make a public and then address the Government, i.e. the Prime Minister, and explain publicly why the government failed to take into account the proposals made by the Fiscal Council. But what has the government done with this budget? In the spring, they start scaring me that there's going to be cuts. In the autumn, when they reunited, when the forecasts were essentially the same as in the spring, the necessary money was suddenly found somewhere. It turned out things weren't so bad, and many were happy, but without reason. What is this budget really? It is a budget of word-fragmentation, vision failure and irresponsibility. Severity so much that our questions here were not always based on the view that we felt that some activities were right. Some of the questions were based on the fact that the coalition had made unscathed promises. These promises have also been made in recent weeks when ministers went to committees to explain their budgets. Some ministers shaved the tire and said: no, we will do it, the second and the third, so that no euro will be allocated for this. We're gonna do it, we're gonna do it today, we're gonna do it tomorrow. I want to know what it's like when there's no money. In the 18th century, there was a king in France who has become famous by saying that 'after us come or the Flood'. You can't say that harshly about this government sometimes, but it's quite the same. Looks like the basic mentality is that when this day is over, maybe tomorrow will be easier and the day after tomorrow maybe we won't be in power and everything will be settled by someone else. Deferral things, stacking things, pushing things forward is what is being dealt with, not solving problems. The life of Estonia will be better and more prosperous only if the Estonian economy progresses. This requires economic growth that does not feed on the success of one or two sectors, but on broad knowledge, education, education, smart investments, smart use of Estonia's strengths and openness to the economy. Exports of goods and services are essential for a small economy, but in the explanatory memorandum to the state budget, we read that everything has already been done to develop exports, because there is only one very important measure: excise duties on alcohol have been reduced. Thank God! Why don't we give up the Minister? What about IT in the public sector? It has been one of our stars, the one through which Estonia is known very much in the world. However, IT investments will fall next year. There is a particularly strong decline in the social sector. We can talk about SKIAIS2 and related problems, but in the social field IT does not just mean SKIAIS2. There are other programs that need to be developed. All the more so, the level of IT salary in this area is one of the lowest and we know that IT people are difficult to get into the public sector anyway. R &amp; D is actually added to this budget in the kitchen. Education also seems to be a mockery. The average wage of teachers is in decline compared to the national average, as shown in the explanatory memorandum, and should be 88% of the average in 2023. Is there an exit strategy from EU funds? No, it's not really. It's been dulled out here. Things are postponed, problems aren't solved. If you put it all together, as Minister of Finance, it would have been embarrassing for me to come to the Riigikogu with this budget. As a lecturer, I would send a student back home to study, study, and rework. So, in view of all the above, the Reform Party Group proposes to reject the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U361	Thank you. All the political groups have spoken in the negotiations, so the negotiations are closed. Does the Minister have a wish to speak? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U362	Thank you. I apologise to the members of the Riigikogu and to the political groups whose speech I was not in the Chamber. I promise to read their speeches after the verbatim. But some of the speeches I listened to and said, "No shame." The government has put forward a budget with great pride that is reasonable, respects our political priorities and is very good for the country's economic development. No shame! Support it!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U363	Ladies and gentlemen, The commission has proposed to conclude the first reading, but since the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has proposed to reject the draft National Budget Act 2020 at first reading, I will put this proposal to the vote. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U364	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I would like to ask for a five-minute break before the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U365	Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U366	Honourable Riigikogu! [[It's ringing the bell.]] Attention! The break taken by the Estonian Conservative People's Party has ended and we can continue our sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the voting procedure without an additional call? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to reject the draft State Budget Act 2020 82 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, the lead committee has proposed that the first reading of the draft 82 be completed. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 6 November at 5.15 p.m. Today's fifth item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U367	We can now go to today's last item on the agenda, which is the first reading of Bill 81 on Amending the State Budget Act 2019 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, to waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U368	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Don't all rush off now! I am before you with the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2019, according to which the total amount of expenditure and revenue will not be changed. The draft law amending the State Budget Act 2019 is, of course, based on the State Budget Act, in particular § 43 thereof. Given that the National Budget Act 2019 has been drafted in autumn of last year and that some funding needs have changed, it is appropriate to initiate a change in the state budget in order to better achieve the objectives set by the public authorities. In making this proposal, we have been guided by the desire to make optimal and targeted use of public money, if necessary by reprioritising activities. Proposals for amending the National Budget Act 2019 were submitted to the Ministry of Finance at the end of August, and approved by the Government of the Republic in September. Overall, the draft reflects 56 amendments amounting to around 32 million. This represents less than 0,5% of the total amount of State budget expenditure and investment in 2019. The 3.3 million amendments are made between the areas of government, as illustrated by the table in Annex 2 to the draft explanatory memorandum, while the remaining changes are within the areas of government. The major changes that I note here are as follows: In the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, 8.3 million of the projects will be overtaken and redirected to the operational costs of Estonian Railways. The balance due to the delay in the delivery of special equipment for defence purposes is 7.3 million. This money will be channelled into other important activities of the Ministry of Defence's administration, such as additional educational gathering, foreign missions and additional infrastructure-related activities. Supply of special equipment will be pushed to 2020 and will be included in the budget. In the Ministry of Social Affairs, 3 million welfare programmes are directed to the Health and Welfare Information Systems Centre to make changes to information systems in line with developments in the field. The money released has mainly been found at the expense of the special care service, as the provision of this service has not been implemented in the estimated amount. That concludes my brief introduction, I am happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U369	Thank you. Really, Minister, there are questions for you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U370	Thank you. Mr Helme, this change will, among other things, take away money from KredEx for the reconstruction of apartment buildings. In the last TV debate, the Prime Minister explained this as a new point of view of the Fund: the Fund is looking at the matter from a different angle now and in the future. Tell me what the other angle is when the reconstruction of apartment buildings is no longer important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U371	Thank you. I have to admit, I didn't see this show and I'm not familiar with the quote. But it is true that some of the money has remained unused and has been redirected. Among other things, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has a plan for the reconstruction of apartment buildings, which will leave 5 million unexploited, as you indicated. 3.3 million more remain unused for renewable energy deployment, home support to improve housing conditions for families with children and modernisation of residential electrical installations. These are measures where the use of funds has not fully taken place. I don't know what philosophy is behind this. I understand that this is a purely technical problem, and it has not been possible to use the allocated money as quickly and as efficiently as it could have.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U372	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U373	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of Finance! What happened to Estonian Railways, in fact, that 8 million euros should now be added at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U374	I'll see if I have anything on that. In the case of railways, it is a well-known fact that the Estonian state must maintain infrastructure. This is provided for in the European rulebook. If companies do not carry enough goods by rail, the state must ensure that the railway infrastructure is maintained and the Estonian state has so far done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U375	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U376	Thank you. I'm going to continue the question of thermalizing apartment buildings. The unfortunate minister who got caught lying and whose jurisdiction it was, didn't know what to say about it on Monday. I've taken the numbers out of the Treasury Department. The RES, which was prepared in 2018, went more than 100 million to heat apartment buildings in four years, and in spring this year you kept 7.5 million, while next year's budget is just over 5 million euros. Now you're telling me that money can't be used. This may even be true in the event-based short-term view of this particular measure, I cannot argue here, but the fact is that in spring, EUR 17.5 million went into the call for applications in a minute and a half, there were many more applications. Why don't you prioritize the allocation of resources for the insulation of apartment buildings? In fact, people could save on home expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U377	Well, I've just had a total déjà vu. I think we already talked about this during the debate on the previous draft. There's a lot of requests, there's a lot of applications. In calls for proposals, the available money will be locked very quickly, but those private partners who have done so will not be able to take the next steps. Own co-financing cannot manage or manage design, or if they can manage both of them, they will not be able to manage construction procurement. It is quite clearly a technical problem that the application has been made, the money has been reserved, but it is not being used. Here, I cannot see any political prioritisation behind this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U378	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U379	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I understand what you are referring to: that KredEx itself has not managed these programmes. The explanatory memorandum states that they expect a new regulation to be made and that some money will not be used. Some of the money goes to the railroad and several other places, but it should actually be for the renovation of apartment buildings. But I am asking a broader and forward-looking question. There are places in Tallinn and there may be other places where there is quite a large and massive venture ahead. Houses are ageing, it needs to be dealt with, and this is a major challenge for the next decades. This has been discussed for a decade and will probably be discussed for the next decades. Has it been heard from the government level or the Ministry of Economic Affairs that in the future there would be a need for various KredEx measures and funding? In fact, this should be understood, it will be a major problem in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U380	Thank you. I understand there was a local election launch. The insulation of houses and the improvement of energy efficiency are clearly recognised by the government, and it also ties very well with climate policy. And there are a lot of different sources of euro money that we can use. We are very optimistic, and we believe that we can significantly increase the volume of these programmes in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U381	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U382	Thank you. The feeling of Déjà-vu can indeed arise if the answers to the questions cannot be exhaustive. So I'm gonna try again. The national budget strategy adopted last year in 2018 provided for the reconstruction of over 100 million apartment buildings, i.e. more than 120 million apartment buildings, over four years. This year, you've taken over 100 million out of this money. Of course, there may be problems with specific construction sites in a given year. It may even be true in the details, but I'm asking you about the big picture. During the previous government, as it was thought, 120 million dollars will be spent in four years, that it is a real volume. Did you, then, appreciate that the apartment buildings could actually be reconstructed next year for 5 million dollars, for 2 million dollars next year, and then no house can be reconstructed for two years? Did you, therefore, plan such a sharp cut in this area? Or are there other reasons for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U383	I have to admit that I think that we have gone somewhat smoothly here asking questions about the financing of measures for the insulation of apartment buildings. I haven't prepared myself for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U384	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U385	Thank you very much, manager. Good Minister of Finance! I am asking about the same subject, but with more in mind from the technical side of the budget. You are certainly familiar with the study commissioned by the State Chancellery on the transition from the Stockholm Environmental Institute to a carbon neutral economy. It noted the insulation of apartment buildings and all buildings as the main and fastest carbon reduction measure. If you had taken this as a basis, you would have had to transfer the unused amounts to the next year rather than distribute them for other purposes. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U386	Partly yes, partly no. If the money doesn't come into use next year, what do we keep him there, especially if we have other places screaming for the money? This seems to be a very inflexible or even blunt approach. We want the apartment buildings to be insulated, and we keep some money standing in a pile, but at the same time, there are some drawbacks that are screaming for money, it doesn't make sense. As I said in answer to Mr Michal's question, we are actually seeing very clearly how measures are coming to improve the energy efficiency of apartment buildings in the coming years. I am thinking of both CO2 money and any climate action financed by the European Union. And one of the sources from which we receive money to heat apartment buildings is the performance reserve, which is not reflected in the 2020 budget in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U387	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U388	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I've been looking at transfers in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Again, EUR 3 million will be added to the development of the SKIAIS2. There's an infinite amount of money put in there, there's really money on fire. Someone said the money was on fire in the second pension pillar, but the money was on fire in the SKAIS2. I was wondering if this money would be taken from the special care day care and week care line, would it really be over the money? There is the worst lack of money in this area, with wildly long queues for these services. And now I'm going to read that the money is over there and is going to the development of the SKAIS2. What the fuck is this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U389	Thank you. It really sucks. But in the special care section, money was indeed left over because the provision of these services has not taken place to the desired extent. This means that in some places there have been fewer service users than expected, but in others there has indeed been a situation where demand for services has not been met. Those who need this money will not be able to manage themselves and will not spend it. In regions where there are too few service providers, money remains unused. Once again, if the money has not actually been used up in the first nine months of the year, then we have no point in creating a fake image for ourselves, I don't know. Then we'll transfer the money somewhere else. There are places in the social field that scream for money, after all. I fully share the criticism that has been made here of the reconstruction of the sky. These costs have been absolutely unjustified. But there's no way for us to say that let's not do this SKAIS2 at all, let him be. He fucked up, then he fucked up. Let's go back to the paper and the pen! In fact, this development needs to be completed, and it should be as monstrous as it comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U390	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U391	Thank you, manager. Minister! I'm still asking for a little more detail on the situation with this special care service. This is where we have two different sources of funding again. According to the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs, there are 17,6 million foreign funds. There is also a special care service in the separate budget of the Social Insurance Board, which includes just over 39 million. Which place was saved now? Is it not again that something was financed from external resources in order to release money to fulfil the functions of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U392	Thank you. I'm gonna have to run some numbers now, because I'm not so familiar with the details. Which one we're talking about, the answer, I have to admit, I owe you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U393	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U394	Thank you. That's the question. You said here that if the money wasn't used in nine months, it probably wouldn't work in the other three months. But I'm just reminding you of last year. Maybe the same story will happen this year, so everyone will spend a lot of time in the last month.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U395	Thank you. Very good focus. Last year, the decision was made at the end of the year that budget transfers by public authorities or government areas would decrease to 1% instead of the usual 3%. In essence, it motivated all sectors to put gas to the bottom at cost. But we have been talking since the summer that this year we should definitely avoid that if some money threatens to remain unused, we would ask not to smack it at the end of the year. We have been thinking about what to do, but we have not yet put in place any concrete solutions to motivate governance areas to act in such a way that, if they really don't need money, they will keep it. They should be motivated not to spend this money by force. But a clear signal is given that if you don't need it, please don't look for ways to spend it. This so-called political guideline on governance is radically different this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U396	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U397	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm asking about the SKAIS2. SKAIS2 has been a rather unhappy program for a long time, and it's not going to be finished. In the Committee on Social Affairs, there have been constant hearings and the Social Insurance Board or, in fact, the developers have made promises that they will soon be ready. It was supposed to be ready years ago, but it still isn't. The architecture of this undertaking is still poorly designed. Is the Ministry of Finance still convinced that it is worth investing in? Shouldn't we draw a line down on this program and start from scratch to get the system ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U398	When I was a student and we had the hardest parties to dry out at night, we said that if so much damage has been suffered, we can't stop. I don't know what that alternative might be. I'm still gonna ask you again if anyone's proposing to go to the pen and the paper. It has to be finished. However, if you ask me if we believe that this problem will resolve quickly, cheaply and nicely, then obviously no one will believe it anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U399	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U400	Thank you. Good minister! I will continue with Maris Lauri's question and ask this question: how good are you, as a minister, in terms of the cost of your budget? What regularity are you accountable to and how closely and precisely you follow it, including in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U401	Thank you. I cannot answer how the government collectively deals with this or how ministers individually. But I'm pretty busy working on it. We understand, don't we? There are tens of thousands of budget lines, I don't know. I am thinking of this pretty big Excel table, where every cost of every administration, every agency, is, in principle, identifiable. In some parts, we have also examined this in detail. I cannot answer how regularly we do this, and whether the issues that interest me are the same issues as some opposition ambassador or some other minister. Everything still depends on a specific task setup. But the so-called budgetary dynamics in terms of the overall amount of government, I think, are following relatively regularly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U402	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U403	Thank you, Mr. Helme! The most important news for the press regarding the first reading of the draft budget next year was that lying politicians is unforgivable. Your big picture is right on the front page, it's like it's very basic. Tell me, does this also apply when it comes to the 2019 budget? I hurriedly Googled the lies of politicians, and the first thing I found was four lies by the Minister of the Interior during a single motion of distrust. Of course, I found more than four lies there. Tell me, is this general rule for politicians? And here the conclusions could also follow in the context of the 2019 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U404	Thank you. It's a general standard, of course. But the difference is whether something is objective truth or opposition argument.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U405	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Let's keep going. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U406	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of the draft law amending the National Budget Act 2019 for the first reading on 8 October. The draft was presented by Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, representative of the initiators. As you know, the content of the draft is that according to the State Budget Act, the government may initiate a draft law amending the state budget no later than two months before the end of the financial year, without changing the total amount of expenditure. Given that the National Budget Act 2019 has been drafted last autumn and that some funding needs have changed, it is desirable to make the necessary changes to the budget. The Commission listened to the explanations provided by Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Regina Vällik, Adviser to the State Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance, was also present. The members of the Committee on Finance asked a number of important questions that overlapd with the questions that were put today in the Chamber. We have received the answers of both the Minister and Regina's Field. The Commission made three consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by Wednesday 23 October, to close the first reading, to set ten working days, i.e. 6 November, and to appoint a rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U407	Thank you. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U408	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! We also discussed this Social Ministry thing in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I am thinking of redeploying social rehabilitation services and special care services into the development of the SKIAIS2, where the money really burns, as we have heard. Money burns not in the second pillar, as someone says, but in the development of the SKIAIS2 it burns. We rode over this matter very quickly in the Commission, and I have to say that I did not understand it there. How is it possible that there is money left over from special care and rehabilitation services? All right, there are areas where this service is not particularly provided and there are areas where demand is higher. Then the money can be transferred inside the system, but it was taken away from there and put into the development of the SKAIS2. What's going on in there anyway? I was left confused by the explanation given by the Ministry in the committee, so I'm going to ask you. I didn't get an answer from the minister, and I'm going to ask you. Open this thing up!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U409	Thank you, Aivar, for a good question. We both sat in the same room and we both got to ask questions. You really asked for a welfare program under the Ministry of Social Affairs to reduce social welfare services. Regina Vällik replied that there are not enough providers where this service is needed, and where there are providers there is no demand. I think that this issue may be important, and before we reach second reading of the draft, we call on the Commission's Minister for Social Affairs, because there are other issues in this area. Indeed, we must admit that, during the debate on the state budget, we may not have been able to ask all the questions. However, it is always possible to invite Commission sectoral ministers between the first and second readings and to examine why such decisions have been taken in the ministry. I believe that everyone in this Chamber is interested in social affairs and there are certainly other issues in this area that we can still discuss. Fortunately, the first reading is now underway. There's still time for the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U410	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U411	Thank you, manager. Good chairman of the committee! I will continue on the same subject as regards the financing of special care and rehabilitation services. The special care budget is just about 39 million, and that 3 million is less than a month's budget if we divide the amount in a broad line over 12 months. At first glance, it does not seem to be enough to allow it to be transferred to the next year. The people who need the service are actually there and things can be better organised. It may not be reasonable to take this resource away from those who need it. Perhaps it could be transferred to the next financial year, so that everyone would still receive the service.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U412	Thank you very much for your proposal. When proposals are made for changes to the state budget, the first estimate is how much expenditure this year will be and if there will be no expenditure in this year as much as planned, and there will be a hole in another place where money is needed, then it is natural that it will be executed within the financial year. If we look at the budget for next year, we will see that there has not been a reduction in the money for services in this area, as I recall. I hope I'm not wrong. So there's no point in transferring money then it would make sense to know that the cost could increase. It is clear that this area needs a lot of money, that it would certainly need more money than is offered. But much depends on how well a particular service is available. This is certainly an issue that the Minister of the Sector could be asked about in the Committee on Social Affairs. At present, the draft state budget is in the process and it is possible to review whether there is a need for additional resources for one, another or third area.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U413	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U414	I haven't become a minister yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-23_U415	I'm sorry! Mr President, there are no further questions for you. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But it's okay, you can still be a minister. There's not so much age that can't be done. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading of the draft 81 be completed. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for tabling amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 6 November. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is over and the session is closed. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 6.49 p.m.
