ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 7th working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, there is the opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Yoko Alender, there must be something you want to hand over. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Climate change has recently received a lot of attention. But the question is, what can each of us do? One area where everyone's contribution, consumption and production come together well is the circular economy. Unfortunately, the amount of municipal waste in Estonia has increased steadily in recent years. There has also been a significant increase since 2017 in the storage of municipal waste and reduced take-up of municipal waste. There have also been no positive developments in the collection by category. We know that lately the Ministry of the Environment has done accounting tricks in the methodology for calculating this. In reality, the Estonian people lack the motivation to sort their own garbage. There is therefore no basis for the circular economy in Estonia to exist and function well. I therefore refer an inquiry to the Environment Minister on behalf of the ten representatives of the Reform Party. How is it planned to create incentives to sort waste in homes, businesses and public institutions? What concrete steps does the Minister intend to take to create competitive and functional waste management? Today and tomorrow, the private sector will talk at the conference about what they are doing in this area, but it is important that the legislative framework and the public sector also work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U3	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. I have adopted an inquiry on behalf of the Bureau, and the Bureau processes it in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 19. Let's get to the agenda. Today we have four points on the agenda. I would like to draw the members of the Riigikogu's attention to the fact that on the first and second agenda items everyone can ask the rapporteur an oral question and only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U4	First item: Amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading 86. Mr Raivo Tamme, Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented this draft, including on 7 October. No proposals were submitted by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's board of directors, i.e. 18 October. At its meeting on 21 October, the Committee on Foreign Affairs took the following procedural decisions on the draft: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that 86 plenary days of the Riigikogu be placed on the agenda for the meeting of 5 November and to appoint Raivo Tamm, Member of the Committee at first reading, as rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U6	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. No amendments to the draft were tabled. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations and we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U7	Today's second item is the appointment of the "Auditor" of the decision of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 2019/2021. First reading of the 92nd draft. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U8	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Pursuant to § 5 of the State Audit Office Act, the auditor appoints the National Audit Office to check the activities of the financial year on the proposal of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu. The Monetary Committee initiated the draft decision of the Riigikogu to appoint the National Audit Office on 7 October 2019. Control of the activities of the year is AS Deloitte Audit Estonia. The Finance Committee was based on the results of the purchasing process organised by the National Audit Office. The Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 21 October, where Urmet Lee, Director of the Development and Administrative Service of the National Audit Office, informed us that the National Audit Office needed to be appointed a new auditor for the period 2019 to 2021. Normally, the auditor has checked the economic activities of the National Audit Office in a six-year cycle. The National Audit Office asked for an offer from the largest audit firms using the purchasing procedure and two companies submitted an offer within the deadline. It was decided in favour of AS Deloitte Audit Estonia, which has been operating in Estonia for 23 years and belongs to Deloitte Central European region. The company offers all traditional consulting services: audit, tax and legal advice, financial and management consulting, internal audit. The Commission has taken a consensual decision to place the draft on the agenda by 5 November and to appoint a speaker as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U9	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a desire to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Due to the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, it was not possible to propose amendments to the draft, so we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the decision of the Riigikogu, presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 'Auditor's appointment to the National Audit Office 2019. A draft for monitoring the activities carried out in 2005. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U10	Attention, colleagues. Let's move on to our agenda today. Third item: First reading of the draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U11	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Committee initiated a draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act and discussed this issue on 21 October. The content of the draft is that we want to specify the composition of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, the requirements for the members of the Supervisory Board and the duration of their mandate. The draft consists of six points that would change the regulation concerning the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank in the Eesti Pank Act. The aim is to clarify the starting points for the formation of the Council. The requirement that all political parties belonging to the Riigikogu must be represented in the council is added, as well as experts from the field. The composition of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank must take into account the fact that Eesti Pank is obliged to report to the Riigikogu. It is therefore appropriate that the Council includes representatives of all parties represented in the Riigikogu. The bill states that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank must submit candidates for the new Supervisory Board to the Riigikogu no later than six months before the deadline for the Supervisory Board's mandate. The requirements for the Chairman and members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank to have sufficient knowledge and experience to participate in the work of the Supervisory Board are also laid down, and the Chairman and members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank are not appointed for more than two consecutive terms of office. The limitation of the term of office of the Chairman and members of the Supervisory Board shall be governed by good governance. This ensures that the members of the Supervisory Board change, that new competences and freshness are added to the development and management of Eesti Pank, and that the excessive influence of the same persons on the development of the institution has been avoided. The inclusion of the requirement of knowledge and experience for the work of the Supervisory Board is an elementary principle of governance which applies, for example, to listed companies and companies which are based on good corporate governance practices. The Commission took consensual decisions: to propose a draft on the plenary agenda by 5 November, to appoint a rapporteur and to propose a deadline of 19 November for amendments. To clarify, it is appropriate to consult the European Central Bank on this draft initiated by the Riigikogu Committee after the completion of the first reading of the draft and the examination of the amendments in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U12	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U13	Good manager! Good waitress! Thank you for the excellent bill that sets things right the way a democratic country should be. But my question is, aren't you going to have a problem with the honorary chairman of the party? You're going against the Honorary Chairman of the party. He happens to be the chairman of the board of directors of the bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U14	Thanks for the good question, Peter. I don't know what I'm up against. I think the Chairman of the Council also wants all members of the Council to be competent and competent.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U15	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U16	Thank you. You spoke of a great consensus, but in fact, the consensus was not complete in making these changes. There is one very fundamental thing that you should essentially justify in essence, not by reference to someone else. And specifically, why do one party have two representatives? There is consensus that each party should have a representative, but not that one party, your party, has two representatives. Why is that, and how do we explain it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U17	Thank you, Jürgen, for a very good question. In keeping with the protocol, I say that all decisions were taken by consensus. Jürgen Ligi asked the same question in the Commission as he was currently asking. And the very simple answer is that the President of the Republic, not the Riigikogu, is proposing to appoint the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The Riigikogu confirms this choice. The proposal for the appointment of the Council's specialist members is made by the Chairman of the Board of Governors of four pieces. And all the political groups will be able to present their representatives so that there will be representatives of all the political groups in the Bank's Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U18	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U19	Thank you. However, this is not a substantive answer. You started by saying that every party must have a representative. Whatever mechanism has been implemented has fallen out, it is not now relevant to the fact that one party has two representatives. This is in fact a violation of the political balance requirement. And there was no consensus either in the Presidency or in the Commission. We agree with this draft as a whole, but not with this point. Is there any substantive reason why Mart Laar must also have a party partner in the Council? What's the big idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U20	Thank you, Jürgen, for a good question. There is one clause very clearly in the draft: it is possible to appoint both the chairman and the members for two periods. Mart Laar is currently holding a second term. You're wrong about that. When the representatives of the political groups, or the chairs of the political groups, were together, all the decisions that were reflected in the draft were taken by consensus. You have expressed your opinion as a member of the Riigikogu and the Monetary Commission, and I replied to you on the committee that it is possible to propose improvements between the first reading and the second reading. All amendments will be discussed in the Commission and, finally, voted in this Chamber, which proposals will be supported and which proposals will not be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U22	Good manager! Good waitress! I often disagree with Jürgen Ligi, but right now I agree with him. Still, please explain why it has to be like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U23	Very good question, Peter! You could also consult with the chairman of your political group. The chairmen of the political groups, or the body of elders, discussed these proposals. The draft has sought to reach a consensus between all five parties represented in the Riigikogu. Such proposals came, on the basis of these proposals, a draft was prepared, which I have just presented. All members of the Riigikogu will be able to make amendments within the next 10 working days, which will eventually be voted in this Chamber if they receive at least two votes of support in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U24	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This bill is certainly correct in its nature and will take us in the right direction so that there will not be such a stalemate in an institution as important as Eesti Pank. But do I get it right that the drafters and those who gave their opinion as input will continue to accept that this possibility has been included here? This means that next time we can talk about another party with two representatives. In this case too, are the drafters willing to tolerate it? It was not discussed for very long how to rule out the possibility that two party representatives, one being chairman of the Council, and the other being a simple member, would be on the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U26	Thank you. When preparing this draft, the option that the candidates for a member of the council proposed by the parties were all members of the Riigikogu was also under discussion. There is no such condition in the current draft. Consequently, it is possible that, in the case of some political parties, it happens that it is not represented in the Council as a member of a political group. But since it is the responsibility of the Riigikogu to monitor and control the activities of Eesti Pank and the activities of the Supervisory Board, it is logical that the representatives of all political groups are present in the Council. And that discussion did not raise the problem of whether the chairman of the supervisory board was a member of one, another or third party. The President of the Republic of Estonia will still propose the appointment of the President of the Council to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U27	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U28	Thank you. Good waitress! Was there a solution under discussion in the committee or in some working groups that if the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is a member of a political party, the political group of this party, if it exists in the Riigikogu, cannot present its candidate for the seat of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Bank? Or was it the idea that the chairman of the bank's supervisory board should be a purely apolitical person?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U29	Thank you. It was certainly not the final question in the debate whether the chairman of the Council must be apolitical or may belong to a political party. There were other issues in the debate, but it was agreed by consensus that the draft would be sent to the Chamber in the form that it has now been presented to you. And if there are different opinions and suggestions, I would stress once again that within the next ten working days, it will be possible to propose improvements to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U30	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U31	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am here listening and trying to understand whether the consensus you are referring to was also about the fact that there are two representatives in the Fatherland and the others all one. Do you think this consensus will be in place? Sounder, the chairman of the party, in the meantime, has nodded, you can confirm. Do you think this consensus will survive even if there are voices in the Fatherland equal to the others?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U32	You should be more specific at the end you changed your question. At first, you asked the same question, but then you talked the other way around. Today, the chairmen of all five political parties have supported this draft as it has been presented here. When we came up with the idea of launching this draft in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we had one objective: it is important that there is consensus on this. It is currently the case that the President of the Council is elected on a proposal from the President of the Republic of Estonia, regardless of the political party to which he belongs or does not belong at all. All the political groups represented in the Riigikogu appoint a representative and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board proposes the appointment of five specialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U33	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U34	Thank you. I'll keep asking. You have often expressed your personal opinion when you are on the remote and supported by a surprise-surprise! just a few times the opposition's opinion. I'm asking your personal opinion now. Does it seem to you that what is now in the bill is just and right? Or would you personally still support the fact that if a member of a party is the Chairman of the Board of the Bank, this party can no longer present its representative through the Riigikogu Group?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U35	Thank you for a good question. We need to look at this subject a little bit more widely. We are most likely to confirm the composition of the new Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank here in January-February. By then, the current Chairman of the Supervisory Board has already worked for a little more than a year. At one point, when the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has two terms of office, the President of the Republic of Estonia must appear before the Riigikogu to propose the appointment of a new Chairman of the Supervisory Board. It is likely to happen that it is not a member of the Fatherland Party, but a member of the Reform Party or of a third party, for example. Then we should start discussing whether someone will resign and whether someone new will become a member of the Council. This is not an option proposed in this draft. I personally support the option proposed. After all, the Chairman of the Council is the candidate proposed by the President, whose Riigikogu must approve. It must be considered whether he belongs to a party or not. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board should not be an active politician. I think I agree with most of them on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U36	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When Mr Ligi's disagreement was heard in the committee, did he also discuss how to measure the political background of the President of the Council? Is it enough for him to step out of the political party a week before being nominated by the President, or may he not have been a member of any political party during his life? Did you have this discussion at the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U38	I admit that a very brief discussion was on the subject. I remember I told Jürgen this sentence that in theory the chairman could step out of the party if anyone asked a question about it. But we didn't make a final decision on that. And the members of the council voted in favour of this draft, which has now been brought into this Chamber. Jürgen Ligi too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U39	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You pointed out several times that the President was to appoint the President of the Council. There are two things that this bill seeks. On the one hand, the examination, certain parliamentary supervision, and, on the other hand, democratic representation according to how people have been elected to the Riigikogu. But did you also have such a possible construction on the table that the Estonian President is a former member of the party who resigns or suspends his or her membership to become president, and then appoints a member of the same party as chairman of the council and another member of the same party comes to the council from the parliament? Would this affect the Council's independence and expertise in a positive or negative direction? Did you have that kind of structure in the debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U41	Good Urmas! You asked a very long and very meaningful but also very difficult question. We didn't have the option you brought us here in the debate. I would stress once again that the President of the Council is approved by the Riigikogu, but the President of the Republic of Estonia makes a proposal. Who's he proposing? I hope that when he starts proposing, he will consult with all the political groups of the Riigikogu. When Mart Laar's period is over, the new chairman of the council will be the person supported by the majority of the Riigikogu. Otherwise, he will not be elected chairman of the council. Could a member of a party be the chairman of a council? We think that in the Republic of Estonia it would not be very normal if we said that if you were to become chairman of the council, you would have to do it, the second or the third. At the moment when we support or do not support a person as members of the Riigikogu when applying for a chair, we will decide whether or not that person is fit for that position. And it should not depend on whether he belongs to a party or not. I think he cannot be an active politician, because he cannot be appointed as chairman of the council as a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U42	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U43	Thank you. I would now like to come to the honourable waitress for a little help and ask a yes-or-no question. Since I am deeply convinced that party membership or non-membership, entry or exit cannot change a person's view of the world, I will probably go a little against some of the members of my party. Do you agree that the demonstration of party membership in any institution is a little overrated?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U44	Yeah, I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U45	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U46	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, My group, the Reform Party Group, is the initiator of this draft and, essentially, the author. That is why, of course, we support the draft. But to make it clear what we were arguing about here, a few comments, and that, Mr. Chef, especially to you. It is Parliament who designs and discusses the drafts, and the decisions on the final text will not be taken by any collection outside this great hall. In this case, it was probably practical that this draft be not just a draft of one party, so that it could also be discussed in the presidency and a fundamental decision that, yes, we would make such a law. Let us recall why we had to make such a bill. One factor, of course, is that the law of Eesti Pank has been done a little under other circumstances. But the main motive was the faceless behavior of the chairman of the council, the Honorary Chair of the Fatherland. Although it has so far been good practice and the idea of law that parliamentary parties get a representative in the Council, this citizen started talking about the food chain and whatever and pretended that he, the person appointed by God, was the one who would decide who would represent Parliament. None of the political groups liked it, and that is why our draft was commendably rejected. But there were some strange statements in the process. When my colleague, who has also spoken here today, explained that this is going to end badly, Mart Laar insisted on calling it a threat in the press, even though it was only a very good advice to one of the members of the Council that you should talk to Mardi and say that it would end badly. Well, you see, didn't help, ended badly, and Mart went and started talking about threatening. So much for whether this man is politically active or not, he also found the opportunity to smear his old colleagues with such a compulsion, and he did the same in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at my address. So there is activity and there is. If necessary, he will come to the Fatherland to help. One good result of this draft, which could be mentioned, is that Laar will now no longer be chairman of the Council. It's very practical. He showed that he wasn't really fit for it. I was the one who, as one of the first ones, once said yes, we must give the former Prime Minister a solid position. When he was first appointed to this office, I defended him. I didn't defend again because I saw him abuse that position. Luckily, he won't be determined for the third time. With that, we heard, Aivar Chef agrees. But we did not lock the whole text, either in committee or in the presidency. And that is why I think that there is still a topical question that one party is entitled to have two representatives. Where is that right? And why they keep answering me at the mouth of the chairman of the committee that this is an agreed text. What Parliament is it that cannot discuss and make changes? After all, we just decided that the first reading could be finished. Even in the presidency, we didn't decide that every syllable would remain in place. That would be against the Rules of Procedure. There are several readings on the bill. And that is what we read three times, and we are proposing amendments between two readings. Now, if the party is somehow demonized. Of course, we do not think that the chairman of the council cannot be party. However, if it is, it must be taken into account in the future that one parliamentary party is already represented at the highest level in the Council and no more is necessary. There's no need for another assistant to his already dominant position as chairman. That is why, in my opinion, it is practical that, when the chairman of the Council receives his or her associates, he or she does not take or receive support from his or her party, but has one representative for each party. I think in the heart everyone thinks it's right. You really told me in the committee about three times that he would step out of the party if we made such a change. Let's try it! Maybe step out. But the amendment is practical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U47	Thank you. Aivar Kokk on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U48	Thank you. As for Jürgen's first speech, it seems that I still have to clarify, maybe you didn't listen very accurately. However, I emphasised on several occasions in the Commission, and here too, that all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to make amendments within ten working days after the first reading, which will be discussed by the Commission. And two: you, Jürgen, should listen to what you are saying in the group. I'll read you a few things. When the chairmen of the political groups and the management board of the Riigikogu sat together, it was decided that the secretariat of the Finance Committee would immediately draw up the draft draft of the Estonian Reform Party's political group to be initiated by the Finance Committee. And there were those points in it that you're arguing about right now. It's the bottom of your own party that we fixed up to make it legally better. The Board of Elders decided that the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank was composed of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, one representative and four specialists from each of the Riigikogu's political groups. Isn't that right? I'm gonna say it again and now listen! As I said in my report, at least three times: the decisions of the Riigikogu will be taken by this hall. The Commission's proposals, which receive at least two votes of support, will come to this Chamber for a vote and, finally, there will be 101 members who will take the final decision. All members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to propose amendments; they are discussed in the committee. Those who receive support from the Commission will be sent to the coordination of the European Bank and, when they come back from there, this draft will arrive at the second reading in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U49	Thank you. Henn Põllaas, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U50	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that this bill has reached our tables. And it is very pleased that all five political groups in the Riigikogu are behind it. After all, the need for this law became quite clear when the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank did not submit candidates to the Supervisory Board on the right date. And when he did, we are obviously all in agreement, rather tilted, with the exclusion of members of certain parliamentary parties. This led us all to sit together in the body of elders, where the chairmen of all the political groups are known to belong, and to discuss how to proceed. What's on this table now includes things that we agreed on. At first, the body of elders really had quite a different understanding. Since what's going on in the body of elders isn't nice to point out, I'm not naming who made any suggestion, but I'm just marking some. One of the proposals was to remove the requirement for higher education from the members of the council, because the members of the Riigikogu are not required to do so either. However, this was not agreed, and the author of this proposal finally agreed that the requirement for a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank comes from the Eesti Pank Act, and we do not have the slightest idea or reason or reason to change it. The current draft states that the representatives of political parties come from the political groups of the Riigikogu. There was also an opinion that they could simply be representatives of political parties, but in that case we would still go up against the independence principle of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. If we simply called the representatives of the parties to that council, there would also be party control. However, we wanted to keep it under the pure control of the Riigikogu. The Committee on Finance worked through all these ideas and the original ideas put forward by the Reform Party and finally put the draft in place. Now we have, I'll find, one very good one and the best one under the current circumstances. As for the fact that the Fatherland is the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank and, in future, the appointed person of the Group, we cannot make the law today for tens of years. The next Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank may not be a member of any political party or is a member of the Reform Party or EKRE or anywhere. So I do not see any problem in this respect, all the more so since the position of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has also been clearly set aside in the draft. So I thank you very much that, at least on this issue, the opposition or the opposition declared by Kaja Kallas has not been defeated since the elections. Yet, we also have the ability to cooperate and come to terms with one another. For my part, as a member of the political group and as Chairman of the Riigikogu, I very much welcome this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U51	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 97. First reading is over. I will set the deadline of 19 November at 5.15 p.m. for the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U52	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Tax Act, the Identity Documents Act and the Consular Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U53	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the High House! The Government has submitted a draft law amending the State Fees Act, the Identity Documents Act and the Consular Act in order to amend the state fees for reviewing identity documents. It still has to be done periodically. The state fees for the examination of applications for the issuing of identity documents were last amended in early 2013 and a number of developments have taken place since then. The validity period of the Estonian citizen's passport has been extended, new ways of applying for and receiving documents, e-solutions have been created for the applicant. With the addition of new security features, the security of documents has improved, but the price has also increased. There has been a marked increase in labour costs both in Estonia and in foreign offices, as well as in postal charges for forwarding documents to dispatch points. These changes also require amendments to the Identity Documents Act and the Consular Law. The amendment aims firstly at aligning state fees for operations carried out by foreign representation with actual costs and secondly at changing customer behaviour by channelling them to a more convenient and less labour-intensive way of obtaining and issuing documents for applicants. In conclusion, changes will then take place for certain operations. The state fee shall be increased for the examination of an identity card, a residence card, a residence card for a member of the family of a citizen of the European Union, an application for the issue of a digital identity card, an application for the issue of an e-resident's digital identity card and an application for the issue of a travel document with biometric data. This is 30 euros higher than the state fee charged for the same operation in Estonia. The state fee for an application to change the place of issue of an identity document issued through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall be raised from EUR 50 to EUR 80 and for the examination of an application for the transfer of an identity document issued through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to a foreign agency of a Member State of the European Union from EUR 50 to EUR 100. In addition, the state fee for the issue of documents shall be established at a foreign mission or through an honorary consul. Estonia is one of the few European countries that still issue documents such as return certificates, return permits and European return travel documents free of charge. There has also been a situation where Estonian citizens living abroad do not update the travel document on time. The purpose of the draft is to establish a procedure for a state fee of EUR 20 in the case of loss or theft of a document, but in duly justified cases it would be possible to exempt a person from the payment of the state fee or to reduce the rate of the state fee. In the case of an expired travel document, EUR 100 should be paid as a comfort service for issuing a return certificate or return permit. It should be borne in mind that on 2 February next year a new European Community Code on Visas will enter into force, establishing a short-stay visa at a state fee of EUR 80. A long-stay visa allows for a significantly longer stay in the country of residence and a more flexible regime, which may therefore be subject to a higher state fee. This rate shall be fixed at the latest at the same time as EUR 100. On the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, the draft also incorporates amendments to the State Fees Act relating to the activities of the Police and Border Guard Board and the differentiation of the rates of state fees for the activities carried out at the services of the Police and Border Guard Board and in the self-service environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U54	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U55	Thank you. Good minister! We also held some debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Today's report went so fast in the meantime as if it was a report by Gunnar Hololei from the Pirita-Kose Kloostrimetsa circuit. Maybe after all this chatter, you'll tell the big hall briefly what the new state fees are that didn't exist until now, and also what the rise in the fees are. In conclusion, I understand very well that the coalition has found a way to get one and a half million euros from the Estonian people for all other expenses. I understand you've got an interest in the game, too, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is running a little bit out of it. But basically, maybe you'll tell me what these new services are. Return documents you mentioned, but for which services will the fees rise and how much?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U56	Thank you. There was no vada here, there was a very clear overview of the weighty and analysed document presented by the government. But in fact, this bill pushed us to switch to a programme-based system in the planning of the state budget, and that also means appropriate pricing of the services provided by the state. The analysis that has been carried out has made it clear that we are talking about the universal approach of setting state fees, that they must at least compensate for the costs incurred by the state to provide a specific service to people. This is such a strategic starting point. Your question also concerned the introduction of state fees for services that were previously free of charge. Firstly, the state fee is set at EUR 20 for the issue of documents by a diplomatic mission or an honorary consul. Nor was it previously the national fee for the examination of the return certificate, the return permit and the application for issuing a European travel document for return. And, as I said, when it comes to the loss or theft of a document, the state fee is EUR 20, but in the case of an expired travel document, it would be EUR 100.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U57	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Here, looking at these price increases or the rise in the fees, it doesn't look like a certain percentage, but that's what it is. Here's my question. What do you expect for how long these rates of state fees proposed in the draft will last? How many years will they last?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U59	That's a very important question! One idea in the Commission was whether or not to link these fees to floating or changing sizes. However, the draft does not foresee this. I am telling you that the state fees for examining applications for identity documents that we are discussing today have been in force since 1 January 2013. Our request is essentially a seven-year step to change them. Indeed, no one has any doubt that the increase in the cost of living will also affect the services provided by the state to people. And it must also be taken into account that the majority of these services are provided in an international environment, in other countries. I believe that it is certainly reasonable to foresee a certain time limit here. Stability is also important for state fees. I certainly should not make sense that every year they will be adjusted in an annual cycle. But in itself, when we talk about what Mr Pevkur referred to, indeed, when these charges are raised, more current money will be received into the state budget. It's not a secret, it is. But if people move more to use e-services and start ordering an identity document via e-service, that's the goal, and according to the logic of the state fees, they must be differentiated, then this can certainly be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U60	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U61	Good manager! Good waitress! Good bill, but you, as old minister of justice, explain one thing to me. If the law on state fees has already been amended 62 times since 1 January 2015, i.e. 15 times a year, what about the stability of the legal order? Is it normal or not to have to change one law so often?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U62	This is again a very important issue. I mean, what is it? The starting point is that, in fact, all the financial obligations of the State that arise must be fixed at the level of the law. Here too, earlier in the 1990s, there was a debate on this, where the then legendary Chancellor of Justice Eerik-Juhan Truuväli, Heiki remembers well, defended this principle. It was also said in the past that they could be introduced as some kind of ministerial decree that the government would endorse them or in any way, but such a principle of law-making at the time, in the 1990s, was shaped, and that is why the law must now be amended. Is this necessary for all state fees? I would point out that this amendment really only concerns the area of government of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, the fees for identity documents. After all, state fees are a large area. They can, like a bellow instrument, be stretched and demanded for all the conceivable activities that the state does in providing some kind of service or issuing documents. The range of topics is so extensive. Could they be changed less often if it were an option? Perhaps pile them up into a group once a year, for example, during the state budget procedure? This practice, too, may not be bad. On this draft, I would point out that it was presented in parallel with the draft State Budget Act next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U63	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U64	Thank you. As a follow-up to the same debate, I also asked you in the Commission why the government has chosen this tactic that certain fees have been set well round. You yourself mentioned 20 euros and 100 euros. However, in the case of some fees, the same identity documents law still contains roundings that were made during the changeover to the euro. There are, for example, 64 euros and similar amounts. What, like, do you offer, or what is the concept of government fees as a whole? Will other fees be reviewed and will state fees for identity documents come back to this hall in the near future? So please talk about the government's position as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U65	Yeah, that was a very serious subject for discussion in the committee, too, where you raised such a problem. Well, I'm sticking to the logic of the answer I gave in committee. In itself, this 'ethymology' of state fees numbers is indeed from the time of the crown. In the times of the crown, these sums mostly ended with zeros, and there is no intention of amending it in this draft. The draft deals with one narrow sector: it is the issuance of identity documents abroad. They are issued either by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or by the PBGB in their sector. Think about rounding it up? I'm not gonna rule it out. Well, if you look to the future, that might make sense. At the same time, I have to admit that a person still has to pay either a round sum or a non-round sum, right? And there's some kind of rational logic in the decimal places. If it goes to the level of decades or cents, then perhaps the room of error or slipping is just technically larger. But let me give you an example. The state fee charged for operations carried out by foreign agencies under the Aliens Act is increased to 30 euros higher than the state fee charged for the same operation in Estonia. So if the state fee in Estonia is 24 euros, for example, it is 30 euros higher in the Finnish diplomatic mission, i.e. 54 euros. Could these amounts be rounded in one direction or another? We have so far been guided by a logic that has its own history, by the prehistoric history of the chronicle. The crown is still sending us. As Jürgen Ligi said in his day, when the crown goes out of circulation, he still lives in our hearts. And so he lives on in our legislation with all this rounding ground. It is like our secret language, the secret language of the Estonian kroon.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U66	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U67	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. This bill gives rise to a new state fee for people who have been abroad and who have been either stolen or kidnapped. They've lost their documents, and they're basically out of business. And now the Estonian state says that we will not give you the documents necessary for your return until you pay us the money. The kidnapped person is once more being kidnapped by the Estonian state. Do you consider such a government position morally justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U68	I certainly consider this bill to be morally justified. You have to be careful with your papers. I was in Ukraine yesterday and I heard that it was precisely in Odessa that our tourists would have problems. They have adventures there, nightlife tempts. One person managed to report twice within two days of the loss of an identity document. They're not gonna be stolen. In this case, we are not talking about the loss of a person's entire reputation. We're actually talking about something being stolen, either by passport alone or with karan when you're on a trip. And I would point out that if there really is such a case that a person no longer has any earthly property, only that passport was, then the human dimension must be taken as a basis. Humanity must be the starting point for the Estonian administrative procedure. And according to this logic, it is stipulated that in justified cases, and such a situation will certainly qualify for such a case, the state fee may be exempted or the rate of the state fee may be reduced. The country doesn't go where there's nothing to take. That wouldn't be fair. Honesty must also be the starting point for the fair application of such a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U69	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U70	Good manager! Good waitress! I've asked many times about state fees here at different times. Still, these calculations are based on how much someone official there spends on paper or how much he scratches the table... I would like you to send me an overview of how the Republic of Estonia is dealing with the calculation of state fees in different institutions. Moreover, if they are so often changed. I will now read this specific draft. For example, you have to pay 4 euros and 99 cents for sending a document to a foreign agency. Why 4 euros and 99 cents, not 5 euros or 5 euros and 01 cents? Where do these calculations come from? I would remind you that these issues have been discussed repeatedly in this Riigikogu. These are strange figures that do not match the calculations of the state fees of the various agencies.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U71	This is an important and important issue. Indeed, you have rightly pointed that out before. As regards the "perimeter" rates of this draft, I dare say that these estimates were made by experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with the introduction of this programme-based system of the state budget. How accurate can they be now? I guess it's human logic after all. Indeed, labour costs and postage costs just try to distinguish them in some sectors and try to calculate the working hours of an official on a conditional basis, but there is certainly a subjective factor in the game, I do not rule that out at all. But the general pricing logic is, I think, in place. If you are specifically interested in the 4.99 that must be paid if the PBA amends the issue of the document, the substantive justification for this is that the change of the place of issue for a document issued through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is subject to state fees. And the costs of the state fee currently paid for the examination of the application for a document are not covered. It is therefore reasonable and justified to charge the state fees for forwarding a document to a foreign agency within Estonia or from the service of the PBGB. It's a cost you wouldn't have if you didn't have to change the delivery point. Logistics and other such costs will in any case remain, but this calculation will still reflect the cost of human resources. This is the basis of the calculation. Whether this cost now exactly 4.99 is the right here to kick out a sort of purism, the precision of experts, which is also expressed in cents. I do not rule out that, in order to prevent people from making transfers, it may be worth considering rounding that amount to five. I think that this should be seriously considered in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U72	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U73	Thank you. That was a beautiful story now, Minister, which you were talking about. In a word, humanity and the possibility of granting exceptions and so on. But it's all gonna be like this in plain words. Juhan Viiding has such a beautiful poetry line that the uniform makes sense, the story is hatch. What we heard was hatch, it was a story, but the form is what the law provides. And such possibilities for exemption from state fees should not be a matter of arbitrary law, but should be specified in more detail in the law. Have you considered the possibility of introducing more precise conditions in the law in case a person is in real trouble, in which case he or she will be exempted from the state fee?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U74	I fear that in this case we would be at risk of conflicting with the second expectation of our legal environment. After all, we want to avoid overregulation. I'm sure we can design a variety of cases, but I think we should examine the hearts of the people, and that's where we'll find the answer. We must assume that our officials will apply the law of the Estonian state, adopted as legislator by this high house, in such a way that they do so with reason and heart, being impartial, being honest. And believe me, the future of our country will be much more secure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U75	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I still have a question of how this will make it quicker, more convenient and more affordable for individuals to apply for documents. Does this mean that there is also a plan to increase the number of officials at some point? Let me just give you an example. If I take my papers in exactly the same way, just like I get my documents back from the embassy, how does that make it faster and more comfortable?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U77	Well, that is, let's say, a broader reform that is actually intended to be implemented with a certain transitional period, as it also requires information technology changes concerning the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior. I mean, what's the situation now? It is not normal in this sense that we are proud of our digital state, but now the situation is that I live in a country like South America or Oceania, for example, but I have to drive far, be in my physical form around the room, go to the Estonian embassy, hand in my personal signature paper and get my passport later, I have to go back. We are talking here about state fees, he is 4,99 or 80 or 100 euros. We can consider that the cost of money that Estonian people incur by such travel around the world is greater in size than the state fee. Plus time. So, what is reasonable and what did the government decide this summer? Firstly, to set a course to allow these applications to be submitted digitally around the world. And second, if it's possible, if there's security, to issue documents using a courier. The courier actually delivers them. It's ordered from him, and then, of course, the courier fee will have to be paid by the person, but it's still cheaper than a plane ticket and more time. Of course, we imagine that if something is sent in an envelope, it's even cheaper. This is actually the direction we want to move to. We mean a two-year perspective, and I am sure that we will be able to meet the challenge successfully. At the moment, the situation is really that Latvia can do it, and the United Kingdom can do it. So how come we can't do it? We'll get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U78	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U79	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for his presentation and for answering the questions. However, I have the opportunity to bring to you the debate that took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to give you an easy overview of this. I say right away that the Minister also answered the same thing in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a very large number of questions that were heard here today. Thus, on Tuesday, 22 October, the Constitutional Committee held 78 discussions on the draft law amending the State Fees Act, the Identity Documents Act and the Consular Act, of which Kalle Grünthal, Siim Kiisler, Hanno Pevkur and Paul Puustusmaa took part as members. Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu was also present, who answered the questions. Tiina Nirk, Director General of the Consular Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Elen Kraavik and Kristen Kanarik, advisers of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, were also involved. Urmas Reinsalu also explained in the Commission that the important aim of the amendments is to bring the state fees for operations carried out in foreign offices into line with actual expenditure. The draft has been designed in particular to cover the costs of receiving applications, issuing documents and using the postal service. In addition, new state fees for issuing documents will be introduced at the Estonian diplomatic mission or through the honorary consul, which has so far been a free service. The second objective is to change people's behaviours and to guide them to use less labour-intensive ways of applying for and issuing documents to applicants and processers. People now need less money to apply for an Estonian citizen's passport, even if this state fee is increased, as the validity of the passport is ten years instead of five years. Just as here today, Mr Pevkur asked the Minister several questions relating in particular to the level of state fees: which goes up, which goes down, how much something has been rounded up. He also asked the fundamental question whether this was perhaps a situation where they simply wanted to get more money into the state budget, and how much is it? We have received a clear answer that this is an amount of EUR 1.5 million if the statistics remain the same. To the other questions concerning the different rates of these state fees, there were very many which were rounded up and down, Tiina Weasel replied that the domestic fees would not be changed by this draft. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also commented that the State Tax Act is not administered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, the Minister also noted separately that, as far as these same decimals are concerned, the rates could indeed be rounded up. This is a subject that could be put on the agenda. Hanno Pevkur also asked how such taxation would contribute to the 'Global Estonia' programme. In the past, the return to Estonia was free of charge, and now you have to pay for it, or what about it? In addition, Tiina Weasel replied that the return certificate should be paid for when the person has lost his or her documents abroad or the document has expired. Under the State Fees Act, the consul has the right to exempt a person who is unable to pay that fee from paying the state fee. This is the factor of humanity that the Minister referred to here today. There were a number of other issues concerning the costs incurred and, in principle, whether they were fairly covered. It was also asked whether it could be linked to indexation in any way. Kalle Grünthal wanted to know exactly how much these costs are now. He asked how much the real cost of issuing a single document, such as an ID card or a passport, could be. Tiina Nirk commented on this point, stating that the cost of sending a single document to a Member State of the European Union is EUR 40.50. That's where the need to raise the fee comes from. To the question of how many documents were sent during the year, Tiina Nirk replied that last year there were 52000 operations in foreign offices relating to identity documents. So it's actually a significant number. Following the debate, procedural decisions were taken: proposing to put the draft on the agenda for today (this decision was consensual), proposing to stop reading the draft at first (by 3, abstention 1), proposing to set the deadline of 15 November at 4 p.m. for amendments (consensus decision) and to appoint the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur, i.e. me. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-05_U80	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 78. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline of 15 November at 16 a.m. for the submission of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's agenda and closes the session. Thank you. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.16 a.m.
