ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U2	Dear President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid! Mr President Rüütel! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Government of the Republic! Constitutional officials! Your Excellencys! Ladies and gentlemen! We will begin the first session of the first session of the XIV Riigikogu. I am Meelis Eerik, Chairman of the Election Committee of the Republic, and pursuant to § 2 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, I will chair today's session until the election of the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U3	The President of the Republic of Estonia, Kersti Kaljulaid, has the floor to open the meeting. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U4	Mr President Rüütel! Dear Members of the XIV Riigikogu! Good people of Estonia! Excellencys! Incoming! There's no point in twirling, we're standing on the brink of difficult times. As, by the way, mostly in the history of our country. Our location on the map and our population are inevitably the factors that keep our things complicated at most times. It is easy to make mistakes, and as one of Europe's smallest countries, we simply never have enough strategic depth to be sure: mistakes do not pose a threat to our survival. That is why we must be sincere in our situational assessments and, together, we must honestly look for the best future for Estonia. All together, for all the people of Estonia, for all the Estonians, for everyone else, who also cherish Estonia. I very much agree with those who say that this house, which we have been able to build quickly and quickly in 30 years, has a beautiful view from its rooftop and is quite well furnished. But the sun doesn't shine in every room. I understand those who would like to tear this building down and start over, hoping that there will be a sunny corner in the new building. The development of our society over the last 30 years, when we have managed to take back about half of the 50-year economic deficit caused by our occupation, has undoubtedly been a success story. However, apart from the rapid growth in productivity and incomes, this success has also had another side of the social change that has been painful to bear. As I have said many times and repeatedly, we have been rather incompetent in balancing society, particularly through social policy measures. Estonia's transformation is inevitable on the one hand: urbanisation, job losses in the rural economy, increased income inequality. This has been the case in all developed countries. Only we've had these processes really fast. The pick-up rate has been high, but the negative side effects have also been more complicated. It is obviously not practical to dismantle what has already been done and start all over again, even though this could lead to a significant redistribution of resources in society, as is the case with sudden changes. But we know and what to deny there, we also see it now in at least one of the major countries of the European Union, that it will lead to confusion and also economic chaos. As I have already mentioned, we probably do not have enough strategic depth because of our location or population, so that the demolition work does not become dangerous for our country. We are also still among the European centres in economic terms, so the fall in scrapping work would be a much bigger problem for us than for some quite rich countries. So, no revolutions! Yeah, let's be conservative! A true conservative is the one who is sufficiently able to appreciate and balance the changes that are taking place in society and in society so that we never need a revolution. Such conservatism is necessary. Let us keep what has been done and speak honestly about what better to do in the future by building rather than dismantling. Let us acknowledge our success as an e-governance. Let us be proud of our role in the European Union and NATO, not just as a member, but as a constructive and conscientious partner. I want to congratulate and thank all the Estonian politicians who have brought us this far. But we are also honestly talking about how to improve the functioning of society. Happiness does not reach every yard of Estonia simply and by itself. Life in the countryside is no longer providing as many jobs as it was 30 years ago because of today's productivity. And frankly, none of us would want these collective farm jobs, because a job with low productivity would never make a reasonable wage. At the same time, there are ideas with which to level out differences in regional development. For example, it is easy to understand that no cent of declining euro payments must be spent in the capital, but this money should be used to clean up remote villages. It would certainly help if corporate tax were to be distributed in such a way that the municipality would also benefit more from the region's business. We must be strong in ensuring that our county centres remain strong centres (and in some places they become them again) where there is everything everyday that a person needs over his or her life cycle. I am still very convinced that it is still too long for local authorities to go to offer their people social guarantees to the extent that the future of our country's life would actually allow. Yes, it has taken the municipalities longer to understand their responsibilities than I would like, but failure is not only a harassment of their guilt and the uncoordinated ministry bureaucracy that often plays a role here. Social exclusion also occurs, of course, in the capital city and elsewhere in the larger centres. We still do not have a low level of language skills, but the network of kindergartens and schools in Estonian is one of the main factors here. It is no privilege to remain speechless in the country where the work is done, either temporarily or permanently. It's not a privilege to grow without tongue. The continuation of the bilingual school system for an indefinite period is a threat to the survival of Estonian language and culture, and this does not increase the coherence of the Estonian state in any way. We have one official language. We're responsible for making sure all kindergarten graduates know how to do this. You see, you have a lot to do. Fortunately, however, the economic opportunities created in 30 years will actually allow us to serve the entire Estonian people. Serve those who have been led to anxiety, so that they would rather be demolished and start over. If we act together and honestly, we can reunite our society. But it really requires honesty and sincere will to understand everyone and, in addition to seeing the benefits of its own political decisions, always admitting and seeking relief from the negative side effects. We are not in favour of a large geopolitics at the moment either. Indeed, the biggest risks of today's world for our largest ally, with global power, for the United States, are far away from China and the wider region of Southeast Asia. The only reason why the United States could want to spend its resources in our region is to ensure our security is because of common values. Our common values. The same values as the Jefferson Monument in Washington and the United States Declaration of Independence. Values in our Declaration of Independence and our Constitution. Section 12 of the Estonian Constitution says: "Everything is equal before the law. No one shall be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. Instigation of national, racial, religious or political hatred, violence and discrimination is prohibited and punishable by law. It is also prohibited and punishable by law to incite hatred, violence and discrimination between strata of society." And then on. The whole of the Constitution II. Chapter 2 describes the freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution to our people throughout their diversity, stating, inter alia, that there is no censorship, that science and art and their teachings are free, that everyone has the right to remain true to their opinions and beliefs. Of course, every other aspect of freedom formulated is always a responsibility for how we use our freedom. Freedom of expression doesn't justify lying. A reasonable focus on risks is not intimidation. Nonconsultation is not treason. The disagreement with the other points of view does not in any way give him the right to be foolish and to be condemned to the world. A journalist's uncomfortable question doesn't have to be answered if he doesn't know or if he doesn't want to, but he can't refuse to ask. Otherwise, Estonia would no longer be among the free media champions. Of course, the opinion, fact, and comment should not be clearly separated. It is also the sense of responsibility of journalists, which keeps us among the champions of free journalism. Estonian Constitution II. Chapter 3 is particularly clearly devoted to democratic values. It's a bond that keeps us in common with all our allies. This is the main text of the Estonian state, which proves to the world that we belong to a free Europe. This is a text that is sacred to everyone who serves the Estonian state as an official, a politician, a military officer, a police officer, a teacher, a doctor, a journalist, an artist. This is a text without which our country would not be free. This is a text without which our people in our country would not be free. And this text is one of our security guarantees. The meaning of our constitution lives when we use democratic values as citizens and patriots of Estonia and let others use them. In front of the Constitution, all world views are equal as long as they do not conflict with the general rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution. Those who hold every view of the world are welcome to participate in the political process and compete for seats in the Riigikogu. Upon arriving here, each member of the Riigikogu is free in his mandate and can rely on the Constitution and his own value compass. By the way, in the event of a conflict between the two latters, there is a constitution. What is happening in our country today is a functioning democratic process. There is nothing wrong with democracy in Estonia. It was the voter's responsibility to put together a new Riigikogu and the voter has done so. The elections were held, the winner has been announced, the parties are free to discuss possible government cooperation and every member of the Riigikogu is free to evaluate the prime minister candidates. As President, I do not have the right to assess the support of members of the Riigikogu for one candidate or another prime minister. The only way to find out who has the support of the Riigikogu is through this hall. It is natural that a winning party can begin to seek support in this Chamber. Today the XIV Riigikogu begins its work. Everyone here, as I said, is the result of democratic processes. Estonian democracy works. However, perhaps we should think about why it is that a month after the elections, a large number of people feel that something has been broken in our society. It's as if some agreed boundaries no longer apply. And it is not a question of world-view views, but often of courtesy and respect. Respect for one another and for all our people. Yes, I think that we do not have elections to the democratic crisis and that the next elections are procedurally compatible with the Constitution and democratic values, but we do have a crisis of values. The freedoms and values described in the Constitution, as well as the defenders of these freedoms and values, are being attacked on various pretexts. Those who, because of their work, stand in the defence of values and freedoms will be attacked, but those who speak as citizens will also be ridiculed to preserve our freedoms and values. Sekka, of course, is teasing and ridiculing those who feel that their current trends do not meet their needs, and who are therefore also sceptical about freedoms and values themselves. If we allow it to deepen, our democracy will soon be in crisis. But then it'll be too late. What can I do? That's always the most important thing: what to do? You have to set an example. And to make it easier to set an example, let me finish with a little personal imprint. This imprint has always supported me when I have spoken to this board, to a committee of the Riigikogu or to a political group as President of the Republic or in some other role. It was in 1999. A minister came to the Riigikogu with a plan that he himself sincerely believed in and that he felt was necessary for things to go better in Estonia. The debate in this Chamber did not become, you could say, excessively constructive. Maybe the plan was bad, but the minister wasn't sad because the plan didn't fly. He felt that this hall had attacked him, the person, not his plan, and questioned his mind, and if I remember correctly, even his appearance. When discussing the matter, Eiki Nestor, then Minister of Social Affairs, said: "Look, friend, remember one thing for good, or at least for as long as you are a minister in the Republic of Estonia, because it is a very important, most important thing at all. And that's right, you're talking to your people about the Riigikogu remote. Never just with this hall. Never with the person who asked you a question. Never just the person who's been mocking you or even insulting you by asking in this hall. This remote control is spoken to your people and only your people. " The old hippie is not here today, so say hello to Hiiumaa. But thank you, Eiki! I am sure that many in this Chamber will remember some of the lessons you have taught about the pain and pain of representative democracy, which, while in the Riigikogu, will help to represent the entire people and speak to the whole people about this speaker. Reach to work, respect for each other and our people!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U5	Thank you very much, President of the Republic. Dear Riigikogu, we are conducting a presence check. Checking for presence. I'm interrupting the presence check for technical reasons. Can we retake the presence check? Doesn't work. We'll explain the circumstances. Okay, last try. Question: can a presence check be carried out? Is there someone whose remote control doesn't work? Sure. Okay. We'll conduct the presence check as follows. Don't move your card, just push the button. It's a test. Checking for presence. The presence check is complete. There's a... Okay, okay. The result is this: the verification of the presence by electronic means failed, but I appreciate that 101 members of the Riigikogu are present. [[Let's hear it.]] We're going on with our operations now. In order for a member of the Riigikogu to exercise his or her powers, he or she must take an oath of office.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U6	The next item is the taking of oaths, but before that there is a procedural question. Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please also press the speech button if it works for you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U7	Thank you, Mr President. My assessment of presence is slightly different from your assessment, my eye is now grasping 100 members, not 101 members. I think we need to be specific here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U8	Let's get this over with. Namely, every member of the Riigikogu must take an oath of office and therefore we can see exactly who is and who is not present. We're moving on to taking the oath now. I ask for a chair of speech to read the text of the oath of office in Enn Frontland, the oldest member of this composition. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U9	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U10	I now invite the members of the Riigikogu to sign the oath of office in alphabetical order: Jaak Aab, Merry Aart, Arto Aas, Taavi Aa, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka, Kolka Thank you very much, President of the Supreme Court! As a result of the oath of office, I re-evaluate my previous position on the number of members of the Riigikogu present: there are 100 in attendance. Mr. Helir-Valdor Seeder, you have a sharper eye than I do. Dear Riigikogu, on behalf of the Riigikogu Election Committee, I congratulate you on taking up your duties. [[Sings the girls' choir Ellerhein. Let's hear it.]] In the performance of Kullo's girls' choir Ellerhein, Pärt Uusberg's song "To Music." Thank you to the singers and conductor Ingrid Pumpkin. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U11	Honourable Riigikogu! According to § 69 of the Constitution, the Riigikogu elects the President of the Riigikogu and two vice-chairmen from among its members. In organising elections, the Election Committee of the Republic follows the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Before we go to the election procedures, let me briefly introduce you to the election of the Riigikogu Board. First, the President of the Riigikogu is elected. After the election of the President of the Riigikogu, the vice-chairmen are elected at the same time. Every member of the Riigikogu may set up a candidate. After the election of the Chairman of the Riigikogu, candidates for Vice-Chairpersons shall be appointed and the proposed person shall give his consent to the application. Voting shall be by secret ballot. Each member of the Riigikogu has one vote in the election of both the Chairman and Vice-Chairpersons. The votes shall be taken publicly as soon as the vote is closed. Objections to the organisation of the vote shall be submitted to the selection panel immediately after the end of the vote and the protest on the outcome of the vote shall be made public immediately after the outcome of the vote has been announced. The election results will be announced after the protests have been examined. A candidate who receives more than half of the valid votes shall be elected Chairman of the Riigikogu. If no candidate receives more than half of the valid votes, an additional round shall be held between the two candidates with the highest votes. In the case of equal votes, lots shall be cast. If there is only one candidate on the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu, he will be elected if he receives more votes in favour than against. I will introduce the voting procedure to you before the vote is announced. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions about what has been said so far? Any questions? Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U12	No, I didn't have a question, I wanted to propose a candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U13	We're almost there. There are no questions. Now I ask whether one of the members of the Riigikogu wishes to propose a candidate for the Chairman of the Riigikogu. Martin Helme, please come to the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President Rüütel! I present Henn Põllea as the candidate for the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U15	Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U16	Ladies and gentlemen, The President of the Republic recalled the words of Eiki Nestor, the president of the previous composition, that this panel was spoken to his people. Each word has a weight, because the word is an act. The Chairman of the Riigikogu is formally only the chairman of the sitting for a large part of his time, but he plays a much broader role in the democracy of Estonia, both as a balance between the various party-political disputes, but also as an open defender of parliamentarianism and value in society. On behalf of the Social Democrats, I present Sven Mikser as the candidate for the Chairman of the Riigikogu. Sven Mikser is a worthy candidate for this dignified position. He is one of Estonia's most experienced parliamentary politicians, and as an indisputable tip of Estonian foreign policy, our country would also be represented perfectly in diplomatic communication. However, in view of the value of the opposite candidate and the vision of society, it is perhaps more important that Sven Mikser is convinced that he is a defender of the rule of law, of the freedom of every person and of parliamentary democracy. Tomorrow, 100 years ago, the election of the Constituent Assembly began. The Constituent Assembly adopted Estonia's first constitution, one of the most democratic and liberal in the world. Our constitution today is also reflected in the same values. August Rei, Chairman of the Constituent Assembly, said in his first speech in Estonia at the session of the Constituent Assembly: "Our first task must be to determine the state order of Estonia. Estonia must become a republic in which justice and democracy prevail, and the most important task must be to resolve the acute issue of land. "Fortunately, we no longer have a sharp land issue on the agenda, but sad as it may be, Estonia's retention as a republic based on justice and democracy is a hundred years later, today, again on the agenda, also in this vote. Consequently, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support freedom and vote in favour of Sven Mikser. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U17	Thank you. Any other suggestions? A procedural question. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U18	We have just heard a very nice speech, but as a candidate, the Social Democratic Party Group was appointed. I would like to point out that we do not have any political groups in this House yet. And since there is no performer, the candidate is incorrect. Please don't put him on the list of candidates!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U19	Thank you! We have more speeches. Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U20	Thank you, Mr Helme, for this observation. I am well aware of what he has mentioned, and I have therefore used the words 'on behalf of the social democrats' in my speech. In written form, the proposal has been submitted by the member of the Riigikogu, Jevgeni Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U21	A written statement has been submitted by Jevgeni Ossinovski. Are there any other proposals concerning the candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu? There are no other proposals. According to § 7 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the proposed person must give his or her consent to the application. Let's take the presentation order. Mr. Henn Põllaas, are you willing to stand as Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U22	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U23	Thank you very much. Please also give your consent in writing. Well, we have it now. Mr. Sven Mikser, do you agree to apply for the chairmanship of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U24	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U25	Thank you very much. Please also give your consent in writing. Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu, I close the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu and announce a break for the appointment of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu on ballot papers. I'll give you a signal when the break's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U26	Dear Riigikogu, the intermission is over. The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready to conduct the election of the President of the Riigikogu. Allow me to introduce you to the voting procedure. The election committee gives the member of the Riigikogu a voting slip on the basis of an identity document, which is a certificate, passport, identity card or driving licence of a member of the Riigikogu. You'll sign for the receipt of the note. The ballot papers shall be filled in in the voting booth. A member of the Riigikogu shall tick a cell with a cross on the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he or she votes for. Voting ballots which bear the name of more than one candidate or which do not bear the name of any candidate shall be deemed invalid. Voting is organised in the lobby next to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. You're leaving the back door of the voting room. After receiving the ballot paper, you will make your decision in the voting booth, fold the note and go to the voting box where, after you stamp the note, you will personally put the ballot paper in the ballot box. If you have broken the ballot paper or lost the note and discover it before you put it in the ballot box, you have the right to receive a new ballot paper when you return the corrupt note. That's the order. Any questions? There are no questions. During the elections, only members of the Riigikogu Election Committee and persons serving them may be present in the voting room. On the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the time allowed for voting is 30 minutes. Let's check the voting box and seal it with a security seal. It's 12:42, 30 minutes to vote. I declare a recess for the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U27	Honourable Riigikogu, I declare the vote closed when the President of the Riigikogu is elected. Please bring the ballot box to the hall! Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of voting? There are no protests. Please check the voting box and make sure the security seal isn't tampered with. We can start counting voices. [[The election board reads the votes.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U28	I will make a public check here before you to see if the initial voting results correspond to reality. That is, I name the names of the candidate for the President of the Riigikogu in the order they are entered on ballot papers, and I name the votes cast by the candidate. Henn Fieldase: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55. [[Let's hear it.]] Sven Mixer: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U29	Thank you very much. I will announce the results of the vote in the election of the President of the Riigikogu. Minutes of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the results of the election of the President of the Riigikogu: "The Election Committee of the Republic determined the following figures when counting the votes. The number of members of the Riigikogu included on the list is 101. The number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballot paper is 100. The number of members of the Riigikogu who took part in the voting is 100. Number of unsuccessful ballot papers 0. The number of votes cast on the candidates for the President of the Riigikogu: Henn Põllaas " The protocol is signed by Meelis Eerik, President of the Republic Election Commission. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any protests regarding the determination of voting results? There are no protests. The electoral committee of the Republic shall finalise the decision. Honourable Riigikogu, I declare the results of the election of the President of the Riigikogu: "The decision of the Election Committee of the Republic on 4 April "Identifying the results of the election of the President of the Riigikogu": pursuant to § 7 (5) and § 82 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Election Committee of the Republic decides: to recognise Henn Põljaas as elected Chairman of the Riigikogu." [[Let's hear it.]] Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, congratulations! Now, please come to the post, I'll hand over the command.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U30	Honourable Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your confidence. However, we will proceed with our work and the hearing. The election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu is now followed. The selection procedure is essentially the same as the one that we carried out when the Chair was elected. The two candidates who have received the most votes will be vice-chairmen of the Riigikogu. The first vice-chairman shall be the candidate with the highest number of votes and the second candidate with the highest number of votes received as vice-chairman. An additional round of elections will be held among the equal votes gathered. I will present the voting procedure before the vote is announced. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? No, it's not. Does one of the members of the Riigikogu wish to appoint a candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu? Please come to the speaker's desk. The word is Aivar Kokal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U31	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present a serious rural man, who has seen more than Tallinn over the years, put his fingers in the ground and raised animals, but the most important thing is that he was my penguin during the previous term, and I hope he will also be there during this term. This is Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U32	Next, please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U33	Mr. Chairman! I present Siim Kallas as the candidate for Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. He represents liberal democracy. This word requires a break, that is, not only democracy but also the rule of law, separation of powers, civil and political rights, the market economy. Siim is a dedicated defender of these values. These values must also be represented on the Board of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U34	Any other suggestions? There are no more proposals and no more requests for nominations. According to § 7 (2) of the Home and Working Procedures Act, the proposed person must give his or her consent to the application. Mr. Helir-Valdor Seeder, do you agree?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U35	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U36	Please also give your consent in writing. Mr Siim Kallas, do you agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U37	Yeah, I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U38	Please also give your consent in writing! Honourable Riigikogu, I close the list of candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu and announce a break to include the names of candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu on ballot papers. I'll give you a signal when the break's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U39	Break's over. The Election Committee is ready to conduct the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Members of the Commission will check the ballot box and seal it with a security seal right here in front of you. The voting procedure is the same as that for the election of the President of the Riigikogu. A member of the Riigikogu shall tick a cell with a cross on the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he or she votes for. Voting ballots which bear the name of more than one candidate or which do not bear the name of any candidate shall be deemed invalid. Do members of the Riigikogu have any questions about voting? No, it's not. According to § 87 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, members of the Riigikogu have 30 minutes to vote from the beginning of the voting. It's 1:43. I shall give a signal of the end of the vote and then ask all members of the Riigikogu to reconvene in the Chamber. I declare the vote on the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U40	Dear Riigikogu, the intermission is over. The Election Committee is ready to conduct the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. The members of the Commission shall check here... Oh, yeah, first I'd ask the Election Commission to bring the box to the hall. Okay. Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of voting? No, it's not. In that case, I would ask the electoral commission to check whether the security seal on the voting box is intact and has not been violated. Thank you! I would ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] I ask the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly. Please, Member of the Election Commission, Meelika Aava!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U41	Thank you. I will make a public check here before you to see if the initial voting results correspond to reality. This means that I will name the candidates for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu in the order that they have been entered on ballot papers, and I will read the votes they have given. Helir-Valdor Seeder: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55. [[Let's hear it.]] Siim Kallas: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 44. One ballot record is invalid because neither cell is marked.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U42	I will read out the minutes of the Riigikogu Election Committee on the results of voting in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu: "The Election Committee of the Republic has established the following figures in the counting of votes. The number of members of the Riigikogu included on the list is 101. The number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballot paper is 100. The number of members of the Riigikogu who took part in the voting is 100. Number of unsuccessful ballot papers just 1. The number of votes cast on the candidates for the vice-presidents of the Riigikogu: Helir-Valdor Seeder 55 votes, Siim Kallas 44 votes." Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the determination of voting results? No, it's not. Please complete the decision of the Republic Election Commission. "Decision of the Election Committee of the Republic "Identifying the results of the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu": pursuant to § 7 (6) and § 82 (1) of the Riigikogu Act, the Election Committee of the Republic decides: declare Helir-Valdor Seeder elected as the first Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and Siim Kallas as the second Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu." [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Board of the Riigikogu has been elected. With your consent, I would like to ask Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, first vice-chairman, to my right hand and Mr Siim Kallas, second vice-chairman to my left hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U43	Let's move on to our hearing. The next item is the resignation of the Government of the Republic. Dear Riigikogu, I would like to ask the Prime Minister of the Speaker's Board, Jüri Ratas, to make a statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U44	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu Board! Very Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the outgoing government, I congratulate the members of the XIV Riigikogu. I thank the ministers of the outgoing government for serving the Estonian people. Pursuant to § 10 (1) (1) of the Government Act, I declare the resignation of the Government of the Republic of Estonia under § 92 (1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-04_U45	Thank you, Prime Minister. According to § 11 of the Government Act, the government will continue its activities until the new government takes office. The first session of the XIV Riigikogu is closed. One message, ladies and gentlemen. Please gather all members of the Riigikogu to take pictures in the lobby on the first floor of the Riigikogu building! Closure of the sitting at 2.33 p.m.
