ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Let's get to work. We will begin the 4th working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I am prepared to adopt drafts and enquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu's board if there are any. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U2	Good manager! Good Riigikogu! Last year, in cooperation with the coalition and the opposition, the best law of the year was passed on to supplement the Law on Investment Funds, which improved the organisation of the funded pension system. 17 years ago, the central objective of the pension reform was to alleviate the pressure of an ageing population to fund pensions. The three-pillar system in Estonia is internationally recognised and the original objective is still appropriate. The savings pension, the second and third pillars, plays a key role in the pension system, and the more time goes on, the greater. Thus, the worst option would be the dismantling of a functioning system, resulting in lower pensions. We therefore stand firm against voluntaryising the second pillar. Together with the Social Democrats, we have prepared a draft on how to really improve the system. Our aim is to eliminate three bottlenecks. Firstly, we want to make the second pillar payout system more flexible. Secondly, we want to restore the taxation of second and third pillar payments in its original form. Thirdly, we want to significantly improve people's information about their pension rights and payouts. This bill stands for the interests of today's and future pensioners, so that we can pass on to the next generation a functioning pension system, not an empty pension fund, a debt burden and high taxes. None of the parties other than Isamaa asked for or received a mandate from their electorate to change the fundamentals of the Estonian pension system. On the contrary, the Reform Party, the Social Democrats and the Centre Party promised to protect the second pillar from dispersal. Let us respect our electorate's will. By handing over the bill, we bring the pensions bat to the Riigikogu Hall. We are holding this debate in an open and meaningful manner. This draft is open to all proposals that contribute to the removal of bottlenecks. We will take time to listen to experts, consider impact analyses and suggestions and then make informed choices in the Riigikogu. This is how a law is reborn that is contented, not ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U3	Thank you. There are no more requests for referrals of drafts and enquiries. I have adopted a bill on behalf of the Riigikogu's board of directors, and the board processes it in accordance with all laws. Ladies and gentlemen, presence check, please! 80 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 21. One message first. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the opening meeting of the Estonian-Island parliamentary group will take place in this Chamber, which will be convened by Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and the Law on Maritime Safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm going to ask Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U5	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I give an overview of the draft law amending the Maritime Labour Act and the Maritime Safety Act 56. It transposes two directives implementing the agreements of the social partners in maritime and fisheries work, as well as amendments to the ILO Maritime Labour Convention. The amendments to the law impose a financial guarantee obligation and additional requirements on the ship owner, or the employer. The guarantee must cover the costs of abandoning a crew member and organising his or her return home and the requirements arising from an accident at work and an occupational disease. More specifically, the transposition of directives will create more decent working and living conditions for fishing workers on board fishing vessels. Some examples are: the obligation to conclude a contract of employment at sea, the limitation of the minor's employment, the obligation for the shipowner to provide catering on board the ship, as well as the obligation to provide medical care to the injured or sick seafarer and the related costs, as well as the obligation to carry out a journey home. By transposing the 2016 amendments to the ILO Maritime Labour Convention, the procedure for issuing a Maritime Labour Certificate will change in turn. In particular, an extension of the existing maritime licence will be allowed until a new certificate is issued if, for any reason, it is not possible to issue a new certificate immediately upon expiry of the existing certificate and the ship complies with the legal requirements for the remainder of the certificate. The scope of application of the provisions of the Maritime Labour Act is also partly extended to fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length, mostly engaged in coastal fishing. Thereafter, a fishing vessel worker shall be provided with regular catering at the expense of the shipowner and medical assistance on board the vessel, where appropriate by the health care provider, as well as reimbursement of travel expenses when the fisherman is unable to perform the duties arising from the maritime contract due to his stay with the health care provider. As an employer, the shipowner is also responsible for damage to health caused by an accident at work or occupational disease on the basis and in accordance with the procedures laid down by law, and the shipowner must also pay the costs of returning the fisherman when the maritime contract ends, if the fisherman is no longer able to perform the duties arising from the maritime contract due to his stay with the health care provider or if the shipwreck has taken place. The Maritime Administration, in turn, has the obligation to verify the existence of a guarantee to compensate for the costs of organising a crew member's return home, the costs of abandonment and the claims arising from an occupational disease and an accident at work. A little about the background of what this means in the Estonian context. At the end of last year, there were 1695 fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length in the Estonian fishing register. There is no precise data on the number of workers, which concerns those fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length, but there are 2402 people engaged in commercial fishing in the Baltic Sea on the basis of a fishing licence, including only inland waters at 452. In view of the small size of such vessels, of course, fishermen may not always have an employment relationship, but sometimes also act as self-employed persons. But if we look at sailors who are residents of Estonia, the seafarers' register shows that there are 10,000 of them in the order of magnitude. The current Maritime Labour Act does not apply to work on a fishing vessel of less than 24 metres in length, which is why we have to amend these laws under the directives, because the law is not in line with European Union Directive 2017/159. Persons working under a contract of employment are subject to normal labour law regulation on fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length, but there is a need to partially extend the existing regulation to transpose the EU directive, namely those fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length. According to the current Maritime Labour Act, the employer is obliged to have a financial guarantee, such as insurance, but with the amendments to the law that we propose today, the financial guarantee will be extended, the guarantee must also cover the situation of abandoning the sailor and the reimbursement of expenses caused by the accident at work and occupational disease. At the moment, regulation requires only that the guarantee cover the costs of the sailor's return. It's kind of expanding. In this context, an accident at work is considered to be an injury to a worker's health or, in the worst case, to the death of an employee, which occurred or which occurred in the performance of the employer's duties. As a new concept, the abandonment of the Estonian legal space sailor, to which I referred earlier, comes. Abandonment is a situation where the shipowner does not cover the costs of the sailor's return or where the shipowner has left the sailor without food, accommodation and drinking water or fuel on board the ship, as well as a situation where the shipowner has unilaterally ceased his employment, including payment of two or more months' wages. All ships flying the flag of Estonia which fall within the scope of the Maritime Labour Act and which must hold a maritime service certificate are liable insurance cover covering the costs of repatriation, abandonment and damage to health and death of crew members. Ships without insurance are not flying the flag of Estonia. This means that the actual situation on the market already meets the requirements of the Directive is already in line with an acceptable law. As a result, major economic effects do not result in any changes to the law. There is also already a financial guarantee obligation for the shipowner by way of insurance. Insurance companies have already partially taken into account the provisions of the Maritime Labour Convention, which provide for reimbursement of the costs of repatriation, abandonment and damage to health and death of a crew member, as stated, and have already included references to the Convention in its contractual terms, since, as indicated, these conventions and amendments are several years ago. As of December 2018, when we look at the practice, there were 366 such cases in the joint database of the International Maritime Organisation and the ILO, involving 4866 crew members, 55 cases to be resolved, some of them more than 10 years ago. What is positive is that there was only one case in the years 2008 to 2018, or ten years, when an Estonian crew member was abandoned on a ship carrying the Estonian flag. So Estonian sailors have not been so affected yet, but taking over additional financial guarantees and legal insurance obligations also serves their interests and will ensure better protection in the future. That's the end of the review. I'd be happy to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U6	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! You briefly touched on this in your speech, but I will ask you again. Will the transposition of these two directives entail additional costs for Estonian fishing vessels that are less than 24 metres shorter than the current one? And the second question. This change applies to fishing vessels shorter than 24 metres. But is there also a "lower limit" from which these requirements of the Directive do not apply, or does it apply absolutely to all fishing vessels that comply with these requirements and which, as employers, offer work as shipowners, or is there a type of fishing vessels that are excluded from these requirements, for example, very short or small?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U8	As far as the first question is concerned, it does not entail any additional economic costs on the basis of our calculation. As indicated, these conventions date back to 2014 and 2016 and the changes resulting from the European Union directives have also been adopted in practice in the main. It's just that the sea labour law hasn't made any changes. As far as the lower limit of the length of fishing vessels is concerned, I do not know that it is limited to metres. However, there may be other restrictive circumstances that I am not going to list here in my head for the sake of the accuracy of the answer. If you're interested, I can e-mail you for a clarification. As far as I know, these other restrictions do not relate to the length of the fishing vessel.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U9	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U10	Thank you. My question concerns some of the subjects of the questioner. Does this provision of regular catering mean that a small fishing vessel must be hired as a cook? According to our law, all kinds of boats and other crafts require captain's papers from a 2,5 m boat and these are valid for up to 24 m in length. So, essentially, a small wiper or a owl that goes at sea must begin to meet all these conditions. Is that so, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U11	Thank you for your question. In particular, however, these changes concern fishing vessels, perhaps not applicable to every so-called boat. As has been said, the question is, above all, what are the employment relationships? When we talk about small boats, people who work on them often act as self-employed people, maybe they don't have such relationships. As far as all these food standards are concerned, of course there is also flexibility here. The question is that, in a sufficiently dignified manner, these conditions would be ensured that, especially on board ships which often spend days at sea and perhaps weeks at sea, there would not be a situation in which people would either have a shortage of drinking water, food, or so on. As I pointed out earlier, in the example of Estonia, we have not seen many of these situations, rather the practice has been ahead of the legislator. So there are no major changes here, so it seems that, on the basis of our feedback and also on the basis of negotiations with different parties, there are really no changes in Estonia; rather, these changes are at the level of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U12	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Let's keep going. I'm going to ask Heljo Pikhof, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The draft law 56 was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs on Monday 23 September. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister for Social Affairs briefly presented the draft to us. The main problems or changes which he pointed out were the ones he had already mentioned here: the obligation for the employer to have a financial guarantee, the introduction of decent working and living conditions for fishing workers, the introduction of a maritime labour contract, the introduction of a limitation on working underage, the obligation for the shipowner to provide catering on board the ship and to provide medical care to the injured or ill seafarer, the obligation to carry out a journey home, the procedure for issuing a maritime work certificate, and the Maritime Labour Act will apply in part to fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in length, the obligation for the shipowner to have a financial guarantee to cover the contractual requirements arising from the abandonment of the seafarer and from the accident at work and occupational disease. The target fishing vessels of the draft were in the Estonian fishing fleet register as of 2018 at 1695 and 2402 fishermen are involved in professional fishing in the Baltic Sea. As the Minister said here today, he also told us in the Commission that 366 abandonment cases had been listed in the world as of December 2018, concerning 4866 crew members and Estonians were among them. The Commission was asked to clarify whether the Maritime Labour Act provides greater social guarantees than the Employment Contracts Act. Officer Ulla Saar, who was also at a meeting of the Commission, said that the Maritime Labour Act gives the sailor stronger protection. The Minister explained that the International Labour Organisation's Maritime Labour Convention provides that the shipowner must have a financial guarantee to cover contractual claims arising from the abandonment of the seafarer and from an accident at work and occupational disease. It is also an obligation to extend the maritime licence in a situation where the certificate expires and it is not possible to issue a new certificate immediately, but the ship has passed the inspection and fulfilled the conditions necessary for obtaining the certificate. The Commission also wanted to specify how many Estonians are involved in commercial fishing on fishing vessels less than 24 metres in length in the Baltic Sea. In response, we received from the Ministry that there are around 10,000 such sailors, half of whom work abroad and half of them work in Estonia, and some of them may not work on ships or in the shore sector. There was also the question of the costs involved in implementing the law. We received a reply from the Ministry that they consider that the implementation of the law does not involve costs, because all ships that fly the sea already have a guarantee in the form of insurance contracts in the event of abandonment, an accident at work and an occupational disease. The Commission also took decisions: the decision was to put the draft on the plenary agenda by today, 8 October (this decision was adopted by consensus) and it was decided to appoint Mr Pikhof as rapporteur (this decision was also adopted by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U14	Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your report, you said that the draft provides for additional provisions for fishing vessels of less than 24 metres in part. What exactly does "part" mean? What part of what is partly laid down?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U16	This applies to fishing vessels operating 'personal fishing' rather than commercial fishing. Here's the difference, here's the partial.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U17	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. First reading of bill 56 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 22 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U18	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the draft Act 75 on the ratification of the 2014 and 2016 amendments to the International Labour Organisation Maritime Labour Convention Code initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm going to ask Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U19	Honourable Vice-President of Parliament. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft law on the ratification of the amendments to the Code of the Convention in 2014 and 2016 is very closely related to the previously presented draft 56. With the draft of 56 we introduced amendments to Estonia's domestic laws, which resulted both from directives and from two amendments to the convention. With bill 75, we will also ratify the amendments to both codes separately. The background is that the ILO Maritime Conference in Geneva in February 2006 adopted the Maritime Labour Convention, which has now been ratified by 92 ILO Member States, including Estonia. Estonia did so in February 2016. For us, the original version of the amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention entered into force in spring 2017, on 5 May. In the meantime, two changes have been made. The 2014 amendments concern, as mentioned earlier, the obligation for the shipowner to have a financial guarantee in the event of abandoning the seafarer, as well as covering contractual claims arising from an accident at work and an occupational disease. More specifically, it regulates the requirements to be met by such guarantees, when seafarers are entitled to claim benefits and how their existence is certified and verified. The 2016 amendments, as I mentioned in the previous speech, involve situations in which the maritime licence needs to be extended, but at the end of its validity it will not be possible to issue a new certificate immediately for any reason, but at the same time the ship fulfils all the conditions, has passed the inspection and, broadly speaking, there is no problem with this ship. It is simply intended to make it somewhat more flexible. I will briefly answer the previous question. There really is no "lower limit" for length. Rather, it depends on whether the ship actually operates at sea, whether the ship has a staff and is long away from shore. There are no restrictions in terms of regulation other than this 24-metre change. Thank you for your attention. I'll answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U20	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I ask Heljo Pikhof, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U21	Thank you. Good Riigikogu! The draft law 75 was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs on Monday 23 September, as was the previous draft. The Minister of Social Affairs actually presented us with both drafts together, this and the previous draft, i.e. draft 56, because they are closely linked. The draft will ratify the amendments to the Maritime Labour Code of the International Labour Organisation, adopted on 11 June 2014 and 9 June 2016 in Geneva. Decisions were also taken during the debate: it was decided to put the draft on the agenda by today, 8 October and to appoint Heljo Pikhof as rapporteur. Both decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U22	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The first reading of Bill 75 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 22 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U23	Today's third item is the first reading of the Bill 41 on Supplementing the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I would like to ask Evgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the Bill 41 initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, which aims to complete the Environmental Charges Act. The draft itself is short and simple, which, although in no way, diminishes its importance, rather the opposite. The question is quite easy to explain about itself. Indeed, most of the fees received under the Environmental Charges Act come from three companies located in Ida-Virumaa that process oil shale. That makes sense, too. Since the oil shale industry is by far the largest polluter in Estonia, most of the fees charged by the state on such activities are also due as a result of the activities of this industry. Injustice lies simply in what Erik Gamzeyev, the editor-in-chief of the North Coast, has rightly said: scum to Ida-Virumaa, money to Tallinn. That's exactly how it works. When we look at environmental pollution, we see that Ida-Viru County is undoubtedly the most polluted region. This concerns both environmental pollution and the human environment. Just recently, the paper also had a longer overview of how oil shale processing and other polluting processes in Ida-Viru County not only pollute nature but also damage people. At the same time, if we look at the revenue that the state receives as compensation for this polluting activity, we will see that EUR 0.275 per tonne of oil shale is received by the local authorities where the extraction takes place. From next year it will be a little fairer, an additional resource will go not only to those municipalities with mines, but also to those where processing takes place. However, the vast majority of this money moves to the state budget, part of it finances environmental projects through the Environmental Investment Centre, mostly in other Estonian regions (they no doubt need these investments too, there is no doubt about that), but the rest of the money, in fact, most of this money is simply received into the state budget and used to cover other budget expenditure. Let's talk about numbers. These are more detailed in the explanatory memorandum, and you can certainly get to know them. However, for example, when the total amount of environmental charges received in 2017 was 73 million euros in the state budget, 51 million of this was paid by oil shale companies operating in Ida-Virumaa, which means that 70% of all environmental charges in 2017 were paid by Ida-Viru oil shale companies. But if we look at the distribution of money, we will see that the Environmental Investment Centre supported 310 projects in Ida-Viru County from its budget in the years 2013-2018, amounting to 13 million euros, representing 6.6% of all Environmental Investment Centre projects. In the rest of Estonia, almost 5,000 environmental projects were supported during the same period, amounting to 185 million. It is true, as the representative of the Ministry of the Environment in the Commission rightly pointed out, that, for example, European Union funds have been further invested in solving more specific environmental problems in Ida-Virumaa, but the proportions are largely clear from these figures. What is our proposal? The proposal is very simple and is worded as follows: at least 25% of the environmental fees received in the state budget will be allocated to financing the Ida-Virumaa programme, in addition to the money that goes from resource charges to, for example, local authorities, 25% of the money currently entering the central pot of the state budget would go to support the development of Ida-Virumaa. We have foreseen this in such a way that this money, as enshrined in the law, could ensure stable financing for the national development programme of Ida-Virumaa, established at government level. It's a long story in itself, too. When I came into politics in 2011, there was a development programme in Ida-Virumaa. At that time, the Minister of the Interior Pomerants, led by whom this programme had been approved. It was a beautiful program for ever, but no cents of money was meant to be put into practice. Important development seminars took place in the region, discussing where to invest, what these development needs are, all of which were well recorded. Excellent! Then for three years we could ask what had been done, and in response we were given an overview by all the ministries of all the activities they do in Ida-Virumaa. Since Ida-Virumaa is part of the Republic of Estonia, of course all ministries do something in Ida-Virumaa, but there was no specific development programme. In November 2016, when the previous government started, we agreed that we could still do the Ida-Virumaa programme as it would be covered with money so that something would actually happen. So we tried to do it, we agreed, we found some funds, and then there were two things. Firstly, of course, it is possible to plan this money in this way up to a few years in advance, due to the general planning logic of the country, for example, in the national budget strategy for four years. The current government has also decided to continue the same development programme in Ida-Virumaa for four years. If I am not mistaken, it has been agreed that EUR 17 million could be put into the development of Ida-Viru County. However, this is once again a matter of annual budget negotiations, and it does not really create a stable additional financing instrument. That's the first problem. Another concern that emerged in November 2016 was that neither the central government of Estonia has a clear, analytical, thoughtful view of what should actually be done in Ida-Virumaa. It has now been sought for a few years in various agencies, mostly in the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Finance, and some ideas have been put forward. Most of them, I have dared to say for many years, are still crude, but I am glad that this is the direction to think about. Certainly, the topicality of this thinking and the expectation of the outcome of thinking are much greater, that, as a result of global and also European climate policy and climate crisis, the creation of socio-economic plans for the future is a necessity, a country's moral duty. In addition to supporting our proposal, which would give the development of Ida-Viru County fair sums of money, it is possible to support the region from other sources, but it is imperative that a well-considered and long-term plan be made. I will now respond in advance to some of the objections that sounded during the Commission's procedure and have been heard in the past. The Social Democrats have made this proposal before. In March 2017, we proposed the same at government level as the Ida-Virumaa programme was agreed. At that time, this proposal was not realised due to opposition from the Ministry of the Environment. The resistance of the Ministry of the Environment has been lasting, systemic and can be said to have been argued from their point of view. The Ministry of the Environment is concerned that if the money we are talking about goes to Ida-Virumaa on its own, then the Ministry of Finance would not give them money to compensate for it in order to carry out environmental projects elsewhere in Estonia, which is also necessary. The Ministry of Finance has not supported this proposal in the light of its broader vision that the revenue and expenditure of the budget should not be linked in order to be able to manage the budget flexibly and to agree in the annual budgeting process whether this year we will send a bit to Ida-Virumaa and whether next year we will send it to Hiiumaa. This logic can be understood, but I think that on this issue, when we are talking about a region whose developmental backwardness has been decades long and for which we have been able to do very little structurally to improve, a conceptually different approach is still needed. This conceptually different approach in our vision is that we are creating an Ida-Virumaa development programme, a regional programme with a legal own resource. This is not a question of the annual budget procedure, but the law has agreed that this amount will go to support the development of Ida-Viru County. This will allow for longer-term, larger-scale development projects to be carried out, which does not mean a single call for proposals to support investments by industrial companies, as is currently being planned, but, for example, a significant improvement in public infrastructure, it will be a health infrastructure or transport infrastructure to give additional impetus to make up for the natural or non-natural but still ongoing backwardness of the region in terms of development. It is worth stressing once again, because it has been used as a counter argument, as if we wanted to reduce the amount of money going to other Estonia from the Environmental Investment Centre budget, so that other environmental projects are less funded so that we do not see it coming. Due to the recently amended financing model of the Environmental Investment Centre, starting with the minimum level that has been written into the law, the specific resources for implementing the Environmental Investment Centre's environmental programme in the context of the state budget each year will be decided, and we do not foresee that the Environmental Investment Centre's money should be reduced. However, we do believe that some of the money that comes into the state budget as a result of oil shale mining and processing, which is otherwise good and nice in the context of the state budget, could go to where it belongs more justly, so that the claim that scum to Ida-Virumaa, money to Tallinn, wouldn't be true at all or at least less true than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U25	Thank you. You have questions too. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I myself have been involved in the Ida-Viru programme for years and years. We have applied for money there, as the waitress said, many and many times over the years, but we have still come to the point that, because of environmental problems, things are getting worse and worse. If we look at how, as a result of the closure of power plants, people in power stations will remain unemployed, people who are involved in various industries that support the operation of the power plant, and also those who are using the waste that comes from the power plant, do you think that this 25% is enough at all or is populist and we should find far more resources than this 25% and, indeed, how to say more flexibly to deal with these things? I have this feeling today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U27	Thank you! Of course, I am open and the Social Democrats as a whole are certainly open to increasing the volume of this programme. This proposal, which we have foreseen today, has just a certain history. We have also discussed this in a specific way between different ministries at government level since 2017. This 25% would give about 20 million per year of investment to the development programme of Ida-Virumaa. If we look at today's state of preparation, which the people involved in regional development in the Ministry of Finance have foreseen, that what could be done for this money, I think it could be, if it were stable, an important additional driver of development. This, of course, does not mean that it should remain the only one that, I do not know, other ministries would fail to make their planned investments in Ida-Virumaa. This would also require additional investments, for example, in the same oil shale exit costs or investments. It's obvious. The size of these investments is higher. But I also suggested in my report that, as regards the transformation of the energy sector, the transition to green energy, the making of green investments, other instruments can be used in this area. For example, in the Committee on the Environment, we can, honourable questioner, already this afternoon discuss another proposal from the Socialists, which envisages using all climate units to meet one hundred percent of the climate targets. Among other things, they can be used for the development of Ida-Viru County, there is no doubt about it. I also referred in my report to financial instruments made available by the European Commission or, more generally, by the European Union, specifically for regions based on electricity and other energy produced from fossil fuels. Coal and oil shale regions qualify for the necessary financial support, to exit polluting economic activities and to invest in environmentally friendly and also economic activities, including those promoting the regional economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U28	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am very pleased that you have started to fight to solve the problems of Ida-Viru County. But what concerns me is that you have focused, in principle, not on the problem, but only on what stands out to the people. As we know, the biggest problem in Ida-Virumaa is that the ideology of climate change causes jobs to disappear in Eesti Energia, Ahtme small block factory, etc. The reason for all of this is that we have to follow the ideology of climate change. I know you're an advocate of this ideology. But shouldn't you also think about why the US, for example, abandoned the ideology of climate change for the reason that this period has been modeled wrong, the period is too long? I think you could get much better help in Ida-Virumaa if you could clear these things up. Do you think that the Americans' position on climate change is right or wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U30	Thank you. The question does not concern the draft law supplementing the Environmental Charges Act, but I am happy to answer it. There is no American position on climate change; over 300 million people live in the United States. The vast majority of global climate scientists in Estonia and the European Union are absolutely convinced that the climate crisis (or, if you want to say 'no value', the extremely rapid global warming over the last half century) is mainly man-made and if, over the next decades, the intensity of the release of greenhouse gases into the world does not change dramatically, its consequences for the natural and human environment will be catastrophic. The fact that the President of the United States is simply whistling at this broad consensus of scientists does not in any way change its truthfulness. But now Ida-Viru County. I have been elected from Ida-Virumaa, I have been born and lived there, and I have been dealing with these issues as a politician for eight years. It was about how glad you're that I've been working on it. In fact, as a result, I may have a slightly longer perspective on seeing these problems. Both global, European and Estonian environmental policies have moved in one direction: towards more environmentally friendly, more stringent environmental requirements. Remember, in addition to killing nature, we kill people in Ida-Virumaa. If we look at the health indicators in Ida-Viru County, there's nothing to argue about. Most of Estonia's emissions of nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, carbon oxides, come from Ida-Virumaa, oil shale plants. These substances are toxic, carcinogenic by inhalation, which may even be one of the smallest problems, but they cause respiratory diseases, among other things, such as asthma, more children in Ida-Viru County have been diagnosed than others, etc. Although it must be said that human health research in Ida-Virumaa is insufficient given the acute nature or size of this problem. Oil shale is certainly part of the economic concern in Ida-Virumaa, the concern that in good times is wealth and then not again. Ida-Virumaa is exceptional in Estonia, far from being in the world. The well-being of a region dependent on world market-dependent industry is always very leaping. World oil prices fell in 2016, people were released from oil plants, the government rushed to rescue, environmental charges, resource charges, additional job creation grants were created, etc. It was only 2016. Then they said it was okay, now we can do it. Three years went by, again almost surprisingly, it was discovered that the price per unit of CO2 has exceeded EUR 20. This was, in fact, the aim of the European Union's emissions trading system, so that it would actually start working, so that it would start providing financial support for environmentally friendly investments. Suddenly, at least we have certain parties pretending like it's come as a surprise that this is going to happen. It wasn't actually a surprise, it was a long time ago known. And in the longer view, what Ida-Virumaa has suffered since 1991 is that its industry is inclined towards a very large industry and the large industry has been less flexible to cope with the situation that has been inevitable in this so-called global transformation, which has been extremely fast. For example, in 2010 Kreenholm finally closed its doors. Of course, he could have worked for a few more years, but the decision to close him down actually fell in 1991. In Vietnam, it is cheaper to produce sheets than in Europe, including Estonia. If we want Estonia to have wages at the level of the European Union (and that is what we want), it is very complex, if not impossible, from a competitive point of view. The same processes have taken place elsewhere. After all, there have been many more faster or slower reorganisations in large industries. I myself come from Aser, which was in Ida-Virumaa, now it has moved to Lääne-Virumaa in the course of the administrative reform. There was a pottery plant and it's still there. Nearly a thousand people worked there, half my family did the same. In 1991, the market collapsed, basically closed down the plant, then bought it at one point by European brick producers, set up a fully automatic Czech. Bricks are being produced in Aseri today, but there's a job in the Czech Republic, so my visual picture is probably five people at a time three or four years ago. I remember when I was a kid, when there were hundreds of people working at the same time. That's the way life is. It is not a question of starting to argue against global science in support of flat country theories, but, in fact, in this context, we need to look for sensible socio-economic solutions to the problems that exist. These solutions exist and we should actually start implementing them instead of fighting windmills.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U31	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, You skipped very smoothly over the amounts paid out of European Union subsidies. In fact, things should be viewed in a complex way. As far as I know, the European Union has made very, very large investments in Ida-Viru County. What do you think are the proportions of investments made in Ida-Virumaa and other areas of Estonia from European Union funds? Does this mean that these sums should somehow be viewed separately? Are the concerns different depending on the means used?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U33	Yeah, I get the question, I mean the answer. If I could find a table in my device, I could tell you the facts to not be wrong to say the memory, because the question is factual, not emotional. I hope I find this place. Yes, of course, European Union funds have gone to Ida-Virumaa; they have also gone quite a lot from certain funds. Here we have to consider the different reasons why this is the case. First, Ida-Virumaa is the second largest county since Harjumaa, with a very large number of people. You can say that so many European Union funds have gone there, and they have certainly gone there more than they have gone to Saaremaa, Hiiumaa and probably to Jõgevamaa. I said about it, but it's clear that the county is big. Secondly, it is clear that this is what I have also mentioned, in particular, certain environmental problems, which are specific and which have been very costly to solve. We have, in fact, used the European Union's resources to do so. If you look at the overall picture of the funds, the situation is, say, debatable. For example, one very large fund of European funds, which almost does not go to Ida-Virumaa, is the rural development plan. There's little rural land there. This is a very large amount of money in the context of Estonia as a whole; in fact, there is a great deal of support for regional development. If you look at other regional programmes, then as a percentage of the over-estonian average, more has gone there again, in some way to compensate for it. For example, labour market measures financed by European funds are more than elsewhere in Ida-Virumaa, as unemployment is twice as high as on average in Estonia. We have used the European Union's resources to provide certain labour market measures, which I do not think is very right, in fact these problems are largely our own solution. Take, for example, the work capacity reform. We will continue to finance the work capacity reform with European Union funds. This is a very, very large amount of money, and Ida-Viru County owns one decent portion of it because there are more people with reduced working capacity. Are we now saying that the Estonian state will contribute more to the development of Ida-Virumaa in proportion to the fact that we are paying a disability allowance or, rather, offering the services that are linked to the reform of working capacity there more, because there are more people in need? That is a controversial question. Undoubtedly, I do not want to say that, in order to invest in Ida-Viru County for 27 years, maybe my report left the feeling that the Estonian state has not done anything. Yes, it is. It's beyond doubt. But as we can objectively see, it has not been enough. This has not been enough to correct the inequalities that exist between regions. This inequality is generally high, but I quote the Government of the Republic's data on Ida-Virumaa: significantly lower business activity; the share of the service sector in the added value created in Ida-Virumaa is 48%; the average wage earned in Estonia in Ida-Virumaa is 80% of the Estonian average; GDP per capita is 57% of the Estonian average; the migration balance is 1 000 people per year; the inhabitants who assessed their health status as good or very good were 30% in Ida-Virumaa, the average in Estonia was 53%; the healthy lives in Ida-Virumaa are 49 on average, the lag in the Estonian average is six and a half years, etc. So the scale of the problems is much bigger there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U34	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U35	Good manager! Good waitress! This whole thing is obvious, there's no point in convincing us here. I don't really want to live in that industrial area. But that's my question. The idea is right, but I think the time you come out with it is wrong. The bastards were in the government a long time ago. Why didn't it come out if it was necessary? But now that these sources are actually drying up with all this Põxite, you start putting it with an axe at 25%, you might as well cut your finger and lose it. Why didn't you or your partymates come up with this proposal earlier? Then it would have been the right thing at the right time. Now, it seems to me, the time has passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U36	Point one, the right time for investing in Ida-Viru County is not, in my opinion, over. On the contrary, I think the acumen is increasing. In the last five years, I also think that this need has become much clearer for all people. Point two, I am certainly prepared to discuss other ways in which Ida-Virumaa development programme will receive independent budgetary money. Environmental charges have simply been here in internal logic. This is not the solution to the environmental problem, it is essentially a regional development programme, and we propose that the source of its financing be a part of environmental charges. Why are we doing this? Here is a certain internal justice, about which Erik Gamzeyev says that scum to Ida-Virumaa, money to Tallinn. It's not fair, is it? People work, create wealth for the Estonian state, mostly, for themselves a little, but mostly for the Estonian state, and in fact their health and the health of their families and their loved ones suffers and the region does not get anything back from it. That's why we did it. Point three, preventing your question, because you asked the same thing in the Commission. I repeat, I said in my report that we have made this proposal before, we also proposed it at the Government level in March 2017, when the same development programme for Ida-Viru County was developed today. We made exactly the same proposal, 25% of environmental charges for Ida-Virumaa, but this was not realised because of opposition from government partners and, in fact, in the context of the ministry. It's as simple as that. The Ministry of the Environment didn't support it. As the government now felt, we consider it very important to invest in Ida-Virumaa, let them invest, but that doesn't mean that in any way we want to put our money there, we don't put it there, let the others do it, or it's not a bad thing. I'm afraid that's the way it is. So, I guess he's a place of political agreement, and if he doesn't like it or doesn't fit in with this source of finance, then, I think, he can also discuss some other.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U37	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, I've reviewed your bill. § 551 of the Environmental Charges Act provides for the distribution of environmental charges received between the budget of the state budget and the budgets of local government units, and specifically deals with the mining rights of mineral resources, including oil shale mining rights, water-specific rights, including the regulation of water bodies in the surface water system of Tallinn, fishing rights, hunting rights and the principles of distribution of pollution charges. The draft you have submitted suggests that at least 25% of all these environmental charges received in the aforementioned state budget should be allocated to the financing of the Ida-Virumaa programme. However, the explanatory memorandum mentions most of the environmental charges paid by the oil shale sector. I support the two-handed principle of channelling more resources into the Ida-Virumaa programme, but do you not think that the wording of your proposed draft is not well thought out and rather goes against the other paragraphs of the current Environmental Charges Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U39	Thank you! No, it's thought through. We can debate whether our choice is the most sensible or not, both ways are possible. Maybe what's the question? The question is whether we are taking some percentage of the environmental charges from the so-called oil shale sector narrowly, and let us say that we will then return it to Ida-Viru County. That would require a very precise review. For example, the special water-use fee is mainly paid by oil shale companies, but it is also, of course, paid by very many other companies all over Estonia. If we just take out what they've paid, and then we take some percentage of it and we head back to Ida-Virumaa, we thought it would get awfully clumsy, and then we took the numbers in the big picture. In the big picture, the numbers are: 2017 - 73 million euros in total environmental charges, 51 million of which are environmental charges received from the oil shale industry. Instead of running the finger on which company this fee has been received, we took 25% of all charges with the so-called wider brush, which would be about EUR 20 million per year, which is more than twice as much as the oil shale industry pays its fees together. You see, we do not make the environmental charges from other companies finance Ida-Virumaa, but we are still redirecting back the same money from the 'big picture' of Ida-Virumaa. However, this is certainly not such an important issue for us that we are not prepared to consider technically different methods of calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U40	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, In fact, we know very well that the effects that the oil shale industry has are much wider and not limited to Ida-Viru County. These same emissions, which you also mentioned, sulphur and nitrogen, for example, oxides, are reaching even beyond Estonia. Not to mention the climate impact that the country as a whole needs to look at. Indeed, you rightly pointed out that social issues financed directly from the state budget need to be resolved and, in fact, are partly due to environmental impacts. How do you assess whether the current funding that goes to Ida-Virumaa is really so unfair to Ida-Virumaa as to the basic function of environmental charges, solving environmental concerns or mitigating them? Well, according to my calculations, there isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U42	Thank you! I'm very glad you asked for a second time, and now I've also found a picture to answer you. I'll make a little bit of a point first. I'm not an ecologist myself, but as far as I've read, I can tell you that the sources of pollution are generally such that particulate solids and sulphur compounds in such quantities are predominantly local. Nitrogen compounds have a slightly longer sedimentation and also a broader so-called distribution, but others are still predominantly local in terms of health effects. The climate impact in terms of greenhouse gases is, of course, not only regional and national, but even global. The Government of the Republic has calculated the percentage of Estonia's regional grants for the period 2014.2018, which funds have gone to areas without Tartu and Harjumaa. It's not my choice, they've made that choice, but it doesn't make any sense. At that point, the percentage of counties has been taken on average and the number of countries that have specifically gone to Ida-Virumaa has been broken down by different type of measure. For example, we are taking labour market measures: 5% on average went to Estonia, 32% to Ida-Virumaa, a very large part. We take housing, utilities and environment: 3.6% on average in Estonia, 2.5% in Ida-Virumaa. Roads and streets: 2% on average in Estonia, 8.2% in Ida-Virumaa. Rural development plan: 6.1% on average in Estonia, only 2.4% in Ida-Virumaa, it is very large money. Regional support measures that actually compensate for the rural development plan measures in Ida-Virumaa: 5.7% in Estonia, but 18.3% in Ida-Virumaa. More health centres have been established than elsewhere, as there are many cities: 3.8% on average in Estonia, 12.9% in Ida-Virumaa. School network: 5.5% versus 11.9%, again a large amount, many cities, it is possible to build the right number of state secondary schools. So, yes, undoubtedly, Ida-Viru County has been invested. Now let's take the same picture of the person because the county is big, as I said before. It opens up a slightly different image. For example, housing, utilities and environment: 144 euros per person in Estonia on average, only 34 euros per person in Ida-Virumaa. Roads and streets: 75 euros in Estonia on average, 112 in Ida-Virumaa. Okay. Rural development plan: 700 euros per person in Estonia, 700 euros! , in Ida-Virumaa only 87, almost ten times less. The money per person for the regional development measure: although the percentage was high, the same amount per person is on average 377 euros in Estonia and 381 euros in Ida-Virumaa. The school network received a high percentage, but 125 euros per person were received in Estonia and 93 euros in Ida-Virumaa. So if we translate these numbers back, how much is per person, then it actually turns out that we are also contributing less than it would be fair from the European Union's resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U43	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U44	Good manager! Good waitress! I come back to my previous question. I repeat, you Social Democrats have been in power for a long time, the portfolio of the Minister of Finance has been in your hands for many years and so on. Let's see how environmental charges have been shared in KIC, i.e. nearly 2 billion since 2000. If you had come up with this scheme at the time you were in power, almost half a billion euros would have gone to Ida-Viru County according to the same formula. You can figure out how many would come in 18 or 19 years. Why didn't you do it back then? You told me that 2017 was bad officials and coalition mates didn't agree to it. I ask why you didn't do it, yet half a billion would have gone to Ida-Viru County by now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U45	You ask and you answer. I told you we applied, tried, really tried, but we didn't agree. I didn't say any bad words about officials' motives or competence, they have a perfectly legitimate rational position. I just think that it would be more regional policy than monetary or environmental policy to take a view on this issue. Of course, the officials of the department have a view, and that is completely rational. We really did not agree on this with our partners. This was not the first time that we had not reached an agreement on this matter. I have noticed that EKRE representatives in particular always want to ask you, look, but what was then in 2015, who was still in power, was there a minister of education when investment in science crashed? That was yesterday's example. I honestly don't understand exactly how it goes on, the fact that it wasn't done in the past. I have explained that I tried, I failed, it was not possible, because of certain political circumstances it was not possible. But after all, it doesn't matter why they never did. There's a way to do it. We have proposed. Let's do it, let's invest in Ida-Virumaa! What we're going to do in the past is who didn't do anything for what exactly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U46	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U47	Thank you. This previous question was, of course, stupid, but stupid is also to quote similar questioners in another context. I would point out that this measure has not been supported by the Ministry of the Environment or the Ministry of Finance in any government. The Ministry of the Environment has found, in a very rational way, that environmental measures are not necessarily the most effective precisely where this damage occurs. They would like to be more flexible in their decision-making. The Ministry of Finance has always known that reasonable decisions will not be made if more and more revenue is associated with costs. Now, try rationally to answer where you can find this money, where it will take too much, and where you would like to raise it more precisely. In fact, we are talking about environmental money, but you can also give an example in other areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U48	Thank you! You paraphrased my own report. Yes, the lack of political agreement has been one party, but against this background there has been a completely rational position by the two ministries on the basis of which they do not support it. That is exactly the way I said it, which I do not think means that there cannot be a third, fully rational and protective position, which supports the same proposal, which I am putting forward here. But that is, of course, a contentious argument. If I understand correctly, the question was what additional investments should be made in Ida-Viru County. [[J. Ligi will explain.]] Wherever you go, from the state budget, where you can keep it down. We have clearly said that we do not see an opportunity and that our aim is not to reduce funding for other environmental projects, which should not come from the so-called KIC, but should come from other state budget revenues, that is to say, the environmental fee that is simply received by the state budget. Yes, the proposal is this money, contrary to the general desire of the Ministry of Finance to link it to a specific regional programme. The reason is that simply political sociological experience shows that the annual political agreements to finance the Ida-Virumaa specific programme have not been successful so far, have not given the necessary long-term certainty for the implementation of such programmes, and therefore, I would argue, there has also been no competence to seek, develop, carry out, manage these projects, etc. What should be done in Ida-Virumaa and what does today's regulation not allow? Take, for example, the resource charges received at the mining site. Nearly everything has been renovated in the area beyond the mountains or now in Alutaguse, which is possible, and more. At the same time, there are places along the way where the filth is the same, but the public infrastructure does not have the necessary level. We will take two areas that I am more familiar with in this context. First, let's take the health infrastructure. At the end of the previous government operation, we found the money to finally build the second phase of the Ida-Viru Central Hospital. It's still embarrassing what's going on. I was born in 1986 in Kohtla-Järve, but this house, frankly, looks the same as it did then. It's embarrassing. We could talk more about Narva Hospital. It's a beautiful tsar-time house, but what's going on inside is a question. The second area is education. We can say that school networking decisions have not been made here or there because of a certain passivity of local authorities, but in fact, this task is relatively massive there. These are very large cities and very large infrastructure. But also more broadly, if we look at where the state could provide some kind of support for improving the living environment, I think it is an improvement in the quality of public services, and the quality of public services is also dependent on public infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U49	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U50	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable waitress! I am very pleased that you drew attention to my mistake when I used the word 'American' instead of 'USA'. I am very grateful for that. However, I cannot agree with your argument that American scientists are all in agreement that this is a climate change issue. I have in my possession a document confirming that the US team, consisting of 300 experts and scientists led by a National Advisory Committee of 60, is wrong and wrong. In order to disprove flat ground theory, name at least one American scientist who, according to you, supports the theory of climate change. Or are you lost too?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U51	I always get very careful when someone starts telling me that he's in possession of documents. Then release the documents you have in your possession! Undoubtedly, the world is very large and the world is very rich and it is possible to find supporters for almost every position. "Doctor" has been written in the name of some of the supporters, either rightly or unwarranted. It does not always show final competence on a particular issue, and sometimes it does not at all. I'm afraid so. Science in general must operate with the best available knowledge. The best knowledge available is produced and synthesized by this same global science. With regard to the climate, it is good that this data has been made available to all of us through something such as the International Panel on Climate Change, the IPCC. Ipcc. ch is its website, you can go there, these data are public. They'll answer all your questions. And not only your questions, so many people have similar questions, how is it possible that the ice age was 10,000 years ago, and we should now go towards freezing, but the climate is warming. Yeah, there are questions. They are answered, completely scientifically answered. The IPCC Working Group on Science employs scientists in this field, climate scientists, who model the climate for the real world, this is the Physical Science Working Group, if I'm wrong, its report is available there. It is 1500 pages of very close scientific text by field. This document is also at my disposal, I can give it to you if you do this ipcc. can't find a ch page. I didn't say, 'I stress again, I didn't say that all U.S. scientists support it.' Not all U.S. scientists are going to support this work. I said that the vast majority of climate scientists in the United States, the Republic of Estonia, the European Union and also globally support the general principle or understanding as a scientific fact that the almost one-degree global warming that has taken place in the last half-century is, to a very large extent, man-made and if important steps are not taken very quickly to reduce carbon emissions, its consequences on the natural and human environment will be catastrophic. And it's that simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U52	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U53	Thank you. I must point out that your rhetoric is similar to that of the EKRE, that some officials are against something. In fact, finance ministers and environmental ministers in all governments have opposed this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U54	I think they're less authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U55	And when you answered my question, saying that this is about infrastructure, you spend half your time talking about climate change. Infrastructure and climate change do not really have such an interaction that you need to talk about it for so long. But tell me, however, how does this make sense, and why were two ministers in different governments acting illogically, that it is precisely environmental charges, and precisely Ida-Virus, that are the decisive things that are to be associated with a percentage in law and not to talk about specific projects, also other regions and sensible flexible decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U56	Thank you! I am talking about climate change because they are asking questions. I know your style of answering is a little different, and it's your freedom, isn't it? Yes, I consider ministers to be less authority than top officials in this area, that is what I really have to say. I'm sorry if it offended anyone. Once again, I consider this position to be completely rational and legitimate in the thinking room in which these views are presented. Of course, the people of the Ministry of the Environment see the need to realise environmental projects not only in Ida-Virumaa, but also in many other places, just as you said, and the mental space of the Ministry of Finance includes giving priority to the flexibility of the sources of expenditure and revenue resulting from the drawing up of the budget. Of course, it makes sense. The question is that there is a legitimate purpose. This is, in my opinion, the faster development of Ida-Virumaa, the reduction of regional disparities between Ida-Virumaa and other regions, which is a legitimate goal why this should be treated differently. The political sociological reason why this should go the other way, if it provides for a 'general principle of financial policy', is that it has simply been shown by experience that we have not reached a long-term regional investment programme of considerable size in the ordinary budgetary process, regardless of the composition of the government, in the last 27 years, which could support Ida-Virumaa in development. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U57	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Here's the question. There is not only a title but also a substantive side behind each proposal, which actually ensures its effectiveness. I read in the explanatory memorandum that the Ida-Viru programme would help the region if a single financing mechanism were found. To understand matters better, please explain the substance of the term'single funding mechanism' in the context of Ida-Viru.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U59	I can't really find that sentence here. The date of writing this draft is June 13. I counted him this morning, but I couldn't find it here. But I think it's meant to be what I was just talking about, maybe an independent means of ownership provided for in the law. We can support one particular investment, or this Ida-Viru County Development Programme can be supported in this way, so let us take this example, then it will be easier for everyone, as it is supported today. In the country's budget strategy, the government agrees that in the next four years such and such money will be spent or invested in implementing the Ida-Virumaa programme. For the next four years, it will be 17 million, and there will be some numbers in the previous government, this year so much, next year so much, etc. The next spring will come together, they'll see that, oh, you know, the money now is kind of like there are other priorities too, we'll take a little off Ida-Virumaa, we'll postpone, we'll raise next year. Could be increased, may be reduced, depends on a 'political decision'. Perhaps the next government will decide that Ida-Virumaa is not a priority for us at all; instead, we are doing a development programme in Hiiumaa, which would be undoubtedly no harm. This does not all provide such long-term stability for investment in development. The alternative is what we offer. We say in law that this programme is financed every year in accordance with the law. Then, at government level, this is not an annual 'budget negotiation' issue, but this money is, according to the law, intended to finance this programme every year. This will ensure stable financing in a much better way. Let us take a different scale, such as a sickness and unemployment fund with an independent budgetary instrument. Very big facilities. The government does not decide how much money is received by the unemployment fund, it is a rule written in the law, and that money is automatically received. In some similar way, the distribution of gambling tax has been agreed through certain areas, a certain percentage goes there, a certain percentage there and a certain percentage there. This will allow the specific area it concerns to develop more stablely by providing funding that is more independent of the political situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U60	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Environment Committee, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed this draft on 23 September. The members of the Commission were absent from Kalle Palling; everyone else was present. In addition, Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of the Environment, Kaupo Heinma, and Chief Specialist of the Environmental Management Department, Eva Suurkaev, were invited. The originator gave us a pretty thorough overview, just as I wouldn't repeat that a moment ago. Of the guests, Kaupo Heinma said that the Ministry agrees that the highest environmental charges are collected in Ida-Virumaa and that the environmental impact is greatest there and that money is needed to complete the environmental programme. The government and the Riigikogu can decide where to share the unused part of environmental fees. The Ministry does not support the idea of linking environmental charges to the Ida-Virumaa programme. More will return to Ida-Virumaa than is indicated in the draft explanatory memorandum, for example, the money will also be sent to clean up the old semi-coke and oil shale piles. The money from the state budget is also used to clean up water collected there. Can't say the money won't make it back there. It must not happen, however, that local authorities are not able to do anything about the money they have provided and that they are doing something that is neither environmentally oriented nor sustainable. Environmental charges are decreasing over time and the financing model presented in the draft is ultimately unsustainable. Members of the Commission generally agreed that investments in Ida-Viru County should in any case be increased, an important issue, but this solution is not the best one. The Ida-Virumaa programme is not an environmental programme, it is a regional programme and other money should also be directed there. The money from environmental charges could go very clearly to finance environmental projects. In consensus, it was decided to bring this bill here today for discussion in the big hall. At first, it was decided to consensually put Riho Breivel as rapporteur, but since he decided to move forward from the Committee on the Environment, I took the floor for this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U62	Thank you. You have questions. Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At the end of the previous Riigikogu, we discussed the draft Act amending the Environmental Charges Act 660. At the time, the Association of Municipalities of Ida-Virumaa had tabled an amendment to leave more funds to the municipalities of North-East Estonia where oil shale mining or processing is taking place. In the Committee on the Environment, the Socialist Rainer Vakra, the chairman of the committee, fought the most against this amendment, but ultimately the representatives of the coalition and opposition reached a certain compromise and the draft was adopted, albeit on a smaller scale than the local authorities of Ida-Viru County had requested. Today, oil shale mining volumes have fallen about twice, from 16 million tonnes per year to 8 million tonnes, so the impact of the amendment of the law will be considerably lower in the near future. Linking the funding of the Ida-Virumaa programme to the collection of environmental charges is a relatively risky activity in this context. Has the Commission been provided with an estimate of the environmental charges if the volume decrease in the oil shale sector continues?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U64	Thank you. No, no additional projections have been submitted to the Committee on the Environment. The latest data we managed to obtain from the Ministry concerns the year 2017. We do not have last year's data and this year's data, nor any predictions about the future. But nevertheless, indeed, oil shale mining volumes are decreasing. Well, at some point, they're stabilizing for a while, but environmental charges are definitely going down. As far as the effects of such large companies are concerned, I think that this is a much broader issue and an all-Estonian issue of how to motivate local authorities to have such companies on their territory and how these companies can compensate the local authorities for the consequences. But that is definitely not the question of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U65	Thank you. No further questions for you. Yes, the negotiation of the political groups. There's a wish. Peeter Ernits on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U66	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of things have not been done. Let's start, let's take a little bit of an example. The Estonian language has not been taught to the local non-Estonian community; the people of Ida-Virumaa have had to breathe in toxic fumes, figuratively speaking, and live in a polluted environment. If we had implemented this programme by Mrs Ossinovski and the Social Democrats from the start, 500 million already should have gone to Ida-Viru. But life is changing, oil shale mining and processing is shrinking, which concerns the same three companies that my colleague mentioned, which provide a large proportion of the filth. Now a quarter of these sums could be allocated to Ida-Viru County. Yeah, it's late, the trends have changed, the problem's gone, but this ax method, it seems to me, doesn't solve the situation. As Mr Ligi mentioned, different ministers have agreed at different times. Maybe back then it would've been better, right now, to me, it feels like it's the right thing, but at the wrong time. Moreover, the current government has decided that this is not wise and has decided not to support it, but it is planned to analyse how to alleviate the problems of Ida-Viru County. I note that, for example, next January, according to the government's programme of action, there is a plan to discuss how to increase the budgetary autonomy of local governments by increasing their discretion in the use of public funds, and also in January next year, proposals are being made to redirect environmental charges back to municipalities, again to mitigate the negative effects of the introduction of natural resources. All in all, the Estonian Conservative People's Party has a proposal to reject this present ax-draft, which in itself describes serious concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U67	Thank you. Do the groups still have a wish to negotiate? There's no more calls. As the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the draft Act on Supplementing Environmental Charges, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, 41 at first reading, I will put this proposal to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject the draft Act on Supplementing Environmental Charges, initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, 41 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 51 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 31 abstentions. The proposal was supported and the draft falls outside the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U68	Let's keep going. Today's fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. The rapporteur is Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U69	Thank you. So, the warm-up is done, this bill will definitely do better. Draft law amending the Citizenship Act. Let me talk briefly about the situation and the solution. The situation is that in Estonia... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In Estonia, in addition to the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, there are many people with different citizenship status. It's no surprise to anyone. In the last ten years and beyond, we have watched every year how the number of people with grey passports, people of undefined nationality, is falling. And there is a relatively rapid decline in the number of people who are predominantly aged and, unfortunately, not due to the fact that more Estonian citizenship has been chosen during the last decade, for example, but there is also a bit of it, whereas the number of citizens of the Russian Federation is beautifully stable in Estonia. Although we do not know the exact state of the situation, it is clear that Estonia's statistics, as well as Estonia's statistics, are different from the figures of the Russian Federation, which are occasionally presented in the media, it is clear that there is no downward trend here. Take, for example, two censuses: 2000 and 2011. The next one will be here soon. In 2000, Estonia had 86000 Russian Federation citizens, and in 2011 there were 90000. And so in a situation where the percentage of people born abroad has fallen dramatically. In 2000 there were 250,000 foreign-born residents in Estonia, namely 252000, and in 2011 there were 192000 born abroad. So, as a result of history, the demographic picture is moving in the 'normal' direction, which means that most people living in the country have been born here, despite the general 'internationalisation' and the openness of society. But the number of citizens of the Russian Federation in Estonia is actually increasing or at least remaining stable. What's the reason? If we look at the age structure, there are generally more older people among the citizens of the Russian Federation than there are younger people. Therefore, you would think that this issue should be resolved in the same way as the issue of people with grey passports, i.e. that the trend should be in the direction of shrinking, but it is not. And what's the reason, one of the reasons? One of the reasons is that the citizenship of the Russian Federation is restoring itself. Undefined citizenship also recovered itself. In 1996, the Citizenship Act was passed and entered into force, which was beautifully reproduced. When you were a child of a non-citizen, or a child of undetermined citizenship, you were born into an undetermined citizenship and that was the way you lived your whole life. The Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia then adopted an amendment to the Citizenship Act. Now I'm talking a little bit in my head. The year may have been 1998 or 1999 I have read these verbatim charts, a very interesting discussion since then, and we had the opportunity to obtain Estonian citizenship in a simplified manner without taking exams when the child was under 15 years old. He was supposed to file an application. It took a lot less time to re-create the gray passport. Much more Estonian citizenship was taken. Children could grow up as Estonian citizens, because when they were born, parents could apply for Estonian citizenship for them and it could be obtained without examination. However, there were some 2,000 children with grey passports left in the Republic of Estonia for the years 2013-2014, who were basically entitled to Estonian citizenship without passing the exams, but whose parents had somehow not applied to them for it, either in ignorance or for some other reason. And then we changed the law. It was a long story. By the way, this was my very first draft as a member of the Riigikogu in 2011, the bill number was 68 and it was reported here on 25 October 2011. This, of course, was not supported at the time because we were in opposition, but in 2014 we did so and the 2016 bill came into force. Since then, children of undefined citizenship will automatically become an Estonian citizen unless they give it up. As a result, we have basically stopped producing a grey passport. Now, with regard to the grey passport, we can discuss the fact that this debate is certainly being held in society, but maybe here today it is not the right place to do so because we still have tens and tens of thousands of 'older' groups, non-minor grey passports, and how to support their becoming Estonian citizens. It's a big discussion on its own. But when we talk about reproduction, what we are doing now is the reproduction of the citizenship of the Russian Federation. I think it's bad. I think that the majority of the residents of Estonia should have a link with Estonia based on Estonian citizenship, not a link based on the citizenship of another country. As a result, it is worth the effort of the state to take steps to increase the number of Estonian citizens among the residents of Estonia. That's why we have a bill of 40. According to this draft, children whose parents are not Estonian citizens, but are permanent residents of Estonia, and whose parents or ancestors have lived here as of the moment of Estonia's independence, i.e. they are already so-called indigenous here, and their child is a citizen of a third country at birth. These families would have the opportunity to obtain Estonian citizenship for their children by naturalisation without taking exams as soon as the child is born, so that the child can already grow as an Estonian citizen, because he goes here to the Estonian education system, which is compulsory, etc., and that the whole process of developing him or her will take place as an Estonian citizen. The number of children who could receive Estonian citizenship according to this draft was 8691 at the beginning of 2017, the majority of whom, i.e. almost 6000, are citizens of the Russian Federation. Upon adoption and entry into force of this draft, they would be able to obtain Estonian citizenship by simplified procedure. This number mentioned at the beginning is actually bigger because it covers all people under the age of 15 and every year they are born in Estonia by memory, the last numbers are not currently remembered by about a few hundred. But like I said, it's not a question that solves itself over time. I won't. You might even think it's the other way around. Let it be said that this bill is not really our work, we do not want to violate copyright. This is a draft developed by the Ministry of the Interior and is based on a political order, which was the coalition agreement of the previous government. That is exactly what was agreed on there, but during the work process, one coalition partner's position on this matter changed and the necessary political support was lost, which is extremely unfortunate. There is currently another draft law on citizenship, initiated by the Government of the Republic, which was before the free week on Monday, if I remember correctly here also at first reading. Apparently, it's a little confusing what's the difference between these two drafts. There's two. The first difference is the target group. We say that, when it comes to an Estonian child, our child, who is born here and whose parents or family have basically been related to Estonia since at least 1991, he or she will be able to obtain Estonian citizenship in a simplified manner without taking any exams, regardless of which country's citizens are his or her parents, unless they are Estonian citizens, because if they are Estonian citizens, then the child is already an Estonian citizen. It may be that both parents are citizens of the Russian Federation, and it may be that one is a citizen of the Russian Federation, the other being a citizen of the Republic of Belarus. It may also be that one is a citizen of the Russian Federation and the other is a parent with a grey passport. We come from the child: it is our child, it is our child, it is a third-country national, and we want this child to become our own and grow up as an Estonian citizen, also in terms of citizenship. Also, different integration studies just as a background show clearly that citizens' identity arises as a 'cause' in the sense that when you grow up as a citizen, your sense of citizenship and identity are stronger than when you grow up as a non-citizen. The government bill is very narrow. It says that a child who is a third-country national who otherwise is exactly the same as other children does not have this right if one of his parents is not accompanied by a grey passport. One parent must have a grey passport, only in this case it is possible to obtain citizenship by means of a simplified procedure. There is no meaningful, rational reason for this. It is, as has been confirmed by the respective persons in different formats, with a political agreement: that the target group would be smaller and that too many Estonian children would not become Estonian citizens for God's sake. And that's why the target group is drawn from 8,000 to a total of one and a half thousand, so is the government bill. That's the first question. So in this sense our draft is better, it provides an opportunity to speed up naturalisation and reduces the number of citizens of the Russian Federation in Estonia faster, which could be in Estonia's interest. The second difference compared to the government bill seems initially to be of a technical nature, but in fact it becomes fundamental, and it concerns double citizenship. Namely, double citizenship in Estonia is generally prohibited, we will be discussing this issue as the next item on the agenda, and this draft has also been created within this general framework that double citizenship is prohibited. By way of exception to this general rule, minors have been given the right to be in double citizenship, and this is the case since 2016 in order to solve the problems of practical life. Very reasonable. A child can, for example, become a citizen of several countries through parents or in some other way. Yes, he is a double citizen until he is 18 years old, but then, according to the law already in force, he has to decide within three years whether he wants to remain an Estonian citizen or a citizen of another country, and if he wants to remain an Estonian citizen, which I hope most of them will have to give up the citizenship of another country. That is the general rule, and that is exactly what our draft is about. We would give these children Estonian citizenship in addition to the citizenship of the Russian Federation, and then, when they become adults, they will be able to renounce the citizenship of the Russian Federation. The reason we're doing this is very simple. The Russian Federation generally does not allow minors to leave the Russian Federation, nor does it allow them to leave. He only allows them to leave with the parent for the same citizenship, but not just in isolation. We cannot influence the legislation of the Russian Federation, but I think we should be concerned that our own people can organise their lives as well and sensibly and politely and with dignity as possible. And that is why we have provided for this possibility of an exception for minors, an already existing exception for double citizenship, which will be brought into line with the general rule within three years after they have reached the age of 18. For some reason, the government's draft has introduced or entered a restriction on a particular small group to which the government wishes to grant an exception. This group of minors cannot be in double citizenship and they must give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation before becoming an Estonian citizen. This, however, is impossible for minors in today's knowledge, which practically means that the law on the amendment of the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic could simply be thrown into the trash because it does not help anyone, but simply ridicules people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U70	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U71	Thank you. If one of the parents has a grey passport in the family and has lived in Estonia before regaining independence, both your bill and the draft government bill will give the children of this family Estonian citizenship. But what do you think of this parent? He has lived in Estonia for almost 30 years, should he not have the opportunity to obtain an Estonian passport?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U72	Thank you. Well, here, there are two groups in this context. As regards the citizens of the Russian Federation, because they are citizens of another country, as adults, they have the right to determine for themselves which country they want to be citizens of. As far as persons of undefined nationality are concerned, this is an issue, as I mentioned, where a social debate outside the framework of this draft is absolutely necessary. I think that the ideas that have been proposed to resolve this issue are certainly worth discussing if they come so far at one point that we receive sufficient social support for them, which so far seems to have not been there. Guess it didn't. My position is not a secret to anyone in itself: I find it totally abnormal that in 2019 there will be tens and tens of thousands of people in Estonia who do not have citizenship, who are not citizens of any country. Totally abnormal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U73	Thank you. Siim Kiisler, next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U74	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! This bill states that if Estonia has, for example, two citizens of the Russian Federation and they have a child who, of course, is also a citizen of the Russian Federation, according to your proposal, it would receive Estonian citizenship in addition to the citizenship of the Russian Federation. And then one day this kid will be full of 18 years and, as I understand it, he'll have to make some choice in three years now if I get the idea right, you can specify. My question is, what happens if he doesn't make himself known? He has an Estonian passport in his pocket and a passport from the Russian Federation, which we are not fully aware of, I understand that we may not have this information, and now he will be full of 21 years. So what's going to happen? Will the Estonian state force itself to take away Estonian citizenship if it does not bring any proof, or what will happen on this 21st birthday and after that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U75	Thank you! No, you've understood mostly correctly. Paragraph 3 (1) of the Estonian Citizenship Act says exactly this: "A person who acquires or receives the citizenship of both Estonia and another state as a minor must give up the citizenship of either Estonia or another state for a period of three years after becoming 18 years of age. " Now, citizenship and passport are two different things, often confusing them in normal life. For example, two citizens of the Russian Federation are automatically a citizen of the Russian Federation at birth, even if they do not have any documents issued by the Russian Federation. The state of Estonia treats him as a citizen of the Russian Federation, even if he has not been to Russia in his life, has no documents, does not have any contact with that country, may not speak a word of this language for the Estonian state, he is still a citizen of the Russian Federation at birth. And that makes sense, obviously. It doesn't matter whether he has a passport when he's 21. The question is whether he has the nationality of another country or not. What, then, happens in practical life? The normal logic of our Citizenship Act as set out in § 29 of the Citizenship Act, the title of which is "Estonia's loss of citizenship by the acceptance of citizenship of another state or the abandonment of Estonian citizenship." There is also a similar content in § 28. This means that the PBGB will initiate proceedings. In three years' time, the PBGB says that please submit a paper stating that you are exempt from the nationality of another country. If this paper is not submitted, the procedure for reading Estonian citizenship as abandoned will be initiated. In short, the person who has not submitted the application shall be deemed to have renounced Estonian citizenship and shall lose Estonian citizenship. And with it, his passport will also expire.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U76	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Your bill states that a minor can apply for citizenship from his or her parent. Here's the wording. And I think you have relied on section 120 (7) of the Family Act: 'If the parent represents the child independently, the consent of the other parent is presumed. " At the same time, the first paragraph says that parents with joint custody have a common right of representation. Clearly, this is a contradiction between the two norms. However, the Civil Chamber of the Supreme Court has found in its Resolution 3-2-1-127-15 of 17 November 2015 that they consider that this provision does not result from the parent's being able to represent the child alone in the case of joint custody, as such an understanding would deprive parents of their joint custody and representation rights. The presumption contained in this provision is simply disputable. My question is whether you would like to withdraw your draft, because it is not in accordance with the law in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U78	Thank you! This discussion has been at the forefront of the Citizenship Act in the context of other drafts, and I think we will come to that at the next point. In this context, the Chancellor of Justice has said that, as the Citizenship Act says, so is, because the Citizenship Act is a constitutional law and therefore takes precedence over family law. The way in which this particular issue is resolved is not a fundamental issue for me. I understand that there have been practical circumstances when dealing with cases of citizenship that have led to the Ministry of the Interior, this is not my fictional point, but it is, as I said, the draft drafted by the Ministry of the Interior, the understanding that asking the two parents for "written consent" or "claim" is, in some cases, a point one, a burden and may also, in some cases, be against the interests of the child. Especially when the other parent lives in another country. Not only does he live in another country but he also lives in another country where he is practically unavailable. There have been cases like this. Personally, it is very difficult for me to see as in matters relating to children, both in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and in accordance with the Estonian Child Protection Act, the interests of children should be prioritised, how becoming an Estonian citizen could harm the interests of children. But I understand that in certain situations the court may interpret it that way or another elder may interpret it that way. It's hard for me to understand, but yes, maybe indeed, life is written and varied. I now refer to the debate on this issue in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I myself am not a lawyer, and in family law I do not feel too strongly about it, in principle it is dealt with in a way that one parent requests and the other parent has the right to argue against expressis verbis and it is taken into account in the sense of family law. If that objection doesn't come, it won't. Whether this is sufficient'regulatory logic' in this context or not, it is difficult for me to say. But, as I have said, this is certainly not the core issue of this draft and, in relation to the specific paragraph that says it, we are undoubtedly prepared to seek a common sense, not to argue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U79	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U80	Honourable waitress! As I understand it, you are against double citizenship in any case. This morning there was such a nice line on the radio that described how Estonians living in Finland cannot understand why they are being required to abandon one citizenship and lose ties with Estonia and why double citizenship could not be allowed in the countries of the European Union for the citizens of birth. And another example was about an American who lives and works here, who makes a lot of money as a company manager. Tell me, what in your case is the reason why you do not allow double citizenship to Estonian citizens after birth, i.e. the citizenship of our closest allies together with Estonian citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U81	This bill does not really concern this issue at all. I don't think we have... [[Someone's commenting on the floor.]] Explain? Yes, child double citizenship is indeed an issue in which I think children could be double citizens. As far as this broader debate on double citizenship is concerned, I would not want to poison this debate with the debate on double citizenship. Not 'to poison' in a bad way, but because these are two completely separate discussions, both of which are, to put it mildly, very emotional. Personally, I have certainly believed that equal treatment of individuals is an important asset and that granting different rights to different groups should not be arbitrary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U82	Thank you. Siim Kisler, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U83	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You used this saying that if you give two Russian parents Estonian citizenship to a child, he will become an Estonian citizen. Can you explain that a little bit more? If both parents are citizens of the Russian Federation and do not want to give up this status, but want to remain citizens of the Russian Federation, and now we simply, in a very simple way, give their child Estonian citizenship, then where will this Estonian citizenship take place? It probably doesn't happen in a family.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U84	For one thing, it can also happen in the family, so let us not, by external characteristics, pay the price of people's inner lives. There are Estonian citizens who do not share Estonia's value space, some of them are in prison, some are not, and there are certainly those who, even though they are not Estonian citizens, are in fact Estonian patriots and raise their children and act in full compliance with the valuable principles of Estonian society. What I referred to is the general understanding of integration scientists, according to which identity and integrational identity, or the integration and integration process in itself, arises through the process, not in the way we tend to think that one hundred different conditions must be met first and then integration begins. Actually, it's the other way around. Last time there was a lot of nonsense about how we still give citizenship to children who do not yet know the Estonian Citizenship Act or Constitution. Well, we give the babies citizenship, and if we give the babies citizenship, there is a greater likelihood that they will grow as Estonian citizens in a valuable sense and that they will have the identity of an Estonian citizen than if we do not give it to them. Doesn't that make sense? Makes perfect sense. And research confirms that not only logical but also factually true. This does not, of course, mean that other issues concerning the values of citizenship, which, in addition to the family, come largely from society at large, are not important components of the education system for young people. But what sometimes seems to be the result of an observer may also be a presumption, and what seems to be a presumption can sometimes be a consequence. This is the case in integration processes, since these are mainly issues of human communication and psychology. Let us see how the Ministry of the Interior deals with the same issue. In particular, they stress that the reason why these specific children, according to their draft, should give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation before they have the right to receive Estonian citizenship in a simplified manner is precisely because it is not requested by the child together with the parent or by the child alone, or that it is not requested by both the parent and the child, but by the parent applies only for the child, I refer to what the growth environment of the child is and whether it promotes the development of a world view that is compatible with Estonia's value area. In order to reduce the risk of a potential value conflict arising from multiple citizenship and the situation in which a child who is an Estonian citizen exercises the rights of an Estonian citizen from the perspective of the world, which is contrary to the fundamental values of Estonian society, the Ministry of the Interior requires that he/she still give up the citizenship of another country before becoming an adult. I certainly would not have the courage to think that the child's world view should be deduced from his parents. In fact, I know very few cases where the child's world view coincides with that of the parents. Sometimes it is exactly the opposite, as much as the opposite in binary terms can be said in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U85	Jürgen Ligi, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U86	Thank you. The world view of a child and a parent may be different, and I think that the expression of worldview or loyalty is quite suitable for controlling or expressing it. In this sense, I am generally sympathetic with the current organisation of citizenship. But in your answer to my first question, you said that you did not support unequal treatment of citizens. Does this mean that, from a security point of view, from a loyalty point of view, you regard it as practical and credible that we are opening the door to double citizenship for Russian citizens as well? Is that what you think is a good option for double citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U87	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U88	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Now it's the co-rapporteur's turn. Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A moment ago, Evgeni Ossinovski left this remote area, who submitted a draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 40. He enlightened it very thoroughly and very well, answering questions that led to the concrete identification of the meaning of this law. So there are certainly many answers in this regard. It is clear that this is a very ideological act and, in many ways, an ambivalent act, which seeks to change a number of principles that are currently enshrined in the law. But my aim is not to come here to hold ideological debates, but to come here as a representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to talk about what has taken place during the debate on this same bill in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Constitutional Committee held a debate on this draft on Monday 16 September 2019. Mr Kalle Grünthal, Mr Siim Kiisler, Mr Andrei Korobeinik, Mr Siret Kotka-Repinski, alternate member of the committee, Mr Oudekki Loone, Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski as alternate member of Lauri's Läänemets, Mr Valdo Randpere Hanno Pevkur and Mr Taavi Rõivas and Mr Vilja Toomast took part. Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior, assisted by Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior and Vaike Murumets, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice, and Kristi Sobak, Press Advisor to the Public Relations Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. This law was discussed, discussed thoroughly, and questions answered. And here it is quite appropriate to go over what Evgeny has already said, that this is not a completely new draft, but is based on a draft from the Ministry of the Interior from 2017. The draft figures also date back to 2017. In particular, of course, this concerns these issues: what is the category or target group to which this law is addressed, and also its numerical size, which is nearly 10,000, let us say 9800 or 9700. Mr Ossinovski explained that, according to this bill, both parents could be third-country nationals, which is absolutely clear that this is a wish to legitimise double citizenship. However, there is an important difference in principle here, because if there are citizens of both countries and double citizenship, the basic principle of our current citizenship will go against. There are, as we know, two principles of citizenship: one is the principle of blood and the other is the principle of territoriality. In the Republic of Estonia, the principle of blood applies in principle together with the principle of naturalisation. Valdo Randpere found in the committee that there was also a legal contradiction with the terminology used. Valdo Randpere pointed out that point 4 of the draft text contains a sentence: 'Under 15-year-old minor born in Estonia or moving permanently to Estonia immediately after birth with the parent... ', in which the expression 'immediately after birth' is a misunderstanding. The explanatory memorandum states that the draft concerns the application for Estonian citizenship for children under 15 years of age born in Estonia. Jevgeni Ossinovski replied that the expression 'immediately after birth' is in the text of the bill for the reason that the child is not granted Estonian citizenship solely because he or she is born in another country, although his or her parents live permanently in Estonia. For example, a child may be born early when the child's parents are travelling. Andrei Korobeinik asked that if the Russian Federation considered the child to be its own citizen, would this bill allow the child to become a double citizen? Mr Ossinovski replied that, under this draft, the child would be able to double citizenship in such a situation until the general logic of citizenship could be applied, according to which the child would have to choose within three years of age. This actually means that double citizenship is guaranteed for at least six years: from the age of 15 to the age of 18, plus another three years. Andrei Korobeinik then asked, "If this person does not make a choice, what is the reaction of the Government of the Republic? ' Mr Ossinovski did not respond to this very specifically, but Vaike Murumets, representative of the Ministry of Justice, said that the state had not imposed sanctions for this situation. After the discussion, it was proposed that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 8 October, a decision adopted by consensus. Ossinovsky was appointed rapporteur and Paul Puustusmaa co-rapporteur, and the decision to close the first reading was taken by a majority. There was four votes for, three against and two abstentions. In addition, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs received the opinion of the Government of the Republic on this matter. The Government of the Republic has expressed the view that, in this form, they do not support the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U90	Thank you. Jevgeni Ossinovski, question to the co-rapporteur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U91	Thank you! I don't exactly remember your formulation, I didn't remember it, so if I'm doing too much, if you'll excuse me, but you said at first, like, that the purpose of the bill is to legitimise double citizenship. In my presentation, I spoke at length about the fact that the draft does not change any of the provisions on double citizenship in force today, but is based on the current general regulation of double citizenship, according to which double citizenship is not allowed in Estonia. By way of exception, only minors can have double citizenship or multiple nationality until the age of 18, after which they have to choose within three years. Can you confirm that this is the case and that this draft does not extend or touch at all on the regulation of double citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U92	I can't accept that. When we were in the Commission and were arguing about the principle of citizenship, whether double citizenship would occur or not, we even came to the conclusion that, in theory, multi-citizenship could arise in this situation, not only in terms of two, three, but also in theory in terms of 16 citizenships. Okay, this possibility is profoundly theoretical, but it still exists. And if we also take the exception that the same 15-year-old person will inevitably receive another citizenship until he reaches adulthood, after which he will have three years to think about whether or not he will give up on it, this situation will in any case legitimise double citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U93	Thank you. Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U94	Question two. I didn't have time to review the protocol, but you said somehow that I didn't answer the question specifically: what happens if no choice is made? I may have answered from my own memory, but maybe not. However, I do remember that Mrs Annus explained the general regulation, which will happen if a person who has obtained citizenship under this bill, as well as any other minor with a double nationality, becomes an adult and does not give up citizenship in another country within three years. And that's what I was talking about today in detail in my report. According to sections 28 and 29 of the Citizenship Act, Estonian citizenship is simply taken away from him and that is it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U95	I mean, to be clear, that was your answer. When Andrei Korobeinik asked that, if a person does not make a choice, what is the reaction of the Government of the Republic, you replied that the general regulation of double citizenship does not concern this draft and that this draft is based on the law currently in force and that the discussion, whether or not Estonia permits double citizenship, will continue at the next meeting of the Commission. So this was at the debate on the Reform Party bill. Yes, a representative of the ministries gave an answer, but that was the answer. You see, there is now the same basic principle that whether a person has, say, Estonian citizenship received in one way or the other or not, because Estonian citizenship at birth cannot, in principle, be taken away anyway. The question was now that if a person is granted citizenship in another country and if, for a certain period of time, within three years, he does not report this withdrawal, what is the reaction of the country. Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Private Law of the Ministry of Justice. oi, I apologise, Ruth Annus is Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, said that the Constitution provides that citizenship acquired by birth cannot be taken away from anyone, which means that if a person does not comply with the requirement laid down in the Citizenship Act, according to which an Estonian citizen may not at the same time be a citizen of another state, the state basically tolerates double citizenship. Ruth Annus said that the Constitution and the Citizenship Act are not incompatible, however, since the Supreme Court has found that the Citizenship Act is a level that regulates whether or not to permit double citizenship. Estonian citizens who are born may not in themselves be nationals of another country according to the Citizenship Act, but the state simply has not imposed a sanction against it. So there's actually a place where politicians should look in the mirror and think about what to do next, because the situation is actually, let's say, a little strange.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U96	Thank you, there are no further questions for the co-rapporteur. Now is the time to open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will be able to speak in the negotiations if they so wish. Siim Kisler has first expressed his wish in the name of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur who initiated the draft. The nature of the problem had been explained very well and you described these choices very well before us. And it is good that you did so in comparison with the other draft laws amending the Citizenship Act, which we are currently in the process. The choices we are facing came out very clearly. As the waitress described beautifully, there are two aspects in this big picture, especially when compared to other drafts. One concerns the target group to which Estonian citizenship is to be granted under the simplified procedure. As the waitress said, it is a matter of political choice. The choice for the Fatherland is simple: we are trying to keep these target groups as small as possible, in reasonable size, so that the current principles of citizenship are respected and the situation is under control. I would stress that this is a situation in which we are talking about granting citizenship under a simplified procedure. In the context of naturalisation, it is very reasonable for foreign citizens to acquire Estonian citizenship in comparison with similar regulations in other European Union countries. Everyone always has this opportunity, and generally there is no need to give any major exceptional advantages; people follow the general procedure. The second aspect, which was also handled nicely by the initiator's rapporteur, is, as he nicely said, a seemingly technical but very fundamental question that, from what point in time, Estonian citizenship will be given to a person under a simplified procedure. And as the rapporteur put it, the citizen of the Russian Federation, for example, will be given Estonian citizenship. It is now a very important choice whether or not we want to change our current citizenship policy principles. This draft provides for the granting of Estonian citizenship in addition to the existing citizenship, creating a number of double citizens, such as citizens whose parents are citizens of the Russian Federation and who themselves are citizens of the Russian Federation, but who at the age of 19 exercise the rights of Estonian citizens, participate in referendums, parliamentary elections, etc. This change in the principles of citizenship policy The Fatherland certainly does not want to change, and that is why the Proposal of the Proposal for Amendment of the Law on Citizenship is proposed by the Proposal of the Proposal for Amendment of the Law on Citizenship 40. I'm handing over this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U98	Thank you. Mr Ossinovski, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U99	Thank you. I am not using this time to express a political position, as it has probably already been made clear enough, both with the initiation of this draft and with my first speech and answers to questions. I'm just gonna sort out a few things. My colleague Kiisler said that, from the perspective of the Fatherland, those target groups who are granted Estonian citizenship on special grounds should be as small as possible. It is indeed a matter of political choice. It is also a question of what is the objective. And it is indeed political, perhaps weather-friendly, and it can have a certain understanding of who is a citizen's society. I expressed my position from the beginning: I believe that it is in the interests of Estonia if the majority of the permanent residents of Estonia have a link with the Republic of Estonia based on Estonian citizenship and not a link based on the citizenship of other countries. Since there are mostly 90000 citizens of the Russian Federation as an alternative, as a practical alternative, I think that becoming an Estonian citizen would not only be in the interests of these people, but it would also be in the interests of the Estonian state to be Estonian citizens. But as I said, it's a weather option. Now what I wanted to clear up is a rather incomprehensible messing up on the issue of double citizenship on the part of the Commission. Everything got mixed up in there. The penalty for disqualification from birth was indeed discussed at the same session in the context of the second draft. This question really arose that double citizenship is also prohibited in the case of birth citizens, according to Estonian law, but the Constitution prohibits them from taking it away, as if it were a violation of the law, but there is no sanction against this violation. This is a very broad subject in its own right, which we are about to discuss. But this is nothing to do with this bill, because the citizenship we are talking about here is naturalisation citizenship. And when we talk about what happens when a child, or no longer a child, turns 18, but an adult who, as a child, acquired Estonian citizenship and who also holds the citizenship of the Russian Federation, does not bring proof to the PBA that he has been released from the citizenship of the Russian Federation in three years' time, what becomes of him is very simple and in today's law not only written but also implemented in everyday practice: he is deprived of Estonian citizenship. Period. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U100	Thank you. There are no more requests to speak on behalf of the political groups. We now have on this table the Commission's proposal to continue to deal with this draft law and the proposal of the Isamaa Group to reject this draft law. Let's put them to the vote. We are voting on the proposal of the Fatherland Group to reject this draft law from the procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Fatherland Group to reject the draft law amending the Citizenship Act 40. Please take a stand and vote. Honourable Riigikogu, 74 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of excluding the draft from the procedure and 9 against, 15 members did not participate in the vote. The bill fell out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U101	Let's get to the next item on the agenda and that is... [[It's ringing a bell, there's talk in the hall.]] May I have your attention, please? The fifth item, the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, is to be discussed. Valdo Randpere, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U102	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, A few speeches back on the previous item, the Commission's rapporteur, Paul Puustusmaa, concluded his presentation by saying that the situation is strange and politicians should do something. That's one of the few times I agree with the EKRE. And I'm offering you a very good way to deal with this strange situation here in the next few minutes. I am not here before you for the first time today with a single draft which reflects the existing situation in Estonia and elsewhere in the world and which requires our intervention for a number of different reasons. One reason is, to which Paul Puustusmaa also referred, that we have a contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act: the Constitution does not allow birth citizenship to be taken away from anyone, while the Citizenship Act says that a person should choose if he or she has two citizenships and that he or she should make a choice after he or she turns 18. In fact, the law also says that a person should give up or could also give up his or her Estonian citizenship at birth. That is one contradiction that we would like to eliminate. If there is a contradiction between the Constitution and the law below, then any legal theory, as well as an expert opinion, says that the sensible approach is to amend the law below rather than go prying the Constitution. Another common legal concept is that legislation must reflect real life. When real life changes, legislation should also change, adjust, monitor what is happening in the world. The current Estonian Citizenship Act has been in force for decades. And if, at the beginning, it was quite reasonable and quite appropriate to the state in which Estonia was, which we came from, which we had reached, then today, this law is a little bit, let's say, obsolete at some points. This was actually referred to during the discussion of a similar draft during the previous Riigikogu. Since I do not only want to oppress my authority, I will bring in one of the most authoritative persons: Jüri Adams, member of the Free Party, one of the founders of the Constitution, one of the foundations of Estonian legislation after regaining independence. He also referred very clearly to the fact that the Citizenship Act has actually become obsolete and would have needed to be amended ten years ago, clearly after Estonia joined the European Union, clearly after about 100000 people have left Estonia abroad. And here it ends, frankly, I'm afraid it ends with my joint EKRE. If the representative of EKRE says here that the situation is strange and I agree with it, then the whole assessment goes through that this situation should be resolved by imposing some kind of sanctions on someone who, however, dares not give up his or her Estonian citizenship at birth, even if he or she has a different nationality. There are opportunities for this second citizenship, I do not say, an endless number, but life offers a wide variety of opportunities and we cannot foresee them all. I am haunted by the idea that we came from one society, since Estonia had not yet regained independence, where the foreign country was bad, thinking about the foreign country was bad, going abroad was suspicious, and returning from abroad was betrayal of the homeland. The first paragraph of the Special Part of the Estonian SSR Criminal Code was § 62, which concerned the betrayal of the homeland, one of which was the non-return from abroad. We currently have a minister in the government who announced a few years ago that Estonians who went abroad are refugees of convenience. What bothers me is that we're still obsessed with the thought and influence of such a period of conspiracy. From some point on, we have fought for the right to leave Estonia and come back here, but nevertheless we would like to look a little bit at those who have left. And actually, by not changing our laws and not modernising them, we cut off many people's desire, opportunity, motivation to return here. I've been to a lot of schools talking to students who have now reached upper secondary school and have never seen Soviet power. They have no idea of the conditions under which many of us grew up. And how wrong and how bad and how strange the idea was, in fact, that Estonia should not go anywhere. They've never seen it. I always told them to go abroad. Everybody go if you want, but come back. Come back after a while and enrich Estonia by learning something, seeing something different, learning something different, learning to do something different than we may have done here in Estonia. Bring this knowledge and skill and ruined it back and help Estonia with it. And that's the question that I'm proposing to solve. We give them motivation, give these people the feeling that they are welcome back to Estonia even if they are perhaps born abroad. Let them maintain their roots and ties with Estonia through Estonian citizenship. Let them come back here someday and find out that the creepy little country here I want to live, here I want to raise my kids, here I want to bet and promote life here. There is a bill before you that would give Estonian citizens after birth the opportunity not to stand up to the choice of giving up the second citizenship that they have received for various reasons. For practical reasons, many have almost been forced to take another citizenship to make life a little easier. Many have been born or born abroad as children of foreign citizens or parents of one foreign citizen, and through this they have acquired another citizenship. Our proposal is rather than discussing how to punish them or how to continue this situation, to think about how to legitimise the possibility that would allow them to have a second nationality if this second citizenship was created in a country with which we actually have completely similar values. I know there's going to be arguments against it. On the left-hand side of the hall, as I look at it, people will talk and it has already been said that all people must be treated equally and that the citizens of birth are not special persons and that people who have received naturalisation must be treated in the same way in this case. If double citizenship were meant for everyone and applied to all countries, then that could be the case. However, since I do not share this view and in order to receive support from the right side of the hall once again from my perspective, we have shaped our draft in such a way that the possibility of maintaining multi-citizenship would only be for those people who have acquired second citizenship from a country that is either a member of the European Union, a European economic community in general, or one of those countries where there is a large Estonian community and who really share our values with us, these are the United States, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Brazil. As has been said, in addition to the European Union, Norway and Switzerland. And now, as you noted from the right side of the hall, there is no mention here of one country that has created a mismatch between the two sides of the halls, arguments are beginning to come up against the fact that no, that citizenship still means loyalty, multi-citizenship means either disloyalty or a conflict of loyalty in the bud, before you start to broadcast these words very loudly, name me from this list one of the countries we have put into this bill and for whom you find that this country is hostile to us, or for whom you find loyalty to this country means disloyalty to Estonia, it is the United States of America or Norway or Finland or Sweden. Name it! And if you can't call it, don't mention it. If we look around a little bit among our neighbours, we look around the world at what has happened, then very many countries have gone down this road, countries that previously did not recognise the right to multi-citizenship, that they have come to recognise it in recent years. Finland has done so from our neighbours, Sweden has done so, Latvia has done so. In fact, Latvia has set an example for us in shaping this bill. In Latvia, I think a similar law has been in force since 2013, I might be wrong, maybe it was 2014. He's pretty much the same as ours. There is a list of countries for which we consider that there is no conflict if the Estonian citizen of birth has citizenship in that country as well. The Latvian law also provides for the possibility of concluding separate agreements with countries, should this interest exist. In Latvia no bilateral agreements have been concluded during these years, but in Latvia this law works without any problem. Then why wouldn't he work here? Finland has promised double citizenship since 2003, and Sweden has also introduced this possibility somewhere in the early century. In addition to eliminating the contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act in the event of this draft being turned into a law, we will also give the citizens of birth who have renounced their citizenship the opportunity to restore this citizenship by a simplified procedure. In addition, as if there were only a few of this, although there is already a great deal, let us be honest, this is one of the best drafts you have heard and seen during this Riigikogu membership, in addition, this bill solves the problem of the Estonians of Abkhazia. We have seen in recent years, especially before the elections, how the different political forces, mainly those who have managed to hold the ministerial post, have panicked when the sad stories of the people of Abkhazia, the Estonian citizens of birth, have suddenly discovered that they have been deprived of their citizenship at birth. It never happened, no passport, it's okay, no one knows. Now, just before the elections, a new solution was created. In order to calm people a little bit, a two-year passport system was created, which is completely absurd. Absolutely absurd! Instead of messing around and messing with some weird little solutions that are not in accordance with the law, take our draft, make it a law, and the problem of the Estonians after Abkhazian birth will be solved. Finally, before... Oh, there are even some questions! Okay, finally, before going to answer the questions, a few more words from the government's point of view, which is particularly stimulating reading. We presented this draft for the first time in a similar form a few years ago, a few years ago, when Andres Anvelt was the Minister of the Interior. Since he was not himself at work, the government's position was written by Indrek Saar in his place. Both nice people. But the government's position does not reflect their glory, but rather their tendency towards class struggle. The government's position stands more or less verbatim, I will not even bother to read, I can tell you that, if this bill becomes a law, it will create enormous tensions between the crowds in Estonia and can lead to riots and riots. Hallelujah! The scary part of this is that the same government position written by Indrek Island has survived our entire bill. Our bill has changed, but the government's position has not changed. And now that the government's position as Minister of the Interior is presented by Mart Helme, he has made a copy and paste from this earlier government perspective. There is still a danger and a warning that, if this bill becomes a law, the masses will be on the streets. There's a proverb in English that's a little uncensored, so I'm not gonna say it straight. Same shit on different days, let's say that in Estonian. But basically, it's a little surprising that the left side of the hall and the right side of the hall can copy each other so well. And I guess in his life, what's a copy, this paste, if you go back to English. By that, I have said more or less everything I wanted to say. If anyone has any questions, please, shoot!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U103	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. By time, we can take exactly one question, and then the hearing is over. So Siim Kisler gets a chance to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U104	Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity. Honourable waitress! According to you, there is a contradiction between the Constitution and the Estonian Citizenship Act. I do not agree with that view. But my question is that if you claim that this bill will sort of eliminate this contradiction, how is that possible in a situation where you count only some of the countries of the world for which this conflict will be resolved for citizens, but for a large part of the population, this conflict will not be resolved for the majority of the population. How do you explain that? The contradiction remains, so your argument is wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U105	Thank you. Good question. Now I happen to be a lawyer, and I can explain to you, good Siim Valmar Kiisler, that the current contradiction is precisely about the citizens of birth. The Constitution does not allow them to be deprived of their nationality, but the Citizenship Act forces everyone to make choices regardless of whether citizenship is obtained by naturalisation or birth. According to our bill, the citizen of birth will no longer have to make this choice if he or she has multiple citizenship in relation to the countries given on this list.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U106	Thank you, honourable members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U107	Doesn't anyone want to extend the hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-08_U108	No, I don't. The proposal to extend the sitting has not been received and it is a little late to request it. So the time for the sitting is over and the debate will continue tomorrow according to our timetable. [[???Valdo Randpere: 'Oleks seda teadnud, oleks ise pikendanud.'???]] Closure of the sitting at 12.59 p.m.
