ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Let's start today's briefing and do the presence check first. 46 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; 55 members are absent. Let's go to Question Time tonight. Today, participating... Is it a procedural question? Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U2	Yeah, a procedural question. Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! We have debated here once this autumn season and debated the order of questioning in Question Time. That was when Kersti Sarapuu first asked the Prime Minister. At that time, the President of the Riigikogu justified Kersti Sarapuu's placement as the first questioner by being the chairman of the political group. And indeed, our rules of procedure and our rules of procedure provide that the leaders of the political groups can be the first to ask. I now have a question because I see that the leader of our group has been placed in fourth place this time. How are we going to put the group presidents here once, once this autumn season?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U3	The way in which the Bureau draws up the order in which questions are answered is, in fact, a more complex combination. On the one hand, it is considered that the Prime Minister would be among the first possible response, that the group chairmen would be among the questioners, and also that the various political groups that have asked the question would take turns ahead in order. Last time the Social Democrats were the first questioners, now a representative of the Reform Party has been put in place. That is also what we have considered. So it's a more complicated combination that means a time series. We will take into account the order of the questions that have been asked last time. That's how it's gonna be. So it's not like they wanted to hurt anyone here. And when I look at the order in which questions are asked, I believe that the third, fourth and fifth questions will certainly be discussed today. Please, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U4	Yes, they will, but since we have had this issue before, and we have discussed it here among ourselves, I note that Ivari Padar, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group, and the Chairman of the Group are in second place behind him. It's not that he's like that, but it might be in the house. If we had a bigger debate a month ago about how Kersti Sarapuu, Chairman of the Centre Party Group, was the first questioner, then just for the sake of clarity, this order could be a little more precise.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U5	Well, I'll explain. Now it's going to be Question Time, so the questions are for me, but I'm happy to answer and try to explain to you that it will be understandable in the future. If we had now put Indrek Saare as the next questioner, the first two questions would have come straight to the Prime Minister, because both have been submitted to the same person. That is also possible, but we have tried to disperse so that there are no questions in succession for one minister and then for another. It's better if we take turns answering. But we can still discuss this format, maybe we can fix it, but I think it's pretty balanced. Let's see if the next time we can get the questioners in line like this, everybody's happy. Let's hope there's a moment like this. But let's get to Question Time! Yes, more, please, procedural questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U6	Good manager! My question is, why are we wasting human resources? I see the Secretary of Defense is sitting in front of us, but no one's asking him anything. Isn't it procedurally possible that if there are no questions, you just don't have to stay here? Although it's interesting to listen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U7	It is the free will of the delegates that the three members of the government take turns before the Riigikogu. We never know who and how many questions the ambassadors want to ask. The practice has developed over the years so that, regardless of whether there are specific questions to one minister or another, they will still attend Question Time once it has been announced. So they have the opportunity and the pleasure to attend Question Time as an listener, which certainly does not run the Minister along the side. But, of course, it would be good for all ministers to have questions. The Board of the Riigikogu has repeatedly called on the representatives of the political groups to ask questions to all ministers whenever possible. It is a matter of the rules of procedure, perhaps we must come back to it. Who remembers that it used to be the case that the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible for Prime Minister's duties did not attend Question Time every time, there were three members of the government. And when the Prime Minister came after a certain break, he replied. The rules of procedure, however, were changed so that the Prime Minister would come here every week. And as a result, there has actually been some kind of disproportion. It is always the Prime Minister who has the greatest interest in asking questions, and other ministers with their own issues remain in the background. The format and proportions of the entire Question Time changed from that moment on. So we can discuss the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Act, whether to go back to the previous regime or not, but that is the case now. My message and my request continue to be that, whenever possible, we should ask all ministers questions. After all, the political groups, particularly the opposition groups, can discuss with each other who they are asking and how many questions they are asking. And if you can see that one minister is left with no questions, you can ask him. But, well, it doesn't have to be artificial either, it's free will. That's how it is today. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U8	Thank you. A brief comment that I received from one of your colleagues was a very cocky response. But you started by saying that the first argument is that the Prime Minister would answer at the beginning. If it were possible, the board could be guided by the priorities of the Riigikogu and rather look at the questioners next time, so that the group chairmen are ahead and the rest are really scattered, but not in the way that the comments sound again that the Prime Minister answers first. It is, however, a Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U9	I do not think that the Bureau is now taking this decision, or is not assuming this responsibility, that it is going to define which issues are important and which are not. But it is the custom of the people's wishes, it has been Parliament's wish that the Prime Minister be here every week. It also makes sense that the prime minister is the greatest interest in the questioners, and it makes sense that he is the first to be asked the question. But let's get to Question Time. Today's Question Hour is attended by the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme in the role of Prime Minister, Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, and Jüri Luik, Minister of Defence. I would remind you that each member of the Riigikogu has up to two minutes to ask a question and the minister has up to three minutes to reply. The questioner will also have the opportunity to ask a more specific question and another member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask a question to the minister on the same subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U10	So let's get to the first question. The questioner is Yoko Alender, the question is the role of the Prime Minister of Home Affairs, Mart Helmele, and the subject is human rights. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U11	Thank you, good manager. Mart Helme, the Prime Minister's role! As early as 2015, many countries in the world agreed sustainable development goals under the roof of the United Nations. We are talking about instruments that we can actually ensure that we can at all defend people's rights, including children's rights, the rights of future adults. Estonia also recently, together with most European countries, stated that by 2050 we will have to achieve carbon neutrality, otherwise simply because of the climate, we will no longer be able to defend human rights. We recently visited Finland with the Chairman of the Environment Committee. We listened to the last opinions of scientists under the Finnish Presidency. Scientists say that we have actually acted unsuccessfully over the last ten years, the climate continues to warm. And the picture that was painted to us from the next century, concerning our children and grandchildren, includes wars, poverty, huge epidemics and extraordinary weather conditions. All of this also leads to a large population migration. And, of course, it's coming north of the south. Do you think that Estonia has done enough, has Europe done enough, has the world done enough to protect our planet so that we can guarantee our children their human rights in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U12	Thank you for your question. What do you mean enough? If it is to be used, there must be a criterion for deciding that enough has now been done, which has now been done inadequately. I haven't seen anyone define this criterion anywhere. Therefore, the question of whether we have done enough is ambivalent. Now the question is whether Estonia has done in a way that is perhaps the right question. I think that Estonia has tried to do its best to ensure that the climate environment does not damage our people within the borders of our country, within the limits of our administration, in the best possible environment, so that we have clean water, so that we have clean air, so that we have clean food, all these very important things. I think that all the governments of the Estonian state, not just this government, have worked for this. As far as the science scenarios are concerned, I recently read an interesting article that was predicted in the 1970s that by the end of the 1980s the world would face a global famine. Instead of climate warming, it was predicted that there would be a new ice age, that the climate, on the contrary, would cool down, that glaciers would come down from the mountains, etc. You know, we shouldn't scare each other, including in this Chamber, with disaster scenarios that have not yet been proven or fulfilled. So the answer to your question is that guaranteeing human rights is certainly partly linked to weather, but Estonia cannot be responsible for the waste management of all countries, nations, regions, continents, for example. I think that there is a relatively good level of waste management in Estonia, which is certainly not an issue, for example, in many African countries and many Asian countries. We can set an example, we can be known-howers and such things to do within our own resource limits. When I look at these extremely informatively formulated issues, I see that there will be a whole series of questions about pensions, about the budget, about the labour force, about these very informative issues, which are very easy to prepare when coming to this hall. If we also focus on these issues, we can see that we have a very clear resource limit ahead. That means we can't save the whole planet. We start with ourselves and with ourselves, among other things, about the relation of weather, environment and people to human rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U13	Yoko Alender, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U14	To inform you, good Mart Helme, I assure you these criteria are absolutely in place. I suggest you look at, for example, the head of the World Meteorological Organization, the Finnish professor. He gave us a very good lecture at this very Presidency event. Warming below 1.5 degrees is what we need to achieve to avoid cataphasic weather changes that will bring along all the things I mentioned earlier. But really, as you also said, everything starts with us, and that's what I absolutely agree with. And I think, of course, Estonia must also take this responsibility. As we know, 70% of CO2 emissions in Estonia are still related to the use of oil shale. I am asking, in view of next year's budget and plans for the future, what is the strategy for exiting oil shale energy and how much funds will be earmarked for this in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U15	Well, thank you for giving me suggestions! If you had formalised your question in such a way that it was human rights related to climate change, I might have even read the recommendations you have given me here. But since you have formulated the subject so laconically about human rights, it was very difficult for me to prepare myself to respond in this Chamber, with all the articles, books and treatments on human rights and climate issues in mind. So pray to you: at other times, put your questions in such a way that they can be answered more informatively. As far as your 'continuation' question is concerned, there is no doubt, after all, that mankind's common task is to resist climate change as far as possible through human activity. It is necessary to resist environmental pollution to the extent that it can be achieved through human capabilities and technology. There is absolutely no objection to this, so in that sense, your a little blaming and attacking tone is not appropriate. It would be appropriate to ask how Estonia could serve as an example, a 'press' group, so that the Third World countries too, particularly Africa and Asia, where, I dare say, virtually no attention is paid in most countries, and our efforts also follow. Of course, Estonia is, obviously, the world's leading and decisive power, we are the ones who are pushing for global warming, and we are also those who are able to take down one and a half degrees of global warming, ironically speaking. But actually, we only have one chance: to set an example, to be an agitator, to be a pressure group. The rainforests of our world, the depths of the ocean, and the openings of space cannot be significantly influenced. We can only do something by example.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U16	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I heard from one of your responses such an emphasis that Estonia must take care of its own people, try to preserve this precious environment, make it better. On the other hand, we have noticed that on certain issues concerning cooperation with other countries, both you and your party have been very repulsive and have clearly given the impression that we are actually the world's great and that we are not interested in foreign trade and climate issues at all. Your Minister for the Environment has a slightly different view. But it kind of scares me that story about that article you were talking about in the '80s about famine. After all, we must admit that famine has not disappeared from the world; it has become more widespread. Just because we're doing really well here doesn't mean there's no hunger anywhere else in the corner of the world. And here's my question. If we want to stand up for our people in this small country and provide them with the best living environment, then I think it is essential to cooperate with other countries, including those countries where things are not so well. Are you, along with other representatives of your party in the government, able to cooperate with other countries? Some of your ministers don't even want to go abroad, and if they do, they'll meet our countrymen. Please comment on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U18	Well, I don't know, they're such journalistic rumours, I dare say, incriminating, accusations. I got back from Luxembourg at one o'clock tonight, I would not say that I am not cooperating or communicating with other countries. I know Martin Helme is on his way to Luxembourg now, and next week he will be in the United States. I don't understand what this is all about, that we're not willing to cooperate with anyone. We are ready to work together and we are. But not co-operation on an equal footing and cooperation on a substantive basis. Our Minister for Rural Affairs, Mart Järvik, has made several visits to develop relations in a very large and very important market, namely the Chinese market. He has already signed preliminary agreements to export Estonian agricultural products to China. I think this is a very important and very big step forward. I can also give examples of other areas of ministerial activity. Some kind of talk about us not going out there, it's all journalistic slander. Why the press slanders us is to ask the journalists who do it. For example, on the weekend, I read a great story about a journalist fired from a Postman. It was published in Delfi under the name of the Estonian Daily Paper and clearly said that Mart Helme is a fool, Martin Helme is a fool, Moonika Helme is a fool, and Evelin Ilves is also a fool. Such an excellent article was published by Taavi Minniku from the sulest in no thank you! I don't think I'm stupid, and I don't think Martin is stupid, and I know my husband isn't stupid either, and I never thought Evelin Ilves was stupid. But if you base this article and believe what it says, then it is that you have now asked a very stupid person a question, a wise question that this stupid person cannot answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U19	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U20	Let us move on to the second question. The questioner is Ivari Padar, the answer is Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, the topic is regional jobs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U21	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Riigikogu's guidance for the confidence that I have placed the number in two today. And second: Mr Minister, now four years ago, administrative-territorial reform and the restructuring of rural governments began. The issues arose as to what could be a levelling mechanism in a situation where, I remember, there were 700 fewer jobs in the regions. And then the government came up with a regional job plan. As I recall, the first stage was 2017.2019, heading 'A Thousand Jobs'. Now the year 2019 is running, and I know, but you have not found any data yet, you can certainly send them to me, that the government has a new plan for the next few years and for regional jobs. Would you first give us an overview of what has become of this previous plan and what are the future prospects?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for this very substantive and topical question. This is the subject we have already discussed in the government office in this new government. As you pointed out, the previous initial plan was approved in spring 2017. So it's been two and a half years. The latest figures are aggregated in August, as the processes initiated do not actually end with the end of one government or the election of the Riigikogu, they continue. To date, the total number is 1037 jobs in different regions. Indeed, the signs of danger were both the abolition of rural governments and the reform of local governments, which could have reduced jobs in the regions. It certainly had to be alleviated by some measure. We weren't very smart at the start of this process, now we've gotten a lot smarter. During this process, certain whole units have moved out of Tallinn, such as the private forest centre, the People's Culture Centre, the Integration Foundation. An Estonian language house is now in Narva. Individual jobs have also been transferred from different agencies. We have become clearly wiser in this process in that such, let us say, the creation of universal telejobs is today a logical and natural process. It has become increasingly used by a number of agencies and agencies. Basically, if a job is not filled in in Tallinn and this job is needed and if it is adaptive, if, say, the customer base or service is not related to Northern Estonia or Tallinn, then all institutions and agencies can apply all-Estonian recruitment. During this recruitment, people have been employed in different county centres. It's been a little easier for the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs because they have units in front of them in the county centers. Maybe the other institutions are a little harder. We have a plan that, while there is also a project of state buildings in progress, this project takes into account a certain number of universal jobs: any authority can have a physical job in a state house if it finds a person to be hired there. With regard to the future plan, I will briefly say that it has been in the office. It has been decided that this over-Estonian recruitment should, in principle, take place in institutions, public entities, as well as in public foundations and public undertakings. I have forwarded this letter to all ministries and ministers, as decided by the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U23	Ivari Padar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U24	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We use terms like money laundering and greenwashing. How much have you now looked at this whole process in this context, how much paper-washing do we have? I am thinking of a situation where, in essence, people have already worked in so-called places. They have worked under Tallinn's structural unit and in their case simply Tallinn's unit has been called a local unit. That's one way. And the second topic is the extent to which the process has taken place so that people who live in Tallinn and have started to drive back and forth every day are simply working at the workplaces created in the neighbouring towns of Tallinn. Explain this in substance: are there really people who are highly qualified, especially in county centres, who have taken up these jobs there? Or has there been such a fictitious or seeming activity? Have you paid attention to this side and looked at how the process has actually taken place?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U25	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I've been watching. I've been there myself. Well, two examples I've been to recently: one unit of the Social Insurance Board was opened in Türi, and I also went to the EAS unit in Pärnu. It happened in one week. The overall feedback is positive and, in any case, at least for these examples, the labour force has been found precisely in that area. What did people say? Because they had enough time, this process lasted for a year and a half, two years. Nothing's gonna happen overnight. If we want to pry one institution open overnight and throw it at the other end of Estonia, this is practically not possible. Certain specific problems should also be taken into account. There have been a number of so-called sectors in this process. For example, certain new jobs created throughout Estonia have also been taken into account. As a rule, they have been in the unemployment fund, and the Police and Border Guard Board started to re-create the seats of constables all over Estonia. Well, that's two examples. I haven't discovered any systematic trickery. But there are troubled places. When the Estonian Geology Service was taken to Rakverre, to be honest, this decision was made before I was the minister last time, and this was the decision of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the service was practically re-established. I went to Rakvere recently and they have problems, of course. These specialists are related to Tallinn and there is definitely a need for some transitional period. In part, they work in Tallinn, some people have also been found on the spot or in this area. I'm sure it'll take longer. But, of course, if you want to take the whole units out, you have to take their specifics into account, it's like teaching. However, if you think about it logically, the mineral resources we have are in the area, and the geology service, as we approach only logically, could be located there. But this transition process is certainly more complicated. There are actually most work researchers, highly educated people, and such a composition overnight on the site does not complete. However, it has also been the case that work from Tallinn has taken place. At the same time, a few people who were forced to work in Tallinn went to work at the Social Insurance Board of Türi. And some of Pärnu's people who were forced to work in Tallinn went to work in the EAS unit in Pärnu. So there are people like that, and we have to think about them too. The general message is that it is also possible to work in a state-paid job where there is no central office or central office. Looking to the future, a person does not have to tie his life to Tallinn or Tartu alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U26	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. These regional jobs are also accompanied by much negative, as you yourself have said. In fact, it is quite problematic if we create meaningless pendulum migration. It is not just a question of people having to drive away to work; it is also a question of the fact that the life models of these families are quite intruded, the activities of families need to be reorganized. However, in addition to setting the goal of moving some of the jobs out of Tallinn, it was agreed in the framework of the work capacity reform that the government must also take very seriously the recruitment of people with reduced working capacity to the authorities. Public authorities should set an example by offering them jobs. I'd like to know how it's been. How many of these people have actually been employed since the agreement was concluded?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U28	Thank you for your question. I will first respond to your first statements that there is a great deal of pendulum migration and negative at all. As I said, there is experience in other countries. In Finland, there is a law that if the work of an institution or agency is being restructured, the institution or agency must search for a location outside Helsinki. They have this internship. Yeah, it takes time. A certain period of time must be given to reform so that the institution can work properly elsewhere in the region. This is the transition period and the migration of pendulums at that time is also quite natural. We cannot say that the process is only negative. Everything settles at last, it's going to work out. In principle, the rule is that, during a certain transitional period, about 25% of people move from the capital to a new place and 75% are hired locally. It's such a rule of fist. As far as people with reduced capacity for work and the way their recruitment has gone, this plan was yes a few years ago. You even had specific numbers on it. Unfortunately, I owe you an answer today. I remember that once a honourable member of the Riigikogu has already asked this question, now I promise to answer in writing. We probably do not have a separate summary. If this has been done by the Ministry of Social Affairs, it could be a question for the Minister of Social Affairs. But I'm going to write that question down for myself. I'm sure that's an important subject. The Minister of Public Administration has a duty to make an overview of the public service, but it does not cover the whole public sector, and I went to you with this review. This number could certainly be included in the review. This is an important issue and I will certainly talk to the Minister for Social Affairs about it. Perhaps this team, which is presented here every year for the public service, could also be a line from which we can see how many of these people we involve. I'm sure that's a good point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U29	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U30	Let's keep going. The next questioner is Maris Lauri, the replyer of the Prime Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, and the subject of the budget. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Helme in the role of Prime Minister! According to § 4 of the State Budget Act, the Government of the Republic must justify this publicly if it does not take into account the positions of the Board of Budgets. And the Ministry of Finance must comment and justify the assessment of the country's macroeconomic forecast and the public financial forecast. According to § 18 of the same Act, this must be done within two weeks. Now two weeks have passed, but what is not is the reasons of the Government of the Republic and the reasons of the Ministry of Finance. My question: does the Government of the Republic comply with the laws of the Republic of Estonia or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U32	Thank you. Yes, the Government of the Republic complies with the laws of the Republic of Estonia. But what's the delay, I'm not competent to answer you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U33	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U34	Thank you. I hope that you will certainly pass this message on to the Prime Minister and also to the Minister of Finance; they should answer this question openly. But perhaps, as a member of the government, you will be able to respond to at least one complaint from the Fiscal Council or to a fact which the Council draws to its attention. This is because, on the expenditure side of the state budget, the accounts are not very accurate and the accounts are good, they are presented with a significant delay, it is very difficult to keep an up-to-date track of whether the expenditure corresponds to the budget. What might happen is that in March next year, for example, your government will find itself in a situation, as Mr Jüri Ratas found in March of this year: it turns out that the budget is in serious disadvantage. What are you going to do to make sure this doesn't happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U35	This is, of course, a very complex technical issue, but also a speculative one, to which it is very difficult to give a direct concrete answer. What's the government up to? In fact, the government intends to revise the current fiscal policy in the Republic of Estonia very clearly. We're going to do a state budget review. We are going to review what costs are justified, what are unjustified, what are in the way of time, which can be reduced, which can be increased. We must, of course, also take into account the perspective relating to the European Union's financing lines. So it's a very complicated question. And I have to admit, of course, I'm not a financialist. All these twists and subtleties, I can't comment on shooting off my hip like that. We also saw, at the time when the budget was being drawn up, how difficult it was to balance the various budget lines, as I say. Very many experts were involved, who had to explain on very many occasions why the solutions were precisely such, not different. So what I want to say is that fiscal policy is being reviewed, it has actually already begun. We'll figuratively turn all the stones upside down and see what insects and lobsters live down there, whether they're edible or uninfested. And that is also the answer to what we are going to do if it turns out that budget receipts are not going well as predicted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U36	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I can say in introductory terms that we very much support your idea of reviewing the fiscal policy of the government over the last three years. You can tell Jüri Ratas that there are people in the Riigikogu who support it very strongly because it needs a real revision. But my question comes in the context of the budget. We have seen this budget and have noticed comments from the public, which, to my surprise, relate to agricultural subsidies. If I remember correctly, the three parties solemnly signed that the transitional grants would continue in full. This was promised before the elections by all three parties currently in the government, but now it seems that if the voices were caught and saved in the booth, that promise will be forgotten. I would like to hear from you, who are here today fulfilling the role of Prime Minister, why this promise, which has clearly been made very loudly, has clearly not been fulfilled, no transitional support of 15.3 million has been found.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U38	Thank you. Basically, I share your concern for farmers, for rural life as a whole. For decades, having been such a dog of two families, partly living in the countryside, partly living in the city, I know quite well about rural areas and I know the problems and concerns that are there. I would also like to say that the first government of Jüri Ratas is the first government and the second government is the second government. They are not identical and their political approaches, including to the budget, are not identical. I can assure you that. As far as the top-up is concerned, yes, let's just say that during some negotiation period we had the top-up on the spot a round zero. However, as a result of the great search, relocation and literally the twisting of the brain, we found 5 million in state support. But I can tell you that this is not the final score right now. We're looking for more resources. As a former member of the government, you certainly know how difficult it is to redirect money from different budget lines for another purpose. We're looking for those opportunities, and we actually can find the missing 10 million. How we can formalize it, I don't dare tell you right now. Once again: I am not financial, but we have also involved specialists in the Ministry of Finance, and we are working hard to raise farmers' subsidies. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U39	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U40	Let's move on to question four. The questioner is Indrek Saar, the respondent in the duties of the Prime Minister of the Interior Minister Mart Helme, the subject is pensions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of the Interior in charge of the Prime Minister. Your coalition is committed to basically tearing down the second pillar of your pension. You call it release. However, you have not carried out any impact assessments on what could actually happen. However, different survey companies have asked people, and the answers show that a very large proportion of those with the second pillar plan to withdraw this money. This means that the second pillar will no longer exist for a significant part of the Estonian people in the future. This, in turn, means that we do not really have any solution to this problem. We haven't heard any alternatives in the public. However, you have probably had to discuss this among yourselves in the government coalition, what we are doing in a situation where the population forecast says that people of working age are becoming fewer and that the number of people of old age is increasing even more rapidly. This, in turn, means that the first pillar pension will no longer guarantee people how to cope in the future, and those who do not have the second pillar will have to cope with today's EUR 320.330. Apparently, most of us cannot imagine how a person could cope with it, how it would be guaranteed to cope with it. What is your understanding of what a solution might be? In a couple of, thirty or actually ten years' time, these problems will probably begin to appear in part, but how should young people who have only recently entered the labour market and retired in several decades' time be able to cope in this context in the future? What's the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U42	Thank you. The solution is very unambiguous: growth, productivity growth, cost savings. There are solutions. By the way, I'm not a lawyer, but I've been watching some so-called lawyer movies. Your questioning would immediately fail in court because it is purely speculative. It may not be possible for such questionings to not fly legally at all. As far as the second pension pillar is concerned, it is the case with this pillar that I do not know that the draft reform of the second pension pillar would be in the process here in the Riigikogu. This is not the case, and for one very simple reason: work is under way on this draft. The government is ordering impact analyses and they are arriving for us, and on the basis of these impact analyses, we are also putting together this draft, which will be sent to you, the honourable Riigikogu, for discussion and processing. It is probably not the most sensible thing to anticipate events and to demonise something in advance. It makes more sense to wait for this draft, and then it will be possible to propose improvements to it, or, if this draft is not supported in this honourable Chamber, to vote it off. These are the options right here. As far as our demographic picture is concerned, the demographic picture is not so hopeless in terms of employment. We have over 30,000 people who are not included in the labour market. We are also seeing more and more people returning to Estonia who have left this country in the meantime. We can see that the economy is shrinking in neighbouring countries close to us, especially Finland, which means that labour needs are shrinking there. But we can also see that there is also an attempt to carry out the cheapest possible workforce that has already been brought in from third countries. Estonian workers are no longer in such a good position in this competition as they did a few years ago and they return home, which clearly alleviates our labour demand problem. But finally, I'd like to put together two topics that seem to be the favourite mathematics in this hall. One is climate issues and the other is labour issues, and also growth issues. These two things are actually directly related. There is no doubt that we can discuss global warming or non-warming and its causes or causes, but it is clear that the political course taken in the European Union today in relation to the climate is a huge catalyst for the introduction of new technologies, the invention and development of new technologies. This will certainly significantly change the picture of employment, economic structures and productivity over the next decade. So I am not so pessimistic as to claim that today's young people will not be able to receive a pension in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U43	Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U44	It was very nice to hear what faith you have in new renewable technologies, the belief that it could change the world. In this sense, I share your view. I hope that support for such developments will also be reflected in government practice. But you started answering the question with criticism of my question, as if it was not based enough on facts. However, the government has not carried out any impact analysis that will result in the destruction of the second pillar. And in this context, you do not offer any solution. My suggestion to you is that we do simple mathematics. If we look at today's population forecast, we will see that in 30 years' time, in order to maintain the same relationship between working age and retirement age, there will be an increase of 400000 people of working age. Even if we have involved the 30,000 people you mentioned, who are not currently included in the labour market, even if there are perhaps 100,000 people from Finland and other countries who have returned to Estonia, we still need an additional 250,000 270000 people. It would probably assume that each woman will have about twice as many children as she is now. Or are we going to bring in a migrant worker, to which you referred? So is this the perspective you're offering us?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U45	Thank you. I'm not offering that perspective at all. Once again, I stress that the exit is smarter and more efficient in the economy. It's possible, and it's actually what we want. We do not make Estonia rich by exploiting 200,000 or 400000 slave labour. In fact, those who come here for a low salary are no longer willing to work for this low salary tomorrow. It's a vicious circle we can't get out of. The way out is in a smart economy that needs to be invested in. I agree that there has been too little of these investments over the years. There have been too few of these studies over the years! Let's put our shoulders together, the opposition and the coalition, and we're looking for ways to push it! As far as impact assessments are concerned, I repeat: the government is working on this. These analyses will come and will be taken into account when drawing up this draft, which will come to this esteemed hall on your tables. So I wouldn't say it's a completely hopeless event.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U46	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It seems to me that you are here talking crap to the members of the Riigikogu. Why do I think that? Therefore, when we followed the debate on pension pillars in Eesti Pank, the honourable Minister of Finance Martin Helme said that you could discuss here from morning to evening, but the government has made its decision. You're trying to sell us soothing pills today and say don't worry, we're doing all the impact analyses, don't be nervous, everything's going great. If you tried to emotionally describe this plan to seriously demolish the pension pillars, if a good statesman, Tõnisson, was in this Chamber, he would probably use the expression from his book: these are moral robes, which do not even think about the future. Growth in welfare societies may not be more than 11⁄2% per year, and if the tax payers fall short, I cannot imagine how this system can be maintained without collection. In the duties of the Prime Minister Mart Helme, why do you put the Riigikogu to rest and say that there will be studies if you have decided the matter in the government? Don't you talk to your family at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U48	Thank you. I'm not sleeping with anyone here. I'm trying to make a pretty sharp appearance so you don't fall asleep here. I would say that there are now, in particular, bankers and fund managers who are very deeply concerned, because their incomes are shrinking, because they are likely to have to make riskier investments and take responsibility for them. This is clearly a concern for them. So far, it was really nice: Lei, feet on the wall, and the money is ticking. They had more money ticked than those whose money they were ticking. We'd like to take care of this situation. Our focus is on people, the real owners of money, not on those who make dividends on that money. There is a very fundamental difference. And it makes no sense to me that a party on the left is concerned about the bankers, not about the people. That's pretty weird. But let's talk about the labour force and the employed for a second. Mr Kruuse should be well aware that, at the end of the Soviet era, I might be wrong with a percentage, but the order of magnitude should be right for the entire 15-20% of the population was occupied in agriculture. There are now 3% of those employed in agriculture. All right! There has been a huge qualitative leap over this round of 25 years. When we are talking here about the fact that in 2030 there may be such a disaster that no one will receive a pension, the young people are doomed to slavery for the rest of their lives, these are all speculative arguments, which also lack any analytical proof. So what's the analytical proof here? When we talk about new technologies, in 1992, did anyone imagine that our agriculture would be what it was in 2019? Well, no one could have imagined it! This is what progress is all about, and progress is still ahead of us in the future. We're not gonna stop where we are right now. It is wrong to base today's situation on designing it for a period 20 years away. It's wrong, it's speculative, and it can be used in political rhetoric to demonize things, but it can't have a match in reality. That's the answer to your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U49	Thank you. I will also stop answering the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U50	Let's keep going. Today's fifth question: the questioner is Eerik-Niles Kross, the answerer in the role of the Prime Minister of the Interior Minister Mart Helme, the subject is the crimes of communism. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U51	Good chairman of the sitting! Good Minister of the Interior! Recently, 80 years have passed since the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was signed, and in this connection the European Parliament adopted a rather unique resolution. I would say that this resolution responds most to the national interests of Estonia among those who came from that house, which I have seen so far. Perhaps only one 1983 document is better. What did the resolution say? There the crimes of communist and fascist regimes were unequivocally condemned in one tree. Especially those of the Soviet Union were condemned, including the annexation of the Baltic States in 1940. But more importantly, the European Parliament found that Russia's current leadership is making efforts to distort historical facts and justifies the crimes of the Soviet totalitarian regime. The European Parliament considers this activity to be a 'dangerous part of the Russian information war against a democratic Europe'. The document also made a number of recommendations to the governments of the Member States on what to do next. No member of the Estonian government has voted in favour of this resolution. I'm not surprised about Yana Toom, but Jaak Madison didn't vote either. I now ask whether the behaviour of our ambassadors also reflects the attitude of the Government of the Republic towards the positions and recommendations expressed in this resolution, and if not, what is your position? Does the Government of the Republic intend to comply with the recommendations made in this resolution and do you think that the condemnation of the crimes of the Soviet Union, together with the condemnation of the crimes of fascist regimes and the response to Russian history counterfeiting, is in the national interest of Estonia today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U52	Well, it was the way I say it, a high school essay kind of question. It is very clear why they did not vote. I'm not talking about Yana Toom. Firstly, he is not a member of my party, and secondly, I am absolutely not responsible for his actions, just as I cannot be responsible for the actions of any other independent ambassador. But the question is what? The question is which organisation is the Council of Europe. What kind of organization is it, who fully restored Russia's powers to Russia, who occupied Crimea, occupied South Ossetia, occupied Abkhazia, occupied, wage war in Eastern Ukraine? What kind of organization is this, where does such a member belong? Did I get something wrong? [[Someone's commenting on the floor.]] Oh, we're talking about the European Parliament? Then I misunderstood. I can't say I don't know what considerations they had there, but I think the considerations were more or less the same. [[There's talk in the hall.]] I guess... I'm sorry! I'm not with this thing... Look, it's like this again. Let me not raise your voice, and don't laugh! I really have a request: if you prepare a question, then complete it so that it can be understood and an adequate answer can be prepared. Do not ask a question that cannot be understood adequately! And then don't start drooling in any way! Not pretty! It is not beautiful, esteemed delegates, to put the respondent in a position where he has not been able to prepare adequately in response. And my answer is now: I did not have the opportunity to prepare adequately for this question. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U53	Thank you. Eerik-Niles Kross, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U54	I shouted, because I wanted to say that this is not about the Council of Europe, but about the European Parliament, where Russia has never been a member and hopefully not in the near future. So that's not a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U55	Got it. Let's keep going. Javier in clothing, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U56	Thank you. Good minister! If you're in the prime minister's office, you can't afford the luxury of not being prepared. And if you are so confident that you have aspired to become a member of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, then it is your duty to be prepared whenever Members ask. However, if you have had the confusion of Mr Kross's question, I will try to formulate it more precisely or, on the contrary, simply so that everything is clear to you. This is where your colleague, Jaak Madison, was elected in the European Parliament elections, when he adopted a resolution condemning the crimes of the Communist regime. And, for some reason, your colleague, Jaak Madison, the same one who turned out to be elected, did not support this resolution. Please explain what the considerations of the EKRE representative were and whether the crimes of communism are in any way ambiguous to you, so that in some circumstances they do not have to be condemned.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U57	Thanks for the proverbs! The egg teaches chicken. I know very well for at least 20 years what the European Parliament is and what the Council of Europe is. I heard wrong, I have to admit it. Perhaps Taavi Kõivas remembers that when he was standing here, the questions from the hall, when they were presented with such a deadly voice, were hard to hear. I heard wrong. I'm sorry I heard wrong! As for Jaak Madison, I'm not Jaak Madison's babysitter. In my opinion, Mr Madison has provided completely adequate explanations of his decision; I have nothing to add here. As for the crimes of communism, I have had personal family contacts with them. I don't approve. I do not know that our party would have ever made a statement, made a statement that would justify or smooth out the crimes of communism in any way. I don't think there's anyone in this room right now to justify the crimes of communism. So it's kind of an open door break-in right now. And where did you fall? You fell into the emptiness.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U58	Thank you. I will finish the discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U59	Let's move on to question six. The questioner is Katri Raik, answerer is Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, the subject is regional development. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U60	Good President! Good minister! Yesterday, the factions of the coalition parties rejected the socialist proposal to ensure stable funding for the regional programme in Ida-Virumaa. It was pointed out that the time was not right and that the right time would be around at all. We have become quite comfortable here in Tallinn and have sometimes forgotten that Ida-Virumaa is also of special importance for internal security. Therefore, stable funding for the fund set up to support Ida-Virumaa would be extremely important so that we do not have to argue every year about the amount of money that can be written into the state budget. There has been talk of higher amounts than they have received in the budget. The source of disappointment is great. My question is: will you support the provision of stable funding for this fund? I hope you will. If you support it, what source of money could it come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U61	Thank you for your question. Good Katri, you know I've already been told in Ida-Virumaa that I should sign in because I've been there so often lately. I was there a while ago when this programme for Ida-Virumaa was planned. One of the proposals that sounded at the time, which was already a few years ago, was that the source could be a part of the resource fee. It seems fair to the people of Ida-Virumaa, because relatively much of the resource fees are received by the Treasury from Ida-Virumaa, and a certain part of this money could be linked so that it would go back to Ida-Virumaa. This Ida-Virumaa Action Plan, which is a broader programme for the period 2015 to 2020 and which I must explain now, has actually been presented by the Minister of Public Administration every year and has been supported in many different areas. If we are talking about a narrower programme in Ida-Virumaa, I, too, would like to have more resources there, and I will continue to make efforts to do so. But what we've gotten going there, all these measures have worked well. And, in fact, practice shows that we can use more resources than we have been able to allocate to this programme in the interests of these developments. I will, for example, bring support for industrial investments. If we look across Estonia, the country has supported industrial parks with 60 million. Ida-Virumaa has received 20 million, or a large part of this amount, for the development of industrial parks. At the moment, there is a concern that there is simply a need for the next push or help for entrepreneurs to come. And even a small amount of aid in the form of investment aid has shown that businesses are coming. In this case, they may also receive a slightly easier loan. You also know that supporting entrepreneurship in rural areas is not particularly favorable in banks, if you could say so. It is always easier for banks to support those business loans that are aimed at this market area, Tallinn and Harjumaa. So there are different measures, and quite several. I think the questioner knows that the main aim of the Ida-Viru programme is to diversify entrepreneurship in Ida-Virumaa. We know that one sector, one way or another, always tightens up, so something has to come back. But when it comes to environmental charges or resource charges, a week or a half ago, the Cabinet made a fundamental decision that we would continue to implement the broader Ida-Viru County agenda. The various areas make their proposals, and I will certainly go and ask the Minister for the Environment, and it is not possible to allocate any part of the environmental charges specifically to the environmental projects of the Ida-Virumaa programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U62	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U63	Good Minister, thank you for your positive response or your positive response. Speaking to the people of Ida-Viru, everyone says, as in one word, that the most important thing is the promotion of entrepreneurship and, secondly, the promotion of the living environment is important. You yourself specifically referred to the need to diversify entrepreneurship. We all understand that oil shale energy in this form is in a downward trend. In the near future, 30 October, the Riigikogu Development Monitoring Centre, the Ida-Virumaa Association of Municipalities and the Ida-Viru Support Group will organise a joint seminar in Parliament aimed at finding other development scenarios for the county. What solution do you see as Minister of State Administration? What are your next steps to convince the people of Ida-Viru County that economic diversification is necessary? And how do you plan to support the move in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U64	Thank you for your question. I am pleased that in these quite several years, when I have been able to deal with this issue, with various development perspectives in Ida-Viru County, I have found very good, enthusiastic people who believe in the development of Ida-Viru County. And I also say, in their way, that Ida-Viru County is not a problem, Ida-Viru County has potential, if we look at the entire economy of the Republic of Estonia, then we see great potential in the people of Ida-Viru County. If I were to talk about all the initiatives that have been taken towards Ida-Viru County, maybe it would take a very long time. But recently there was an event that had been prepared for a long time, all of these things, unfortunately, take a long time, could go faster, and that concerned emptying apartment buildings. You remember what happened to them a few years ago, there were big headlines everywhere. And indeed, on my own initiative, a solution began to be prepared a few years ago, and now, fortunately, we have reached a pilot project. We are discussing with local authorities through this process how best to deal with them. The most demolished and poorest houses have already demolished the municipalities themselves, but in this process we want to discuss all the steps. I certainly don't want to get the impression that we're going to go and tear everything down in Ida-Virumaa. But since a lot of houses are in bad shape there, people who have remained in such a house should be found another area. There is a need to solve ownership issues and other legal problems, renovate apartments. From now on, we should reach the point of view that the renovation of apartment buildings, not just the demolition, will also reach these areas. And why not also build rental homes that we have also made decisions about during the previous government. It's started, and it should definitely go on. One of the biggest problems in rural areas outside Tallinn and Harjumaa is now when we have economic growth and job supply quite large, more and more housing. We have agreed that we will certainly try to implement such measures during this government too. For example, there is the issue of the bail-out of housing loans. Much of the problem is that the real estate market is such that the price of real estate is not a guarantee to provide housing. And so it is everywhere in Estonia outside these market areas. However, as far as Ida-Viru is concerned, all these different measures must also be taken to tackle housing problems there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U65	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Ida-Virumaa has become a recognised tourist area, probably largely because of the entrepreneurial people living there, but also because of our President and probably also because of the many investments that have been made in the field of culture during different governments. And if you're even invited to sign in, I'm sure you've had a pretty big part to play. However, my question is whether the programme of Ida-Virumaa has the means to develop tourism and, through it, let us say, to increase the security of the state and, on the other hand, to link more people to Estonia. What are you going to do, or have you already done? When I look at the budget, I see that the pilot project on housing is excellent and helps people in need to get out of these empty and ugly houses, but unfortunately, the budget is too small to renovate their apartments or build rentals and speaks the opposite language.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U67	Thank you for your question. When we talk about the broader Ida-Viru action plan, I look forward to the proposals of the ministries for the development of different areas as a priority in Ida-Virumaa. These are the proposals that I look forward to next spring, as well as planning the use of European Union funds and deciding on the resources related to CO2 quotas. We have to look at it as a model. I am also trying to follow these proposals on several occasions, so that investments and operating grants from different sectors take into account that we have some other problem areas, there is also regional policy in general: there is not only Ida-Viru County, but also South-East Estonia. Yes, the questioner indicated that we had "fieldwork" of public officials, last year they were in Ida-Virumaa, this year in Southeast Estonia. The President also followed this pattern and brought forward both Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia as a region. Quite a lot of investment has been made in tourism. The programme to strengthen regional competitiveness provided for a separate urban measure both in Estonia and in Ida-Virumaa, for example, which has also supported many such projects. I know there was some support for the Kohtla Mining Museum under the Ida-Virumaa programme. This was, as far as I know, the political decision of the previous government. I am not sorry about this, it will in any case support the development there and perhaps tourism. This should continue to be done. There was a reference to the RES. On the contrary, I can say that nothing has been locked anywhere, and when we negotiate, my views on regional policy and those of the European Commission coincide. Now I have to tell the other ministers in the government. This measure, which is aimed specifically at those regions where business tourism should be developed and the living environment developed, I cannot say specific figures, but proposals have been made. Let us see how the European Commission is going to meet us, but on the basis of the initial negotiations, it can be said that the European Commission's position is that we could use the Regional Fund in particular, but why not the Social Fund more to implement regional policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U68	Thank you. I will also stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U69	Let's keep going. Question 7: The questioner Urmas Kruuse, the answerer in the role of the Prime Minister of the Interior Minister Mart Helme, the subject of food safety. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I have to say in advance that, in answer to my first question, you kind of described my attitude to you as a fool. You also referred to an article by a journalist. I dare say at this point that I am asking my questions here in the Riigikogu, not to the fool, but to the person who is here today in the role of Prime Minister. And I don't have the authority to call people stupid. And if I had that competence, I'd skip this thing between the patient and the doctor. But my question comes about food safety and one serious problem. I very much hope that when you prepared yourself to answer this question, you were familiar with the fact that one of the bacteria in one of the Estonian fishing industries has caused quite a lot of panic in our public space. No undertaking will be positively affected if such circumstances appear in its industry. I'm sure you know that it started in other parts of Europe. On the basis of the safety reports, the Food and Veterinary Office has literally started a total check because it was a very dangerous strain. Deaths were related to the same strain, which a priori does not mean that a particular product may have been responsible, but it gave the veterinary authorities the opportunity to carry out total controls. And then, suddenly, last week, a press release was published from the feather of your party's Minister for Rural Affairs, where he clearly attacked the press and thus the public. He accused the authorities that they were applying excessive force in this control action and that it was extremely unfair. In my opinion, it caused damage to the image and credibility of the food industry and food safety in Estonia as a whole. Please tell me why you are not ordering your colleague not to make such statements.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U71	Thank you. That was the kind of question in which it was really possible to assume what was being discussed. At the same time, food safety is such an extensive area that you might have thought that the respected questioner might have an interest in the moose preserves produced by some hunters. It's possible, isn't it, that you're interested in it too? But since indeed this subject of fish has recently been discussed in the media and in the public at all, I dared to assume, using a deductive method, that this is what we are talking about. So I was able to get an overview of the whole event. I have several pages of chronology here of all these samples: when something was taken somewhere, when they found it, when they didn't find it. In fact, it is not just a question of food safety. It is also a question, and this is, in fact, perhaps the most important in this case, of the fact that the information between the Minister and the office under his authority did not move correctly. The minister doesn't have to read in the press that there are problems in his administration, that some company is going to be withdrawn from the market, and so on everything else that comes with it. I don't think it's a good practice if the minister is like some sort of outsider about the whole thing. I think that is precisely what is at the heart of the conflict. And the Minister for Rural Affairs said in his press release that the trial of companies and products would be based, not on newspaper articles, but on certified veterinary samples. Since it has been a while now and there has been more opportunity to get into this subject, I would say that the Minister for Rural Affairs has taken the bull by the horns and is currently very seriously dealing with this matter. After all, it is perfectly clear, and also stated by law, that the food that comes on the consumer's table must be safe. The question is that all this sampling and the detection of a potentially dangerous bacterium for humans must now be pointed out in the long term, in order, after all, to find out where this chain began, where this chain ends and how much it is actually part of the company and how much it may be the intermediate link maintenance companies, cold stores, supermarket chains, etc. This is what the Minister for Rural Affairs is doing right now, and I think it is quite adequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U72	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I certainly cannot agree with what you said in the introduction: it was as if the minister found out later. In front of the public, he never mentioned that he found out late. But I am concerned, and my reaction, and perhaps the public response, has been painful because the Minister tried to carry out political intervention. And your party and your ministers already have the same experience, I mean the case of the PBGB. Why, though, is this particularly dangerous in this regard? The defence of the company in itself seems to be a noble mission, but the Minister should remain as neutral as possible in such a matter, so as not to call into question the operations of an independent agency. This may mean that the impact of the case may not only be negative for this undertaking but for the whole sector. You rightly mentioned before China that the Minister for Rural Affairs has been there. Many other ministers have also been there, but there is a particular monitoring of how we have food safety stories and what signals are. I would like to ask from here that the minister was only in Estonian Television last night and in fact basically lied there. When we had a meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs, we were given a clear overview of the fact that the Health Board actually supports the more stringent sanctions imposed by the Food and Veterinary Office. This sanction means that there is zero tolerance and that all output is checked before reaching the consumer. Are you sure your minister is working in the right direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U74	The short answer is yes, I'm sure. This morning I met with the minister and the minister said he got some fresh information right after he left the show. So blaming the Minister for lying is not correct. The minister didn't have the latest information, he got it afterwards. Today, this information is there, and he also reported it to me and the entire group that he met. So there's no lying, there's no wrestling, there's no covering up or there's no justification for anything. But we will come back to the fact that the Minister has intervened in the work of the Office. Come on, stop it! It is the job of the Minister to interfere with the work of the Office. The agencies are not a country in the country, some independent institutions that do what they want, and the minister spins his thumbs, drives around in a fancy car, attends meetings in Brussels and Luxembourg, makes an important face, and that is where his actions are limited. No, the Minister is in charge of his administration. The Minister is in charge of his administration! Perhaps this will come out of the way for former ministers of the Reform Party, but our ministers will run their own administration and find out what is going on in the administration. They do not accept that they are informed afterwards, but demand that they be informed on a rolling, timely basis. And if there are any problems, the problems will reach the Minister in the Ministry to give guidance on how to deal with them. That's how I run my ministry, by the way. So there's probably a collision of different driving styles here, if you could say so. I have no reason to accuse Mart Järvik of anything. Mart Järvik has intervened quite adequately and afterwards, with certain complications perhaps, I admit, beginning to correct the abnormal situation where the minister sits in ignorance and the head of some office does what he wants. That can't be. Who, then, is the Minister: is the Head of the Office a Minister or is the Minister a Minister? It's a matter of principle. The Head of the Office is under the authority of the Minister, not the other way around. That's my answer to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U75	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U76	Thank you, Mr. Helme, for your frankness. But I'm going to inform you that minded people don't agree with you. Food safety monitoring is an independent institute designed to protect both consumers and Estonian producers, so that there is no attitude that I have a political mandate, I say what the bacteria are or are not. The kind of talk that you have just said, when you apply it, our export opportunities are closed, and not just our export opportunities. But we also looked closely at what your minister had to say yesterday. His main message was that he's sitting there saying there's nothing on his desk. Nothing has been brought to his desk, he has no records, no one has said anything to him. You confirmed the same thing today that the information did not really move. What kind of judgment do you give to such a leader? I understand that voter votes given by the voters, by the way, no votes were given to Järvik, it's a sanctity that allows us to look for bacteria inside the fish, but from a control point of view: what kind of driver do you think this is, who's sitting there waiting for someone to bring him something? And then he goes on TV and says, "Oh, but nothing was brought to me, and since nothing was brought to me, I went and said, "You can't really write anything in the paper and you can't really watch anything at all." What is your assessment of this style of leadership?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U77	Thank you. I'd say that minded people wouldn't talk like we just heard here. The driver's in charge, and once the driver's in control, the driver's going to dismantle the information lock. And that's what the Minister of Rural Affairs is doing right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U78	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U79	Let's keep going. Today's eighth question is Riina Sikkut's question to the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, in the role of Prime Minister, on the subject of the budget. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U80	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The subject of my question is 'Budget', but don't worry, there is no need for thorough preparation, the question will be simple. But I'd like to open up the questioner's perspective first. If there cannot be a questioner for the first two questions in this Chamber, it is actually very difficult to stick to the prepared question. Your answers are such that I would like to continue to ask about the same food safety. My question is synthesized by what has already been said in this Chamber today. Indrek Saare's question about the future livelihood of pensioners you answered nicely that the solution is economic growth, the solution is to increase productivity. Of course, that's right. Estonia's strategic documents, including development plans, have been aimed at increasing economic growth and productivity for years. Similarly, one of the objectives of the current coalition is a knowledge-based economy. There are a number of measures in the budget for this purpose. However, we can read in the explanatory memorandum that 5 million will be allocated to transitional support to improve the competitiveness of agriculture. So we will increase competitiveness by reducing subsidies by 10 million. Alcohol excise duties have been reduced to encourage foreign trade and exports. This is in a situation where Estonia's corporate growth strategy highlights one of the most important goals of improving Estonia's international reputation, which cannot be achieved as a cheap alcohol state. In other words, if, on the basis of this budget, we are moving towards a knowledge-based economy by reducing excise duties on alcohol and reducing transitional payments to farmers, how will it be possible to pay pensions in the future as a result of growth and productivity gains? It's just asking me questions. But here's the question for you. In your words, please summarise with a few sentences the main focus of the state budget, the major objectives that will be achieved through this budget over the next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U81	Yeah, well, it's our fault we exist. There's nothing you can do about it, but we exist and there's nothing you can do about it. After all, your questions were a series of questions, starting with agricultural subsidies. I replied that we are looking for these opportunities, and I am quite convinced that we will find them. What are these major goals for economic development? Big investments. [[Riina Sikkut says something about it.]] In this budget, we are primarily thinking about people. And thinking about people means raising wages: raising teachers' salaries, raising the salaries of internal security staff, raising the salaries of cultural workers, investing in certain objects. One of the first things they put on my desk when I went to the Ministry of the Interior was the repair debt in every possible cordon of the Ministry of the Interior, etc., etc. 90 million. 90 million was a repair debt in one ministry alone, under the wise leadership of the Reform Party! Within this year's number, if I remember correctly, we set aside $45 million to get this thing going again. We are repairing a number of important items that have not been completed so far: National Library, Archives, ERR's new building. Jne, et cetera. These are great things that have all been unfinished for years, years and years. That is what we are doing, and it is clearly economic. In addition, we will review the possibilities for obtaining loans on the taboo issue, which was not allowed to be absolutely touched for years. We are reviewing, as has been said in the press, the possibility of mobilising private investors' money in order to start large infrastructure projects and then build up the sites. Raising the qualitative level of internal security also requires money and we have targeted it from the budget. So I think that the budget of this government is very ambitious, unlike the budgets that we have been dealing with here in the last four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U82	Riina Sikkut, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U83	Thank you. On my first question, I wanted to point out that the stated objectives are beautiful, but the actions that follow do not really lead towards these objectives. Speaking of the focus of next year's budget, you will bring out repairs and raise the salaries of public sector employees. Yesterday, the Minister of Finance introduced wage increases to us in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. This applies to some individual ministries, with wage increases generally ranging from 0.8 to 2.5%. What are we talking about? And the volume of investment as a whole will decrease in the next year, the next year and the year after that, in particular because the structural funds for the new period cannot yet be mobilised and the time for structural funds for the old period is running out. In fact, it is important to focus on people and employees' salaries. It is also important, of course, that buildings are renovated and that the working environment is healthy and modern. But it's not what you do. I'd ask that. Tomorrow morning at 8:30 we will be discussing the fundamentals of legislative policy in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The second paragraph of this document states: 'The Riigikogu shall adopt only a law which complies with the principles of good lawmaking. ' And then: 'The legislative policy is inclusive, predictable and knowledge-based. " How does this come together with the second draft on the pension pillar, which is supposedly being completed and for which impact analyses are supposed to be commissioned, but what is supposed to be adopted this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U84	I'm sorry, I don't think I heard that last part very well! [[Riina Sikkut will specify the floor.]] Don't worry, he'll answer it. And if he doesn't answer, you can make some criticism and make some improvements. Don't worry! Don't be so worried all the time, sweethearts, in this hall! You're awfully worried. Look, this climate is what it is, and it's not allowed to heal, as you all know, but don't be so pessimistic! As far as wage increases are concerned, I cannot speak for all ministries, but the percentage of wage increases by the Ministry of the Interior is roughly 2.5%, that is the whole area. I think there is one next question that concerns this subject: whether we are reaching it, I do not know, but I am telling you that we are working very seriously at the moment on developing these schemes, how to share the resource in a way that raises wages by more than 2.5%. We raise wages especially for "front workers," ordinary policemen, rescuers, emergency workers, not superiors, as was good practice in the previous and previous government. A few times a year, boss wages were raised, but not lower grades, which, by the way, caused a lot of resentment and quitting. So we're thinking about people, and we're serious. And not only think, but follow the actions. But you're getting ahead of yourself again. You have not even adopted the state budget, but you already blame the fact that the state budget is somehow misguided and badly done. But, darlings, it's in your hands! You can complement it here, improve it, make your own proposals, if you are unhappy with something. This is the hall that accepts the state budget, not this box right here. The lounge, of course, sounds proud, we're like some kind of freemason gang, but we're not really. We don't accept the state budget. We will present you with the draft state budget, and you will pass the law. That is why the committees are discussing the matter, who can make changes. And the actions will follow, you can be sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U85	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U86	Thank you. Thank God these answers are left with a verbatim! Let's just get somebody to pick up and do some fucking fact checks! I believe that any newspaper published in Estonia would receive a full page of total factual errors from your answers. But the government has done its best, has done its job and has presented its vision of the state budget to Parliament. There can be no argument about that. Nor can there be any dispute that what is at the heart of each budget's success is the end of the budget meeting, you have already failed. And you're insanely insane because the budget is in a huge structural disadvantage. You say that you think about people and say that thinking about people is about three times slower than the average in Estonia and four or five times slower than in several sectors. If you think it's somehow unsavory, you're very wrong. I don't suppose these people expect you to think of people like that. I think that it can be easily controlled, I guess there hasn't been a single year since the crisis or just after the crisis, if the public sector had been as slow as you are now offering. It is also simply verifiable that investments will decrease compared to the previous government. By the way, they are also decreasing compared to the time of the previous government, so any talk about the opposite is very easily disproved. You will either reduce investment or you will say a postponement of this reduction, which is actually a reduction in the same way. But here's my question. You've been telling us all summer that the most important priority in your administration is an internal defence reserve. At first, you said you needed 20 million to make the dreams come true, then you said 5 million goes in a year, and now the budget is zero. The question is simple: doesn't this Ministry of the Interior budget management come out at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U87	Yeah, well, what am I gonna say to Tavi Clothes about all this? Firstly, I recall this time here, now about four and a half years ago, when I asked questions about internal security from behind the bench to Taavi Rõivas, and Taavi Rõivas quite quite replied that Estonia was not preparing for war. We were talking about community protection back then, we were talking about evacuation. For now, we have pretty-nicely prepared evacuation plans, we have population protection plans, etc. But what does that mean, Tavi? [[???T. Rõivas saalist: 'Aitäh!'???]] Ah, it's good that we're so polite to each other, thank you all the time! Happy children's rooms! What wasn't really what you did. As far as failure is concerned, what a failure is that nothing was done at the border in your time except that after theft of the suitcase, the brush was cut off. Now we're gonna build the border and we're gonna build it. We're gonna build it by 2023, and we're gonna build it nice and easy. As for the fact that no money is earmarked for the internal defence reserve, it is. Preparatory activities have been launched and the Ministry of the Interior budget has the money available for this purpose. These preparations do not need money at the moment, but the money needed for subsequent operations is already the purchase of equipment, the purchase of armaments and everything else, which we have planned for the budget for 2021. So don't worry, everything will be done, nothing will be done! But I understand you have political jealousy because we're doing things that you didn't even think they needed to be done. Now it's a good thing that you've at least started to think, to analyze how they're gonna get it all done. Very well done. We've got specialists sitting here who've put their shoulders on and developed concepts, everything's gonna work out great. Don't worry! Look, it's not that dark out there, maybe you don't understand it in this hall. Everything's coming! As far as investment is concerned, it is the case, my friends, that we are looking at this matter with a much broader perspective, not the way I have heard in this Chamber, oh, my God, boredom: the balance of the budget and, in good times, stocks are collected, etc. What kind of supplies? Who? For bankers to earn dividends in funds? Thank you. During a period of negative interest, stocks are not collected, but invested, looking for ways to use the money, which we intend to do. There are the same PPP projects that we are talking about. But the analysis of the state budget, the dismantle of the state budget and the redeployment of all these things will come. We've been in government for less than six months, but you're waiting for us to do the job you've done in 17 years. Well, I'm sorry, but I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U88	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U89	Let's keep going. Today's ninth questioner is Urve Tiidus, the question is presented to the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, in the role of Prime Minister, and the subject is the labour force. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U90	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! Today the annual World Economic Forum report on global competitiveness was published. It is known to measure the interplay between the policies of the national competitiveness institutions and factors influencing the level of productivity. The attention of international news channels was mostly due to a change at the top of this ranking. Singapore has so far taken the lead in replacing the United States. It is good for Estonia to know that we have risen one place higher: from 32 to 31st place, and we are still a little ahead of Latvian-Ladies. The school child knows that competitiveness is influenced by the labour force's existence or lack of it, and, of course, by the quality of the labour force. Various ideas and solutions have been proposed in Estonia over time to alleviate labour shortages. At the end of last year, the previous Minister of Entrepreneurship, Tammis, urged the government to exclude engineers and scientists from the calculation of the immigration limit. As we know, we have a slightly lower share of the workforce than the average in the European Union. But just now, I'm going to go to the specific question of the coordination circle with the Home Office draft. Your idea is to start dividing the immigration limit by six months. At first glance, this seems to be a technical change: 657 residence permits in the first half of the year, as much as in the second half of the year. Your patriotic colleagues in the government were more or less coordinating it, but there was no coordination from the ministers of the Prime Minister's party. Will you please share information as to why colleagues disagreed? And are you going to talk them out of it and still implement this initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U91	Thank you. Indeed, these coordinations were missed. I guess every ministry and every minister looks at the subject from their own shit, and I wouldn't say that their comments were baseless. At the moment, in my ministry, I have asked for these comments, the cover letters that came about in connection with non-coordination, to carry out an analysis, to see if they can be taken into account and, if so, to what extent. You can then exchange information between ministries. And we're definitely going to move on to the second circle with this bill. What made this bill? What caused the quota to be divided? The reason is very simple. After all, we have a basically done analysis, which shows that certain companies and certain sectors are already grabbing the workers in this quota section in the first days, and for the rest of the year, the others are practically getting nothing from there. In order to disperse it and give different companies, different sectors, more opportunities to play along in this game, we have proposed a solution to divide the quota into two. And once again, we didn't get any coordination right now, but we're going to analyze the proposals from other ministries and go on a new round.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U92	Urve Tiidus, clarification question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U93	Thank you. The Minister of Social Affairs was one who did not initially coordinate this draft. He suggested that the desire to spread the immigration limit more evenly is understandable, as you have explained here today, but there are many questions left in the air. I'm referring to an article on national broadcasting news. For example, it is incomprehensible to the Ministry of Social Affairs that the Ministry of the Interior has chosen five employers' fields of activity and how fixing the division of residence permits for work according to the employer's main activity supports economic development. And an interesting question is also the role of the unemployment fund in the future, when the need to hire an alien has to be assessed. The Ministry of Social Affairs was still puzzled by the criteria for assessing the weighty national interest when hiring a fixed-term employee. You have already said in your first reply that you will review everything, move forward on this issue and debate more to get these coordinations. Has the Minister for Social Affairs received further explanations and approved the draft? Do you have any information about this now, or do these differences persist? I understand this isn't going to happen, but maybe it's going to get stuck. And the second question, if you don't mind: do you have any good solutions to alleviate labour shortages that have not been used in Estonia so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U94	Thank you. Well, of course, this machine doesn't work so fast that we already have some sort of own solutions. Discussions have taken place with other ministries, and we have informed them that our answers to their questions and assessments will come to their views. And we'll be waiting again for their answers. So this process will definitely take some time. As far as serious national interest is concerned and what kind of workforce we need in the first place, we are all likely to agree that we want a skilled workforce here and still a skilled workforce, not a slave labour, as it tends to be. If we look at the overall picture, we can see that we actually have a number of areas where we do not have any restrictions on bringing workers to Estonia. Above all, it's an IT field, isn't it? But basically, we still see an attempt to bring cheap labour to Estonia within the quota, from third countries to the construction sector, to the construction of roads, no such low-quality labour force. This is certainly not the way to bring the Estonian economy to a qualitatively new level. I think that, if we do not achieve anything else now with these discussions over labour restrictions and better taxation of labour and everything else, then we will still significantly raise society's awareness of this whole set of problems. And, after all, in disputes, the truth is born. We will certainly achieve some sort of balance in terms of the needs of employers and our demographic and economic capacities, I mean socio-economic. It is not that a person comes here and simply starts to produce added value while working. This person has his own social interests. Maybe he's got kids with him, even temporarily. What are these kids doing here? Where are they going to kindergarten? Where do they go to school? It's not so easy that it's just employees. We're talking about people, these people aren't just employees, people aren't machines. So here, in fact, there are a number of problems that were raised in the Ministry of Social Affairs, and we are trying to find answers to these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U95	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have tried to give the impression in your answers and statements that you are very supportive of the agricultural sector. But within the framework of the same question, I looked at the five priorities that you have set, and I am amazed to find that there is no mention of farming. You have very vividly described in your speeches how agriculture has changed since 1990: less labour is needed, everything has become very effective. Despite this, we know that there is also a shortage of working hands in agriculture, and part of this shortage of working hands must be compensated by external labour. And it's not a matter of temporary, I don't know, summer strawberry and other berries pickers or autumn workers, it's about people who work here all the time. This also applies to the livestock sector. Those farmers who have used and are currently employing Ukrainian workers have clearly said that if they did not have this workforce, they should close the doors because they cannot mechanize any more. My question is: why did you not include the agricultural sector among the priority areas when you discussed immigration quotas?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U97	Thank you. The question is, of course, absolutely topical. I agree that the lack of working hands in certain sectors of agriculture, large farms, but also periodically during berry harvesting, or even during the harvesting period, is problematic. The issue is that we must reach a social agreement, whether we want to flood Estonia with cheap Slavic labour or whether we want to preserve the nation state. Actually, there's a choice. If we want to preserve the nation state, we need to think about the solutions that need to bring as little cheap labour here as possible: how we regulate it in law, how we regulate it in fiscal policy. This is what I am trying to do in my field right now. If someone says that this is a crime against the Estonian economy, I do not agree. I do not agree that the attitude is about that, as long as they come and do their job here, taxes and the whole legal side is completely secondary. How long they're here, whether they're here as illegals, whether they get an envelope wage here, whether they pay tax or not, it's a whole complex of very acute issues that are related to this workforce. And I'm trying to find solutions to them. But the main question is whether we want Estonia to remain a nation state, or whether we agree that national rule in the name of the Estonian economy and in the interests of certain entrepreneurs will quietly and quietly dissolve in the waves of invading labour and migration imposed on us. This is also a matter of principle in this Chamber. It is not decided by one minister; it is not decided by one party; it is basically a pointy issue for society as a whole. I believe that the state of Estonia is the highest form of the self-realization of the Estonian people, and all that threatens it must be addressed from this point of view. If there are other people who think it is important for certain entrepreneurs to have a workforce, the main thing is that somebody gets richer somewhere, empty because of the country, nationality, Estonian flag and anthem it is also possible. In a pluralist society, all approaches are possible. But this is not the political direction that I represent.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U98	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U99	Today's tenth question: the questioner is Vilja Toomas, the answerer is the Prime Minister's role as Minister of the Interior Mart Helme, the subject is ethics. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U100	Thank you. Mr. Mart Helme! A preliminary hearing of Marti Kuusik's trial will take place tomorrow. He is accused, among other things, of causing four weeks of harm to the victim. Despite the fact that you, as Minister of the Interior, claimed that this was a slander and that no investigation would be initiated, and that you threatened me with a court for this, the charges of physical abuse have still been made. Or another thing: I would like to talk about a Member of the European Parliament, Jaak Madison, who hired his partner's father as his assistant. According to the rules of the European Parliament, it is not allowed to hire close relatives, but since Madison is not married to her partner, technically this is a jock situation that I do not think is appropriate in any way. How do you feel about this as the leader of the party and acting Prime Minister here? Do you personally consider this to be the right and ethical thing to do when you hire members of your tribe for taxpayers' money as an assistant?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U101	Well, what can I say? I guess we could all look at our life story and decide if we've behaved ethically at every stage of our lives. Surely we all look in the mirror and say that sometimes things have gone wrong. You've already convicted Marti Kuusik here several times. We're still waiting to see if he's found guilty. Let's wait! The charges have been brought. I understand that this is also a matter of honor for the prosecutor's office that had to be brought to justice. But is this accusation going anywhere? Let's wait, let's not judge people without really being convicted! So much for him. As for Jaak Madison, yes, if I told you honestly, I would not have taken such a step. I haven't seen Jaak Madison, I haven't been able to talk to him about it. I'm sure I'll ask him why he decided that and whether he's gonna stick to that decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U102	The fruit of Thomas, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U103	Thank you. I forgot an apology! If you don't turn the key on, now it's done. I so understand that EKRE does not consider a life partner to be a family, despite the fact that young people are about to have a child together. But that's it. I will continue with the extension of my question. This month, we learned that your party's former member, Endel Oja, ended up in a corruption scandal because he asked for 10,000 euros to pay for the lobby by Kadarik Tüür Architects OÜ, who won the design competition for the new TV house at ERR. Endel Oja claimed that he acted on his own initiative, but he was a very influential member of the EKRE This is undoubtedly an influential post in order to have links with a certain authority behind government-related decision-making processes. And at least it looks like he was definitely a bridge to the decision-makers for the other half. Don't you think, in the light of the cases I have pointed out, that your party is actually cultivating an unethical way of doing things? You proposed to Endel Oja to leave the party, do you propose the same to Jaak Madison?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U104	Come on, don't look everywhere for corruption and unethical behavior! Let us remember that before the elections, a newspaper came out of the Estonian Päevaleht with long and long lists, which saw how many criminals there were in all political parties. Who acted most resolutely? Estonian Conservative People's Party. Right away, we put the board together, and we immediately took all these people out of the Corpore party. That's it, that's it! That's exactly what we did with Endel Creek. Endel Oja was called to the board when we found out. In fact, it is not true that he asked for a bribe If a person presents a bill in public, officially by his own company, it's not bribery. Whether this bill was justified is a completely different question. I don't know his business, I haven't done his business, it's none of my business. If there's a court case, he'll have to take responsibility for it himself, because, look, we don't have such a thing as collective responsibility. Your questions are all like we have some kind of collective responsibility. But your party also has collective responsibility. We look like plastic bags, white sweaters and mother-in-law's closets! Let's remember them! Please write a statement of resignation, get out of this Riigikogu! You still have collective responsibility without redemption, you have unresolved sins. The indulgence has not been written out by any pope to you. So if you want to crucify someone, start with your party. As for us, we asked Endel Oja out, and we made him a specific suggestion: perhaps you will leave voluntarily. If you don't volunteer to leave, that same board meeting is gonna take you out of the party right now. That's it, that's it! We have acted completely honestly, transparently and ethically. There's nothing opaque here. As for Endel Oja's activities, yes, he was the head of the economic panel, he was a very good head of the economic panel, he brought us a lot of different economic specialists, and for that we are grateful to him, but what he did we cannot approve of. I mean this particular bill. And as a result, he is no longer a member of our party. Everyone act in the same straight line, representatives of the various political parties, and then come and talk about some ethical problems!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U105	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U106	Thank you. Good waitress! As I understand it, this last question of Vilja Toomas was missed, and I hope he can continue on this subject. But I would like to move the debate on whether it is ethical for Parliament and the public to disseminate false information if there is still the Prime Minister's role. Now, once again, I'm sure you'd like to go into some examples years ago, but I'm going to ask you specifically about specific facts. Both the eastern border and the construction of the Tartu highway in four lanes have previously been inside the RES, and the fact that it appears from the current state budget is that they have been postponed or their budgets have been reduced. That's the case with both of them. But my main question is that you talked all summer that the most important priority in your field is the internal defence reserve. The whole community was discussing where to find these men, how to supply them, what weapons could be used. There was a very thorough debate. I am completely ignoring, at the moment, whether it is a good idea or a bad idea or whether it is your idea or an official idea, but you assured the public that it has been decided, that the internal defence reserve is set at EUR 20 million. But then it turned out that this EUR 20 million was actually EUR 5 million. Nevertheless, even after the budget had already been submitted to Parliament, you said at the conference on senior defence courses that this is your most important priority and it will come next year. If we look at the budget now, we will see that there is no EUR 5 million. Today you said that you have foreseen this amount by 2021. I will dismantle the country's budgetary strategy, which is made by the current government with your participation: in 2021, the internal defence reserve is also set at EUR 0. Were you aware of false information or were you unable to defend your priorities in the field when negotiating with the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U107	Thank you. I haven't filed any false information. Taavi Kõivas has been prime minister. True, it ended as it ended. The internal defence reserve is a very simple thing. All such initiatives require preparatory work. They call for preparatory work to find out how we can use defence resources, what bureaucratic procedures we need to initiate, what legislative initiatives we need to launch. We have, as I said, an opportunity in the Ministry of the Interior budget to finance certain preliminary work. That's what we do. In 2020, we will initiate the creation of an internal defence reserve with these preparatory works. As far as the budget for 2021 is concerned, yes, it is currently not included in the RES. We have basically had a verbal debate on this subject. We do not know today what exactly the budget for 2021 will be. But it is clear that the activities that we are starting now must continue in 2021. We are certainly also looking for opportunities to do this today, I have spoken silently to the Minister of Defence in front of you, for joint procurement, so that we can strengthen national defence not by silo towers, but more creatively and collectively. These negotiations are still pending. Where they're coming from, I can't tell you right now. I have not given you any false information, I have actually given you a very adequate picture of what we are doing in this area and how far we have come. Yeah, there was a choice, and it was my choice if we could find money for raises, or if we could find $5 million for the internal defense reserve. I preferred raises. I preferred people because we can move forward step by step, at a somewhat slower pace and in other ways. Finally, it is very wrong to think about money. First there must be a vision, and then there will be money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U108	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the questions. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your reply. Today's Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U109	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the 4th working week Wednesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, you have the opportunity to hand over drafts and inquiries. Looks like there aren't any. Then we'll go ahead and do a presence check. 85 members of the Riigikogu are present and 16 are missing. Now some precision on today's agenda. On the fifth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the consular law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws (44 SE), the author will make a presentation by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U110	Yesterday we were in the middle of 37 discussions on the draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, where the initiator's representative answered the questions of members of the Riigikogu. Please answer the questions in the Valdo Randpere speech chair. The first question to be asked today is Marko Šorin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U111	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! Let me ask two questions, because one is obviously a technical point concerning § 3. You want to amend paragraph 1 and add paragraph 3, but nowhere does paragraph 2. Is it out of the text, or have you switched 3 and 2? You can probably be more specific. But on the inside. Yesterday, on the left side of the hall, you were expecting a question concerning § 1, where you distinguish between the people who are born and those who have become citizens under other circumstances. Perhaps you list the reasons why you want to distinguish citizens by birth. What are the circumstances that put unborn citizens in a different situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U112	Thank you. First of all, I'm taking the liberty of taking us all to the same wavelength we were at yesterday. There were considerably fewer people in the hall yesterday than there were today. I also see people in this Chamber who would probably appreciate it if they could listen twice more or less to what I said yesterday, because slowly and twice, things get better on. I also see people in the hall who probably need to refresh their memory. You can test: if you remember better your first day of school than yesterday's session of the Riigikogu, you belong to this category. We're going through what we talked about yesterday because this hearing ended so unfortunately, it was halfway through, and then I'm finally going to answer Marko's question. We spoke yesterday about the fact that the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of Puustusmaa stopped speaking just before me by saying: the situation is strange and politicians should react in any way to the fact that we have a contradiction in the Constitution and the Citizenship Act. We have brought here this bill, one of which aims to eliminate the contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act. The Constitution says that citizenship at birth must not be taken away; the Citizenship Act at the same time forces people to choose whether to give up one citizenship or another. When it comes to a very diligent official, he can, in principle, pressure a person to give up his postpartum citizenship and there have been cases, people have given up their postpartum citizenship. Why we're doing this, why we're letting this be the case, is a question mark for me. The second question mark for me is why, for so long, we have not eliminated this contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act. In fact, I believe that this could be the task of the Riigikogu, not the right, but the task. If we see that there is a contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act or any other law standing on the lower ground, we will eliminate this contradiction. In this case, the natural course is not that we are going to change the Constitution, which also takes considerably more time and votes and several formations, but that we are going to adjust this law, in this case the Citizenship Act. Our proposal is that it should be done. We also talked about the change in the world, about 100,000 Estonians have moved out of Estonia ever since the Citizenship Act was passed. This situation is not comparable to the moment when the Citizenship Act was originally adopted as such. It does not take into account that such a large number of people live outside Estonia, and for practical reasons it may also be necessary to take the citizenship of the other country in which they live, which does not mean that they would not want to maintain their ties with Estonia, so that they would never want to come back here so that they would not want to be Estonian patriots. Let's talk about the short term, let's take the same examples. I didn't talk about it last night. My eyes opened last night. I watched what happened at the World Athletics Championship. Maicel [Maissel] Uibo or Maicel [Maikel] Uibo with whom is he married? Well, there's no Estonian girl, there's a foreign girl, a little tan too, and there's a few more on the right side of the hall to react. Similarly, Magnus Kirt, a girlfriend from Latvia met him at the airport. Our greatest heroes, young Estonians, have committed themselves to people from outside Estonia. When children are born into their family, they are faced with a choice. In the case of Maicel Uibo, I honestly do not know exactly what the Bahamian Citizenship Act looks like, it is perhaps the only citizenship law I have not yet studied. But if she has a child and that child happens to be born on American soil where Maicel is studying, then this child will automatically be an Estonian citizen at birth, an American citizen and probably also a citizen of the Bahamas, and then we will come and say that in the next World Championship, go run, jump, throw and push for Americans or anyone else, we will not want you into our citizenship, because we will not allow double citizenship. Another example of Estonia. On the right side of the hall there is an objection that we should not allow people to have multiple citizenships with the countries that we have listed here, who we believe share the same values with us, even more so, they are our very close allies. Last night I was watching on TV, Mr. Pulpland said these values could change. They can! But yesterday, while we were sitting here, our Foreign Minister met with the Secretary of State of the United States, and I didn't notice, but in fact he could have told the US Foreign Minister that we are your allies, we would like to get 1 billion from you, but if our Estonian people also have US citizenship, we consider them disloyal. We have already excelled in the fact that we have advised the American allies to move around here in the dark of night and in uniform, otherwise they might get beaten up. Where are we going to end up like this? I think it's self-encapsulation and we can't see the picture that's actually happened in the world. We also talked about the fact that very many countries that did not accept polycitizenship a few decades ago do so today. All our neighbours, Finland, Sweden, Latvia, all do it, there is no problem anywhere. We have another neighbor. He's about the same level as we are. It's like I'm gonna, but it's like I'm not gonna, 'cause it's crazy out there. In Russia, I'm telling you. According to the Russian law, in principle, it is as if double citizenship were allowed, but it does not allow double citizenship to civil servants and insists that everyone with double citizenship report it. If not, it will be punishable. If memory doesn't fool me, it's a penalty of 200,000 rubles or 400 hours of community service. Not so little. We come from a society where we were used to being intimidated by a foreign country. We were intimidated about going abroad or were not allowed to go abroad, and our biggest crime was when we went abroad and did not return from there. I also quoted to you yesterday Article 62 of the Estonian SSR Criminal Code, which was the first paragraph of the Special Part of the Criminal Code. Most important, the worst, most difficult crime, the betrayal of home country by refusing to return from abroad. Punishment of 10 to 15 years of imprisonment with expulsion or confiscation of property or death penalty. Do we want to go back there, or do we have this nostalgia of the consultative period? Many of us still remember that during the consultative period, the first falling in love and walking with Klooga on the beach after sundown could end with the border guard coming with his dog and his gun. Do we want to see if we still have fear of a foreign country, or do we want in any way to frighten those people, those Estonians who live abroad, for not coming back here for God's sake, rather take their citizenship? What is it that gets us there? I don't understand it. I need to see what we talked about last night. I also told you that I've been to a lot of schools. I've also been to a lot of schools talking about what kind of social order I come from and how well they've done, that they live here, that they live here now. How well humans have done in this sense. After all, we have fought for Estonia to be free to leave and come back here freely, and that Estonians, who have also left here, would feel loved. I have also recently met organisations from outside Estonia who also say that the only thing they are missing is that they also want to feel that Estonia, the official Estonia, loves them, respects them and misses them back here. I need a little pat on the shoulder. They do not want to exchange any EUR 100 million, which is now being collected here to buy, sell, exchange. They just want to feel loved here, respected, not considered as a foreigner just because they've left for different reasons. We have a minister in the government now, if no one remembers, I didn't mention his name yesterday, don't think you have a blackout, I didn't say that name yesterday in Tõnis Luka. He announced a few years ago that all those who have gone abroad were refugees of convenience. Come on, people, get some sense! We also talked for quite a while about the fact that a similar law already exists in Latvia, has been in force for years, and there are no problems with it. They have, in exactly the same way, taken as a basis for certain countries in a group of which they say that, in the case of their nationality, they do not require their nationality to be renounced but accept it. These countries are the countries of the European Union, the countries of the European Economic Community, Switzerland, Norway, the United States of America, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and Brazil. We have chosen the countries according to the fact that they have an Estonian community, that they share our values and that we are very likely to find a benevolent reception for their initiative. Then there was a talk about it yesterday, because Indrek Saar has also come to the hall, unfortunately you weren't there yesterday, because we have been here with a similar bill for a few years. The first time we came here with this bill was the Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, and the government's position was written by you, Indrek, because Andres wasn't at work and you were acting Minister of the Interior. Then you wrote a position on behalf of the government that was hysterical, to say the least. It stands out as saying that if this draft becomes a law, it creates a huge contradiction between different ethnic groups and groups of people, there will be dissatisfaction and street riots and demonstrations. It sounded pretty funny, but it sounds even funnier now that the same explanatory statement, or not an explanatory statement, has been accompanied by the government's position without any change. The bill has changed, the government's position remains unchanged. Now Mart Helme, who is the Minister of the Interior, an EKRE person, puts the same government's position on this bill and finds that there will be riots, class struggles, and I don't know whatever. I was just checking to see if Henn Põllamaas was behind me. Yes, it is. Henn just wrote a book on how social democracy means the return of the Inter front. Mart Helme supports Interrinde's views on citizenship issues! C'mon, people! What was not said yesterday was that our proposal is in fact quite the same line as our once-defined citizenship principles. It extends people's opportunities, it doesn't take away anything from anyone, it gives birth citizens certain rights. At the same time, there will be votes against both the right and left sides of the hall, and there will also be drafts that will actually straighten out Estonian citizenship policy and undermine these fundamentals in a more evil way. A way you shouldn't be doing. Let us be honest, these drafts that were in the hall last week, which concerned both the waiver of the language examination requirement and the granting of citizenship to minors living in Estonia without monitoring the birth of their parents' citizenship, are actually taking us close to the solution proposed by Edgar Savisaar in his time. It's a zero-citizenship solution. The difference between the current principle of citizenship and the zero-citizenship principle is that in the case of zero-citizenship, the Republic of Estonia was occupied, but a new independent Estonian SSR emerged, and after it ceased to exist, a new Republic of Estonia emerged, and no legitimacy, no succession. Just everyone who lived in Estonia at that time would have received Estonian citizenship. We chose the second principle, we chose the principle of its birth. This is also a bit of an answer to Marko's question, who in the meantime has grown tired of listening to me and gone away, but basically the difference, which is now also between citizenship at birth and naturalisation, that is originally the principle of our own choice of citizenship, and that is also due to where we come from and what has happened to Estonia in the meantime. The last thing that happened here yesterday was that Siim Valmar Kisler asked me to listen, you're now giving a list of countries, and then it only concerns the citizens of birth, that it doesn't eliminate all injustice. True, this bill, like most of the drafts and laws that we adopt here, will not eliminate all injustices from all over the world. We don't have a Miss Universe contest here where the Miss-designate says he wants the world to have peace and everyone to be full of food and no one to suffer. We can't solve all these things, but we can solve one problem with this law, one part of the problem. Once again, this law does not take anything away from anyone, it does nothing to harm anyone, but it gives birth citizens the opportunity not to feel forced to give up their birth citizenship, because Estonia has not been able to reconcile the Constitution and the Citizenship Act. But now, as far as Marko's question is concerned, since Marko left. As far as those paragraphs 3 and 1 are concerned, there is no contradiction between them. There is a very precise description of what we are changing, and in subsection 2 of this section the amendment has been introduced so that it should be read in the text of the law and in the explanatory memorandum, the answer is there. With regard to Marko's question about the people who were born and naturalised, I say once again, this is the principle from which we started our citizenship policy as a re-independence state. That is how it has been, so it has been, and the only explanation is that we have a neighbor next door who has never been very friendly to us historically. There we fear the possibility that people have double citizenship, maybe double loyalty, maybe they're really brainwashed. There's another country, another world of value that doesn't share the same views with us. Thank you. Now I have answered the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U113	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U114	Thank you. If I look at this bill, of course I can see it's creating more injustice. This creates a situation where some Estonian citizens have considerably more rights than others. How do you explain it now? A person who has come here during the Soviet period, who has lived in Estonia since 1991, or who now comes here from Uzbekistan, Russia, Armenia or, for example, Argentina, takes an Estonian language exam, takes a citizenship exam, gets citizenship, lives in Estonia, pays taxes, sends his children to the Estonian Defence Forces, suddenly he is unreliable. He doesn't get two citizenships, but the person whose grandmother may have been an Estonian citizen who thinks in Australia or the United States that, oh, I'll take that second passport again, then I'll be able to travel more easily in the European Union, like he's nice. He is a better citizen than the other who has lived in Estonia all the time and who gives his life to Estonia. How do you justify this injustice to yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U115	Thank you, Oudekki! I myself was ready to ask you why the Reform Party wants to pick the raisins out of the bread, so you said in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But basically, look at this thing with the look that this bill doesn't take anything away from anyone. It doesn't make anyone's situation any worse. Some people stay the same as they are now, some people get better. But it doesn't make anyone worse. As a result, I think, the question of whether this bill is unfair to anyone or not should not be very stuck. If we can slightly improve the situation of a group of people, for example, 100,000 people who have left Estonia, or of birth citizens, who have about one million, then I think we could do so, at the same time not at the expense of other groups. After all, there was a hint or a complaint from the EKRE that we do have a contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act, but we do not have a sanction if someone violates it. There was a little hint that there might be a sanction. I don't think there should be a sanction. This bill does not impose any sanctions. So, actually, no one's going to get worse in this situation, so many people are going to get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U116	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U117	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear waitress, In fact, we did have some debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this too, but if we were to approve this law this way today at one point, we would soon have four, soon eight citizenships, perhaps 16 moments. Please tell me which country such a person is loyal to. For me, citizenship certainly expresses loyalty to the state. Well, if you want to bring in a parallel with sports competitions here, what country would such a person have to compete for?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U118	Thank you. Theoretically, the world is as complicated as you describe it. Indeed, a person may have more citizenship than one, two, three, four, or five through changes in residence. This draft here is now trying to resolve the situation that the Estonian citizen of birth, in any other situation or in which he or she has citizenship, should not be faced with the choice that he or she should give up Estonian citizenship. Whether or not somebody is really very theoretically concerned about having 16 citizenships or not, it is not dependent on this law. These citizenships are created by people anyway. This law gives a person the opportunity to feel good and not to break the law, knowing that he is an Estonian citizen at birth, and he does not have to make a choice to give it up. That's the point of this law. Many countries do not, by the way, make any difference as to whether a person is born or otherwise granted citizenship. For example Sweden, there is no difference. At the same time, in Sweden, citizenship may be withdrawn from all persons if they have made false declarations when they are granted citizenship or if they are born outside Sweden and after that have had no ties with Sweden. Then you can take away their citizenship. Estonia has a different system. In Estonia, citizenship at birth and citizenship obtained by naturalisation are two different institutions. There's a little speciality built in there, yes, I agree with that, but that's where the greatest distinction is that, according to the constitution, you can't take birth citizenship away from anyone. The Citizenship Act currently puts people in front of this choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U119	Thank you. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Valdo! My question now concerns the operational side of possible double citizenship, based on national defence. We imagine a young man of 18 years of age being a citizen of both the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Finland. Both countries have compulsory military service. In which country does he go through this service? It's like the first half of the deal. The other party, if he undergoes military service in Estonia or also in Finland, automatically belongs to the wartime reserve of that country. The third aspect of the matter is that after the soldier's base course in military service, an oath is given to this particular country. How do you see here now? Is there a possible contradiction here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U121	Thank you. That's a good question. I will also bring Sweden as a parallel to that. Since I have acquaintances who have been in this situation or are currently in this situation, as you describe it, I can tell you what I have said to them for advice and what I know. Sweden, for example, offers a choice. If you do your military service in another country, they don't necessarily require you to do it there. My advice to these young people has been to do both. Be loyal to both countries, do your duty, if that is the case, do it, don't take the piece off. As far as loyalty and oath are concerned, I cannot well imagine that we will have a conflict between Finland and Estonia and that people really need to choose which side they are on now. But on that day, if that person really has to make that choice, he must give up the citizenship or loyalty he no longer knows. I hope we never have to survive this situation. In fact, Mr Puustusmaa just said on TV yesterday that perhaps the values of some countries will change. That day, that's the problem. This law is in our hands, we can change it, we can lift this country out of this list and say that your values no longer coincide with ours, we do not want our people to have the possibility of multiple citizenship with you, and they are not there. Similarly, this draft also states that the Estonian state may conclude bilateral agreements with other countries in addition to this list. We were also discussing this in the Commission, and I was actually a little bit of a how to say it? I will now go to the fact that I am quoting Mart Nutt, who is no longer among us, but who I have very much respected and whom I have discussed very much on this subject over the years, precisely on this very multi-citizenship bill. With Mardi, we actually got to the point where, of course, I talked to him all the time, based on this position, that under what conditions the Fatherland or the IRL could support this bill. Mart thought you might actually be in favour of it if this list of countries were significantly shorter. If we were to start with one, perhaps two or three of the largest countries with the Estonian community, such as Sweden, the United States, perhaps Canada, maybe New Zealand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U123	No, I'm not done yet. We would make such a law with them. I was willing to discuss it, too, but unfortunately Marti is no longer among us. I do not know if you have any suggestions for countries that should not be on this list, come with suggestions for improvement. Let this bill live. Show me once here that you're thinking a little bit with your head. Think about it. Now, after me, Oudekki Loone is coming to give a speech. Oudekki is a nice person, everyone, yesterday we shared a pencil, we have things in common, as you can see. However, Oudekki must tell you this revolutionary view that everything that is on the east side is not bad, and we cannot turn such a bill into a law as long as the same possibility of having multiple citizenship has not been given to Russian citizens either. Then you will go and vote against this bill because it has not been given the opportunity to have multiple citizenship for Russian citizens. Then think that you are suddenly done with those people who are actually opposed to this bill precisely because of what you should be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U124	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U125	Thank you. I am among the citizens of Estonia who are not born, and I do not have the problem that Marko Šorin and Oudekki Loone had. I think that native citizens and naturalised citizens could have certain differences. The problem is that I think the Estonian Citizenship Act and the Estonian Constitution are excellent and they do not need any change. What's the idea that birth citizenship can't be taken away? The country can't take away. But citizenship is not chains that a person cannot give up on himself. You said that they gave up for practical reasons and then said that you had to give up or even had to give up. Were they threatened with shooting, tortured? No, they were more comfortable that way. And when we say that it doesn't take anything away from anyone, it gives more to someone, it takes away from the Estonian state. This is one risk factor that I, as a proud Estonian citizen, do not want to accept.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U126	Thank you. If I understood the question correctly, first of all, you doubted whether there was a contradiction between the Citizenship Act and the Constitution. The Constitution says you can't take birth citizenship away from anyone. The Citizenship Act says that when a person turns 18, he or she must choose within three years which citizenship he or she will retain or which citizenship he or she will give up. This actually means that people are given an indirect guide to give up Estonian citizenship at birth if they are faced with this choice. Moreover, I am not a sympathizer of this issue of convenience. This story of the refugees of convenience sounds completely strange to me. But there are countries that actually allow multi-citizenship on the assumption that this other country, which also has citizenship, will also allow it. This country may, in turn, require you to give up Estonian citizenship at birth if you want to have our citizenship. Then this person is forced to give up the citizenship at birth because Estonia does not actually allow double citizenship, does not allow multiple citizenship. If, in this other country, whether it is Sweden or Finland or the United States of America, they know that Estonia permits it, then they do not demand to give up. This is very clear in Finland; it is very clear in Sweden. So it's not just a matter of comfort. Why do we find that a person living in Finland receives a child in Finland that his or her child will automatically develop... In Finland, if the mother is Finnish, the child will automatically have Finnish citizenship. If your father is Finn and your mother isn't, they must be married. If they live abroad, they must prove their paternity in Finland. But a child can develop double citizenship very easily. At the moment he goes to one country or another to formalise it, he will have a choice point. On the one hand, Finland can say that listen, but Estonia will not allow it, Estonia will tell it again, but you are 18, you have to choose within three years. Why the blindness to reality? I said this yesterday, I did not refer to it today, but Jüri Adams, many of whom respect one of the founders of the Constitution, as one of the foundations of Estonian law, was in favour of the same bill in the previous Riigikogu. There were not many drafts from the Reform Party, which he supported, but this bill was. Jüri Adams also said that the Citizenship Act should have been amended at least ten years ago. It grew old when Estonia joined the European Union and so many people left Estonia and live outside Estonia. Go anywhere abroad where there is an Estonian community, go to the Estonian House in New York and I guarantee you that in the first five minutes, some people will come to you and talk about multiple citizenship and whether or not to allow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U127	Thank you. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good performer! I don't agree with a couple of statements you made. First of all, I do not agree with the fact that granting citizenship is a small shoulder adjustment. No, giving citizenship is a serious legal step for both the citizen and the state that grants it. The other one I don't agree with if you point your finger at us and tell us we're getting married like we do. There's never been any mention of that. Those two things. I got the answer to Madis Milling, too, more or less, but it still bothers me when a person has two citizenships and has a need to identify himself under certain conditions because of values. Where does he put the point of solidarity? You must be a double-citizen. If it is necessary to say whether I support this country or another country if it is serious...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U129	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U130	You're saying, yes, you don't see this happening. But still, which way to stay?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U131	Thank you. Very good questions again. Unfortunately, in the first part, you misunderstood me. I didn't say giving citizenship meant patting on your shoulder. I said that those Estonians who live abroad feel that they are not much appreciated, that they feel that they are being blamed for living abroad. Whether citizenship is granted or not, they would just like to feel a shoulder pat on by the Estonian state and the feeling that they are still appreciated, loved, even though they live outside Estonia. As far as my choices are concerned, I have not had to make them. As you have noticed, Sweden and Estonia have a moving consensus on most things. I am a good example of how a person can develop two citizenships. I even have here, among these papers, the Presidium Order of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union since 1987, signed by Gromüko, which deprived me of Soviet citizenship. At that point, I remained a totally stateless person in 1987. In 1988, I received Swedish citizenship. I was taken as a Swedish citizen as a stateless person, it is also in the certificate of Swedish citizenship. It took a few more years. In 1988 no one spoke in Estonia, no one dreamed in Estonia, no one knew about any citizenship at birth in Estonia. Estonia was occupied. It took a few more years and suddenly it became clear that I was an Estonian citizen after birth, because my father was an Estonian citizen before 1939. That's how I got double citizenship. Why would I give up one of them in any way now? I will certainly not give up on Estonia, because it is still born and very sweet, but Swedish? I went to Sweden in 1984. In Soviet Estonia, I was a criminal criminal, a criminal case was brought against me, a possible punishment was the same § 62. Tarmo, if you move a little bit, I can look the questioner in the eye if I answer him. I could theoretically have been sentenced to death. Sweden gave me a political asylum, four years later also a citizenship. I am grateful to them for this and I am loyal to Estonia and Sweden as long as possible. In itself, there are certain advantages. During the sports competitions, Sweden has a very good hockey team, a much better football team than Estonia, and in these competitions I have more to be on someone's side than Estonia, which usually does not get to the finals.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U132	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I listened very carefully to your eloquence to the praise of this bill, and some things became much clearer to me in connection with the above. When I asked you in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs how you formulated the meaning of citizenship, you were very unable to answer in a way that would have valued citizenship. I was hoping that you had prepared for your presentation today, and you would talk about this in your vision of the nature and content of citizenship, but since you have not done so, I assume that you are not yet aware of it. But I'm asking a different question. You claimed that 100000 people of working capacity have left Estonia, which accounts for almost 10% of the Estonian population, and that part of the Estonian citizenship has then given up because the social benefits sent from that country better cover their needs. My question is why, for 17 years, have you not tried to prevent this kind of labour exodus and you are now trying to offer them this kind of candy before the elections are approaching?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U134	Elections, first of all, were just gone when you didn't notice. But as for your claim that I said that 100,000 people of working age have left Estonia, who have given up citizenship for better social benefits in another country, I have never said anything like that. Don't put words in my mouth, it's bullshit. Well, I guess I can tell you that if you'd listened carefully, I was talking about the nostalgia of the consultative period, which seems a little bit out of your story. How can you stop people getting out of here? We fought for Estonia to be free to go out of Estonia and to be free to come back here. Now we're there. So, what are we gonna do again here in § 62 and punish people with either imprisonment or forced labour at the Greater People's Manor? What do we do? We don't want to do these things. We want people to be free to go, free to come and feel good about it. We do not want any sanctions or penalties for this. Again, look around. As for, by the way, mixed marriages, someone here also said that you have not condemned. There are people among us who have written on social media about the black people that these niggers are talking about at this tram stop. How do you interpret that? Is it friendly, is it any kind of supportive and inspiring view of mixed marriages?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U135	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U136	Thank you. I don't know how to turn now. 'Honourable' is hard to say after what I heard you say in that speech chair of the Riigikogu. First of all, I want to say that I understand the dilemma that lies ahead of Estonia in relation to many citizens who would like to acquire double citizenship, but I also ask you to understand, as one of our good colleagues has said, that the speech chair of the Riigikogu is spoken not only of its own colleagues, but of the whole people and, accordingly, should act here in the Riigikogu Chair. I took out the letter you referred to in the position of the Government of the Republic on 6 June 2018 to which I have signed. This letter states that, above all, the position of the Government of the Republic is negative, as such changes require careful consideration and analysis in advance of the effects of the amendments to the law, in particular as regards the fulfilment of the purpose of the draft legislation. And then there are different examples of unequal treatment, etc. There is no syllable of civil unrest, and there is no hysteria in it, as you said. So you have just lied in the Riigikogu Chair, and I am very sorry about that. Nor is the fact that you speculate and compare your colleagues here with the Interrinde, building on the propaganda work of Henn Põllea. This is, in my opinion, extremely ugly, and I hope you find a reason to apologize.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U137	Let's start from the back end. I did not compare you, I said that the EKRE, who actually thinks you are Interrinne, currently supports your proposals. I don't share their point of view, I never said that. But as for your claim that I lied, read this letter, Indrek! I'll read him to you, don't bother. Tell me what I'm going to read to you, whether it's the things I described before or not. 'By allowing multiple citizenship to part of Estonian citizens and leaving the second part aside, it causes social tension, injustice and confrontation, which in turn significantly increases the threat to public order and the security of the state. ' Is it a nice quote? Is this about civil unrest and state security? You won't? No 'The Government of the Republic estimates that the broad-based security implications are the starting point, among other things... 'Blah, blah, blah. And 'persons are rightly exposed to the political and social influences of their countries of nationality and thus increase the risk of security'. So can you perhaps explain to me now which countries from this list that we have been given here will increase the security risk to Estonia if we allow multi-citizenship? Is it the United States? Is that Sweden? Is it Finland? Latvia? Name one! And before you ever call me a liar again, read the things you wrote properly and then come and explain! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U138	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U139	Thank you. Mr President, thank you very much. I don't know if you really don't understand or if you're just pretending. If the Republic of Estonia does not have the right to withdraw citizenship from the citizen at birth and is given the choice of which nationality it prefers, is there some form of repression by the state or, on the contrary, is there an opportunity to choose? If there was talk of a citizenship oath, then if you know for sure that you know a U.S. oath of citizenship, then it says that you have to be loyal to the United States and only to the United States. And now you asked me to name what double citizenship of countries is potentially dangerous to Estonia. I'd say any country.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U140	Thank you. Well, I feel much bolder when you do, because I am not afraid of the countries that are on this list, and I am not afraid that people who have the citizenship of these countries would pose any security risk to Estonia. As far as the American oath of citizenship is concerned, it is not in the word that it is only for the United States. To the United States, yes. When it comes to making people choose, it is what the principle says that people should not be made to choose. You can't take birth citizenship away from anyone, but the citizenship law makes them choose. That's the contradiction. [[M. Lotman comments from the floor.]] But you can't keep asking if you don't turn on the microphone. I tried to explain to you exactly that there is a contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act: the Citizenship Act says that he should give up one or the other within three years, the Constitution says that he cannot take away the citizenship at birth.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U141	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! As we know, we will be discussing our foreign policy development plan in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and soon also in this Chamber, and it will highlight the very important role played by the Estonian and Estonian communities, the global community in achieving our foreign policy and economic objectives. I, too, can say from my experience as an entrepreneur that I always benefited from our countrymen who live temporarily or permanently in other countries when operating in target markets. How do you feel about how your passing through the draft could help or affect the achievement of the objectives of our foreign policy development plan? Does it help with that, is it neutral in this respect, is it somehow preventing it? What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U143	I do not think that, in itself, this will certainly prevent, probably help even in the long term. I have met the same people, Estonians living abroad, who have just visited Estonia in connection with the global Estonian programme and talked about their thoughts and concerns. They're 100% behind this bill, absolutely. These are the quotations that I have pointed out here that they expect more respect, they expect them to feel that they are still loved and respected, even though they live outside Estonia. And one way to show it to them is that they are not put in front of a choice, that they have to give up their citizenship. They don't want to do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U144	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U145	Thank you. I was the one who urged such a conservative line in making this draft, so that we did not unduly expand the list of countries with which the citizens of birth are allowed to double citizenship. But what else has been identified during this procedure? The questions from this hall are always that there's always this dilemma to choose from. What are these offers, where there is such a situation that the list of these countries requires either side to be chosen and has some national meaning? Where do these choices have any national meaning, which side is chosen in addition to the citizenship of the birth by allowing another nationality?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U146	In itself, if we go to such very large and important loyalty-based choices, we have actually put together a list of countries for which there should not be such a choice, there should not be such a conflict, such a choice should not be. People could peacefully have multiple citizenship with the countries on this list. If you have any views on these countries, we will finish our first reading, propose a correction, we will discuss. As regards practical matters, why people take on double citizenship or multiple citizenship at all, well, first of all, I already said yesterday that in fact, the possibilities and circumstances of getting involved in this situation are innumerable and impossible to foresee or read all of them. But when it comes to practical matters, the person who lives in another country is working in another country, working in another country, also needs an identity certificate for that country. He needs it because he lives there now. But if we want this person to live there for as long as possible, but maybe someday he would like to come back to Estonia and he would feel welcome and he can come here without complications, then we could give him the chance that he will retain his Estonian citizenship and that in other countries it is also known that Estonia accepts it. By the way, this bill also provides an opportunity for people who have already been forced to give up their birth citizenship to return it to a simplified procedure. Yesterday, I also spoke about the fact that in recent years we really have the fact that one of the questioners referred to the pre-election issues of the Estonians of Abkhazia, we always get very acute on the wallpaper before the elections. There have been some proposals from the Home Affairs Ministers to grant citizenship to someone there, and there has been a proposal, and now the latter was that of two-year passports. As long as the election is over. In fact, our draft also solves the issues of the birth of the Estonians in Abkhazia for them very simply, very clearly and very clearly. We should no longer deal with any exceptions, any strange, legally incompetent solutions, so that the birth citizenship of the Estonians in Abkhazia is recognised and existing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U147	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U148	Thank you very much. There are basically two ways in which the Institute of Citizenship can be viewed. In the same way, this institute should be valuable, dignified, to bind the citizen and the country, so that it is desirable, such a good and estimable thing. The second option is to think about citizenship, that it's like a treat today I'm gonna wear one, tomorrow I'm gonna put the other on. We realize now that you can even put up to 16 of them on, then we'll take one off again, how good is it? So I understand that the Reform Party has basically chosen a path towards weakening the Institute of Citizenship, so that it would be such a simple thing, perhaps once only necessary for voting, or I do not know why, but that it would be as weak as possible. All the more so since it has actually been said repeatedly here that Estonian citizenship, citizenship at birth, cannot be taken away anyway, the following vector is added, that this bill stands up for the interests of other countries, not for the interests of the Estonian state, because Estonian citizenship cannot be taken away anyway. We are simply giving additional opportunities to become another third-country national. Here's a question for you, good Valdo, and answer me quite honestly. If tomorrow we have a war between Sweden and Estonia, which weapon will you take?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U149	That was the fruit of a special thought that gave rise to the question. But I'd start your question from the beginning. Your claims that the Reform Party is diluting the concept of citizenship or devaluations it as you put it. I don't want to get into this debate where I say what you're doing, but now I'm gonna get there. I called it that before. Under the leadership and support of the EKRE, changes to the Citizenship Act are currently being carried out, with which we are actually approaching this version of zero citizenship, which some people were in favour of during Estonia's restoration, but these were only a few, the majority supported this concept, which we are currently in force, and this draft law is in line with this concept. We do not bring in the possibility of obtaining Estonian citizenship under any simplified procedure, without complying with language requirements, without having any succession. We give Estonian citizens after birth the opportunity to be a citizen of another country, while at the same time avoiding the dilemma that they may have to give up Estonian citizenship. We'll give it a chance. We're not taking anything away from anyone, we're giving people, a group of people, something more. As far as the Swedish and Estonian wars are concerned, that was a good question, but then I will give up Swedish citizenship and start fighting on the Estonian side. Even Leo Kunna is clapping. Thank you. But I really hope I never get in that situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U150	Thank you. Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U151	Thank you very much, Chairman. Good waitress! You have said that you have been dealing with this issue since 2011 and that the Fatherland has been in your way to solve this problem, otherwise you would have actually gotten it over with. You also reminded me of my good companion, Mart Nutt, who seemed to give you good advice. I very much doubt that because Mart did not share such advice once in the group, and he was actually the man who said that a law such as the Citizenship Act is not being played. But here's my question. If we now play theoretically so that we can ever enforce the law, how can we avoid Russia attacking us and accusing us of xenophobia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U152	Thank you. Good Heiki, please, don't believe for a second that I would make something up or lie about conversations with the missing Mart Nut. Mart was never a fiery sympathizer to this bill, I never said that. But Mart told me somewhere a year ago, we talked to him about it, and then he said exactly what I described earlier, so that if we went on with a smaller number of countries, perhaps it would be possible to get support from the Patriotic League, because Mart too saw that the world had changed. And for Mardi, Jüri Adams was also a great authority. The world has changed. Since this citizenship law was passed, the world has opened up for Estonians and we are no longer in exactly the same situation as we were then. Legislation must reflect the reality of the situation around us. Was there another question? Oh, Russia, xenophobia. I don't think we should think about it. We should not set our steps and actions according to what Russia thinks or does not think of us. Russia still thinks we're so-and-so, no matter what we do. Name me a country in the neighbourhood of Russia who would find that Russia has been a good neighbour to them. You won't find a country like this. So why should we strive for an exception?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U153	Thank you. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U154	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Indeed, I fully agree with you, the borders are wide open, and many of our young people have married foreigners. I also see that if the child is born in Estonia, for example, the mother is Estonian, the father is a citizen of the European Union, the child receives Estonian citizenship, but let's say that the father is French for example and he would like his child to have French citizenship. Does this bill deal with this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U155	That's the bill that's working on this problem, if I understand what you mean. [[H. Pikhof will explain the floor.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I described the fact that, in principle, the child is able to obtain three citizenships because of the coincidence of circumstances. If both parents are blood-related, from countries that share citizenship, but the child is born in a country that shares citizenship on a territorial basis, such as the United States, then it may happen that Estonia and I brought here the Bahamas, for example, I do not know the Bahamian Citizenship Act, but the child of an Estonian-Bahamian couple who is born in America may have three citizenships.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U156	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U157	Thank you very much. Good waitress! It is also a question of whether, during the preparation and discussions of this draft, it has also been discussed whether, for people working in certain occupations or in certain organisations, in certain public authorities, consideration could be given in the future, or whether consideration should be given to taking the aspect of citizenship into account if they have several citizenships. For example, do you see a problem when in state agencies such as the Defence Police Board, the Information Board, their management, important roles in the Estonian Defence Forces, there are people who have the nationality of several states at the same time, or is that not a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U158	Thank you. On the one hand, this list of countries, which we have also written in this draft, could actually rule out the suspicion of people's disloyalty, because that loyalty does not conflict with each other there. I would be prepared to go to a certain point in your thinking if I did not know that this is exactly what Russia is thinking. And if Russia thinks this way, in Russia, civil servants are banned from double citizenship, then I cannot agree with you in any way. I think Russia already thinks wrong about most things by default. In case this is some part of the vision and will of this hall, let's finish reading the first reading, propose a correction, let's discuss. But I say that we have chosen these countries so carefully that I do not believe that this is a problem. I do not believe that we have a problem with people who are American and Estonian citizens, that they are somehow dangerous or disloyal to Estonia. But maybe in certain occupations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U159	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U160	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I can call myself such an old ERSP wolf, and in my spiritual father's citizenship policy, Kaino Oja was already saying that citizenship is not given or given, but is being transferred from one citizenship to another. Does your bill now strengthen this idea or rather straighten it out?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U161	The idea we have proposed reflects today's situation, which was not there at the time when such a sentence was said about the transition. Thank you. Today, the world is just different.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U162	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please! No? Then please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U163	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Since we are not discussing this subject for the first time, I am asking the same question again in a slightly different wording. According to your bill, both you and I could be in the future if this law was adopted by double citizens of Estonia and Sweden. Such a right would be created and the incompatibility between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act would have been eliminated. Now, for example, my colleague, Korobenik, just as an arbitrary example to take in this very hall, he would not have the right to do so. You talked about how the people of Estonia who live elsewhere are of value to the Estonian state and society and we should not let them out of Estonian citizenship lightly. Do you think you are more valuable to the Estonian state than, for example, Mr Korobeinik?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U164	Thank you. Good question. If I were very selfish, I'd say, of course, I'm your shirt is the closest to the flesh, but I'm not. Once again, I will respond in the same way as I have said before that Andrei will not miss anything if this bill becomes a law. It's really gonna happen that you and I are gonna get something more, but Andrei isn't gonna miss anything. Therefore, neither the bill nor the law is unfair. It won't take anything away from him. This law, pay attention, will also provide an opportunity to conclude bilateral agreements in the future. This law also provides an opportunity in the future when different coalitions and governments emerge, to go another way and to make a new law. This law is not some finally stoned truth, like everything else, but it gives Estonian citizens born a chance to avoid getting into a situation where they have to choose to give up Estonian citizenship after birth. That's what it does. This provides an opportunity for those who have already given up to restore citizenship in a simplified way, and it provides an opportunity for the people of Abkhazia to re-establish or even not to re-establish, but to legalise their native Estonian citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U165	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U166	Another technical question. In fact, I still stress that an Estonian citizen should not give up the citizenship at birth; this is only possible if the citizen wants to do so. That is why we have been told repeatedly that, in fact, our country does not have any means of coercion for this, and people know it. But actually, the question is different. You said before, good Valdo, you've got this list of countries well thought out. We have also referred to some values and there was one such word, I do not know exactly how to say it, but it was somehow that we can also supplement this list, if you need to, don't worry, if you need to, we'll put it on the list, we'll discuss it, and then we can also give some people a chance to have citizenship. But what if it's the other way around? I say completely theoretically, is Estonian-Guyana citizenship, now it has two possibilities and now these values disappear from behind. Will Estonia now in any way force this law to give up this second citizenship because the values of this other country of citizenship no longer match ours? Or how is this mechanism supposed to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U167	Thank you. You weren't here at first when I said I saw your TV interview last night, and you actually raised the same question. I have already said that in the event that there really should be a country on this list that we think is still going towards the forest, we will remove it from this list and change the law, say that with this country we will not accept the multiple citizenship of Estonian citizens after birth. But you started your question by saying, as I say, that there is a contradiction with the Constitution, that there really is nothing much. Yesterday you yourself finished your presentation with words: the situation is strange and politicians should do something. I'm here now and I am. Back me up!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U168	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U169	Thank you. My second question, I think, is even less a question, rather a reply to your first answer to that bad answer. It's bad because it's kind of weird to say that, well, what's there to say, Andrei doesn't lose anything, I just win something more, but he doesn't. With similar logic, it could be said that if the Riigikogu, for example, passed a law according to which, as a birth-citizen, I would receive twice the child's child's child's child's child's child's child's child's child's child's child's child's child's child's child's benefit could be said, but he doesn't lose anything, so it's okay, it's okay. Actually, it's not. The principle of equal treatment also applies to the granting of new rights. When granting new rights, people in an equal position should be treated equally; differences should not be arbitrary. To say that since you are not getting any worse, we do not have to think about it at all, I do not think it is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U170	Thank you, Evgeny! It really sounded in itself that we are ashamed or eyes out of our heads because we want to bring the Estonian Constitution into line with the Citizenship Act. We already have this difference -- you think it's unfair -- we think there's a difference in citizenship policy. There is a difference between citizenship at birth and citizenship acquired by naturalisation. The biggest difference is that birth citizenship cannot be withdrawn according to the Constitution. The Citizenship Act leaves the ends open, you admitted it yourself. We want to eliminate this contradiction. This injustice, which you describe as great injustice, already exists in Estonia, it does not increase or diminish its draft or law. If that's what you think is injustice, fine. In my opinion, he is simply a certain difference between the principles of citizenship law and citizenship because of where we come from, the history our country has, the demographic situation in our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U171	Thank you. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U172	Thank you. Good Valdo! This subject speaks to me personally and touches me very strongly. I have lived in almost half of the United States and Luxembourg for just over nine years. These are two very different Estonian communities. I have seen in the United States how, through generations, the Estonian community, where more and more mixed marriages have come, stood for these children to learn Estonian, know Estonian history, share Estonian values. Similarly in Luxembourg, where there is a much younger community, but where there are also very many mixed marriages. It is precisely this problem that we are solving with this bill, we are solving the real problem of people, to which Ülle Madise also referred. Please advise me if it should happen now that the Riigikogu is unable to take a position in support of this issue, how I look these people in the eye and what I say to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U173	Good question. In fact, the honest answer would then be that the majority of the Riigikogu does not care about them, cares about their problem, and that is precisely the situation they feel they are not considered to be full Estonian citizens because they do not live in Estonia. I think it's a lie. It is very easy for us to eliminate this sense of injustice; it is very easy for us to eliminate this contradiction between the Constitution and the Citizenship Act. It's in our hands. So I only call on the Riigikogu to act according to its conscience and reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U174	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U175	Thank you. You can probably live without looking people in the eye. But it's complicated if you don't understand. There's one thing I don't understand here. Completely reasonable people are talking about some kind of unequal treatment on the issue of citizenship. I think citizenship is a very unequal institute at all. It brings together some common values in political terms, actually separates countries among themselves, and in that sense it is natural to delimitate. But maybe in the course of this debate you have become clearer, so why is this unequal treatment harmful to the Estonian state? So can we no longer classify countries as those who share common values with us and as different that we should allow double citizenship on the basis of the debates you have held to all those who clearly do not share common values with us and are also unfriendly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U176	Thank you. Well, until recently, yes, there was a feeling that this hall was divided into two. One party who wants us to give to everyone and then it is fair, and the other party who says that let's not give because then maybe it's the country that's hostile to us that gets close to this double citizenship. But now I see that these two extreme sides of the halls have somehow swam together, and they both think that we should approach the nullity option. I have already referred to the drafts that have been under discussion here the week before, where language requirements are relaxed, the requirements are relaxed on how to become an Estonian citizen and, at the same time, this bill cannot be supported, which in fact gives Estonian citizens after birth the opportunity to preserve their citizenship. Dear people! Somewhere, the price of staying in the government has suddenly gone too high. You're actually betraying your constituents. I hope they will now follow this debate and share my point of view.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U177	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Our good colleague, Paul Puustusmaa, asked you a very interesting question, which actually reveals the very weakness of this bill. If, for example, a war broke out between Sweden and Estonia, you could not answer the question immediately. You slowed down with this answer for quite a long time and finally, in response to the wish of this hall, you said that you were fighting for Estonia and giving up Swedish citizenship. But the nature of the whole thing is not a momentary emotion, but the nature of the matter is that double citizenship poses a threat to the loyalty of the Estonian state. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U179	Absolutely not. Absolutely not, because this list of countries here, which we have put in the draft, name me one of those countries where you really feel that the citizen of this country is a threat to the Estonian state; the citizen of this country is already conditionally or unconditionally disloyal to the Estonian state. There's no such country on this list. If you find one, propose a correction and say that you think this and this country do not fit in here, then we will discuss it. But to state here that when Paul answered the question of Puustusmaa, all this conflict came out and I thought of such choices for a long time, they could not be made easily. But I myself answered Paul Puustusmaa as well, which is actually a logical continuation of the question that if, in my opinion, we are going to go to a little absurd theater in May now that we are going to discuss the war between Estonia and Sweden here, the war against each other, but if there really is a conflict, then I would like the Riigikogu to be the first body to react to it, to take the same law that has become the law at that point, and make an amendment and say that Swedish citizenship cannot be owned by Estonian citizens. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U180	Thank you. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U181	Thank you, good manager. Good Valdo! I have to do it the other way around. I have some people who live in Siberia or lived in Siberia, Estonians who were sent out there once, whose parents were shot, who came and some think they're gonna get away with an optimist certificate, where there is a seal of the Estonian state and a confirmation from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that he is coming to live here, but they are told that this certificate will be taken to the Estonian National Museum or somewhere else, because according to Kalin's order it was a single year and no more. They are told that they are from the wrong country, they have been in Russia, they do not receive Estonian citizenship. They ask if this law will help, but I say no, because you have lived in the wrong place, this certificate will not help you, despite the seals and letters of the Estonian state and the fact that you have Estonian roots will not help you. They were even told when he said he was from Konguta, that Konguta was in India. Well, what do we do with this? What do you want me to say to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U182	Yes, Aadu, it is a great question in itself, but you know better than I do, because you are a historian, that this acquisition of citizenship was valid for those people who did not live in the Russian Federation, the territory of the Russian state was defined as this at the time, and who then settled in Estonia for one or two years. [[A. Black is talking about the hall.]] It was also Estonia. I am not going to argue with you here; we, in preparation for this draft ourselves, also reviewed the citizenship acquired under the option, and we formulated it so that it would solve the problem of Estonian birth citizens living in Abkhazia. And there was just the difference between whether or not they lived in Russian territory. So, unfortunately, yes, it doesn't help if they've lived in Russia. But you know for yourself how our historical relations with Russia have been and sometimes such transnational relations transcend the interests of individuals.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U183	Thank you. It seems, yes, yet one more question came up. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good remote speaker! Let me ask you briefly: do I understand correctly that you have both Estonian and Swedish citizenship today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U185	Yet, there is one question that shows that man has quite rightly understood the matter. That's right, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U186	Question's over. Thank you. Should have put a number of questions together in a row then. But it seems that there are no more questions for the speaker. Thank you to the author of this draft. Next, Oudekki Loone, representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has been invited to speak on the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U187	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 23 September inclusive. The presentation was presented by Valdo Randpere on behalf of the performers and commented by Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior. Valdo Randpere gave more or less the same overview as he has done twice in this Chamber. I don't think I'm gonna do it again for the third time. Mr Helme stressed that the Government of the Republic had also delivered its opinion in writing to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The main arguments are that multi-citizenship also involves multiple benefits and rights for the person, and people who have only Estonian citizenship are then at a disadvantage. In addition, Mart Helme found that those citizens who are born who, although eligible for citizenship in another country, are not on the list of countries authorised by the draft or have not entered into an agreement, would also be disadvantaged. Mart Helme called it the construction of a multi-storey citizenship house, where on the ground floor there are Estonian citizens who have no right to double citizenship at all. He also asked what to do with those Estonians living in Moscow who visit Estonian associations and feel that Estonia is important and special to them, but they are not born with citizenship, some do not speak Estonian, but they also have connections. Right now, we're just leaving some people out. He said that the current legislation does not really deprive people of citizenship, it allows people to choose, and it is the person who makes his choice by leaving Estonia. Mart Helme found that, of course, there are a number of ways to solve the problems associated with the movement of people. The current coalition has also initiated the Global Estonia programme to keep Estonians more in touch with its country. In Mart Helme's view, the amendment of the Citizenship Act to address the problem of external communities is the worst option. To this was added by Officer Ruth Annus, that if double citizenship is currently uniformly prohibited for all groups of persons, simply the citizens of birth must make a choice, then the draft will create several categories for the citizens of birth. One of the legal double citizens, the other being illegally double citizens, the third being simply born or naturalised citizens. When different groups are granted different rights, it must have a well-thought-out legitimate purpose, why it is done, what value it protects. In the case of nationality, both the Constitution and international law must certainly be followed very closely. When we make different treatment rules, it must be understandable to everyone. Valdo Randpere commented on the fact that Canadian and Swedish Estonians who participate in the Global Estonia programme allegedly own all double citizenship and strongly support this draft. Then there was a debate about whether the Constitution and the Citizenship Act were in conflict. This debate sounded more or less the same in this Chamber. In addition, Taavi Rõivas mentioned that outside Estonians are making an effort to preserve Estonia so that children can speak Estonian. He felt that, in a pragmatic way, people would also be more clever to be a citizen of a larger country, because then the person would feel more confident, and he felt that security might be better guaranteed if Estonians had American citizens' passports. The garment stressed that for him the moral problem was that people had to choose which nationality they would retain. The country has defined the list with countries with which Estonia does not intend to enter into conflict. Oudekki Loone said that he was in favour of the idea of double citizenship, but if it is promised to everyone that people who belong to Estonian society in Moscow or Estonian society in New York should be treated the same way. The draft gives fewer rights to people who have taken a citizenship exam, lived in Estonia and know the country of Estonia than to people who have been born abroad. Secondly, he asked the performers what the list of countries was justified on. The report referred to the word 'NATO'. Was NATO not mentioned because Turkey can protect Estonia there, but we still cannot afford double citizenship with them for some reason. So they're planning to fight him? Valdo Randpere explained that it was pragmatically chosen to find the support of as many other parties in the Riigikogu as possible, and that is why these countries were chosen. He felt that if the Reform Party had come up with a draft saying that everyone could have double citizenship, the minister would have oppressed security issues, and the Fatherland Party would have been unable to agree to such a draft. Valdo Randpere found that the Reform Party wanted this draft to help make the first step towards creating double citizenship. The question also arose as to how many people have Estonian roots in different countries. In this regard, the Ministry of the Interior sent a separate written reply, which said that it is estimated that it is difficult to determine the number of refugees or persons of Estonian origin in general. According to the 2013 figures, the countries with the largest number of foreign Estonians are over 20000 people, Finland, Russia, the United States and Canada, and then followed by about 15000 persons, Sweden, Great Britain and Australia. To date, this type of statistics is no longer being updated. What currently exists at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is information about Estonian citizens who have a foreign address on the register, and these are over 50000 in Finland, over 18000 in Russia, over 18000 in Great Britain, 9000 in Germany, 5000 in Sweden, 4700 in Sweden. These are the larger countries that could be affected. Mart Helme also found that this bill is racist because different groups of citizens are formed and that when it comes to double citizenship, it should be universal. Ruth Annus added that the list of countries should take into account the foreign policy dimension that, for the countries outlined in the draft, the question is why they are there, and certainly other countries will be asking why they are not on this list. The question also arose as to whether this bill was only about double citizenship or also about polycitizenship. However, the drafters considered that only double citizenship was envisaged here. Mart Helme concluded that by legitimizing double citizenship, the state of Estonia, its fundamental principles, its identity, the responsibilities of Estonian citizens towards the Estonian state will begin to be eliminated, and in the end no one will understand where it belongs. In the votes, the Commission took three decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 8 October 2019, which was adopted by consensus. Secondly, to appoint Oudekki Loone, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, also adopted by consensus, and thirdly, to propose that the draft be rejected. Five members voted in favour: Kalle Grünthal, Heiki Hepner, Andrei Korobeinik, Oudekki Loone and Paul Puustusmaa and against three members: Erkki Keldo, Valdo Randpere and Taavi Rõivas. One remained neutral, Lauri West Forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U188	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Let's open the political group negotiations. First of all, Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U189	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the third time, in the last few years, that the Reform Party is putting in essentially the same draft. This is also the third time that I will answer with essentially the same arguments, but much of our colleagues who are new in the Riigikogu have not heard them. In 2013, the Ministry of the Interior carried out a dual-citizenship impact analysis, the conclusion of which was unambiguously negative, as it poses a significant security threat. It is precisely this analysis that underpins his speech. Elsewhere, double citizenship is predominantly applied in limited cases. For example, if it comes from parents of different nationalities. Double citizenship is not common, and there are clear reasons for it. For example, after negative experiences, the Netherlands has made double citizenship unacceptable again. Estonian citizenship policy has been based on conservative principles. The reform party's bill turns it on its head. The analysis found that the claim that double citizenship would encourage contacts with emigrated Estonians has not been proven, it is emotional dim. The Estonian passport can be handled perfectly anywhere. Introducing a list of permitted countries will not solve the problem that our citizens may also become citizens of some countries that are hostile to us. It should be taken into account that a number of European Union or other countries also allow double citizenship with third countries. Thus, for example, Russia's double citizenship is legalised through an intermediary. Is that the goal? By giving birth citizens the right to be nationals of another country, we ourselves open them up to the influence of other countries. Since loyalty is indivisible, there is a conflict, especially when another country has different interests. Individuals with double nationality have obligations to several countries. With double citizenship, we give citizens of other countries access to the highest power of the Republic of Estonia. Even if it is a friendly country, each country has its own interests, which can be completely contradictory. The question is which country's interests, for example, does such a member of the Riigikogu follow in voting. What about a minister or a diplomat if he negotiates with a country whose nationality he also has? What country is protected by such a general, a soldier, or a Special Branch agent? How to avoid leakage of state secrets? The author of the bill did not have any answers to this. The Constitution states that Estonia also protects its citizens abroad. Double citizenship can create tensions in relations between countries. For example, if a person wants diplomatic protection against another country, being both citizens. The regularisation of double citizenship also places a heavy additional burden on the PBA, the kapo, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence and requires large and costly IT developments in the population register, the database of identity documents, the register of refusals of entry and the database of persons who have obtained, restored or lost citizenship. Agreements must be concluded with many countries for the exchange of data on the nationality of persons, etc. In 2013, a one-off cost of up to EUR 3 million and fixed costs of up to EUR 1 million per year were estimated. Today, these sums are many times greater. Yes, we have individuals who have double citizenship here in the Riigikogu. However, having an illegal double citizenship cannot be a reason to legitimise it. It is natural for a person to make a choice as to which country his fatherland is. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U190	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U191	The final conclusion of the analysis reads: 'Because there is no need under international law and the Constitution to legitimise double citizenship, it would be contrary to a consistent citizenship policy and would lead to important security effects, both broad and direct, there is no reasonable reason to legitimise double citizenship in Estonia. ' It is our duty to stand up for the interests of Estonia. It must therefore be said that the proposal of the Reform Party clearly glows through someone else's ears. We hope that the people who left this place will still come home. However, as regards the optants, or persons who left Russia before the Republic of Estonia was created, they had the opportunity to apply for citizenship after the conclusion of the Tartu Peace Treaty, which said that the optants were obliged to leave Russia during the year, but it was not stipulated that failure would result in the loss of nationality. Unfortunately, thousands of Estonians were unable to come here because of obstacles to the Soviet Union. In 1922, therefore, the Minister of the Interior Einbund decided to consider all opponents who had not travelled from Russia to be Estonian citizenship. In 2002 the Administrative Court also confirmed that all successors of the optants must be considered Estonian citizens. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. However, for some reason the PBGB took the view that if the person did not settle in Estonia, he did not become an Estonian citizen. The optants of the PBGB and their offspring were no longer considered to be born citizens and even began to be taken away from those who received citizenship. This requirement is not due either to the Tartu Peace Treaty or to any other document. People whose ancestors did not live in Russia at the time, such as the Estonians of Abkhazia, who lived in Georgia, which was a country recognised by Estonia, which was not affected by the Tartu Peace Treaty. About a thousand Estonians from Abkhazia have arrived here, about three hundred are still there. The Reform Party presented its draft as if to protect these optants and their descendants and the Estonians of Abkhazia, but they do not really need this protection because they have the right to citizenship at birth, only the former practice must be followed. The Chancellor of Justice has also expressed the same position. Finally, the Estonian Conservative People's Party does not support double citizenship in this context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U192	Thank you. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The last sentence of the previous speaker could have been concluded with the wording that, although the EKRE supports the sharing of citizenship without examination or application. In this sense, it is symptomatic that the party that has just defended the draft coalition, which basically opens doors without a declaration of intent and without effort to divide citizenship, is at once opposed to the multi-citizenship of the countries that share value. But I guess this guy is the kind of guy who's been chopping the same thing for years, he's still with his back, he's not listening to what's being answered, and he's even proud that he's said the same thing for the fifth time and doesn't take any arguments into account. We'll take it. When we prepared this draft, we also worked closely with the Ministry of the Interior, we used more memos than Henn Põlluaas probably has, and also this 2013 analysis. I remember this very well, and it was not in the context of the bill, but it was double citizenship as such. In an in-depth consultation with the author of this memo, but in general with the Ministry of the Interior, he agreed that if double citizenship were to be limited to countries with which we have friendships, there would be no risks that this paper described. But, of course, Henn Põllea doesn't give a shit. He is also consistent in this respect, however, not only because he is not in the debate, but also because we only have an Estonian state and then other countries with whom we have a conflict all the time. This kind of euroscepticism is then vividly expressed on a practical subject. It is difficult to argue with this in the sense that, even if Finland, Sweden, I believe that France is inherently with us in some kind of conflict where a citizen has to choose which side of a matter of national importance at all times, or if there is nothing, then you are alone. The question is, how long will you be there if you feel alone all the time and don't cooperate with anyone? But now we have created a new situation with this text, we have mentioned countries with which we share enough values that we allow this national institute by both countries or by several countries. There have been claims here, as if citizens were treated differently, but unfortunately, this concept of birth-citizen has still been taken from the Constitution, and we are not going to challenge that. Postpartum citizens are positively discriminated against; according to the constitution, they have some other rights. I am not satisfied with the statement that the sentence in the Constitution is stupid, as one of the opponents said to me during this intermission. The Constitution is our wisdom, which we must rely on, and there is nothing to argue about. So we are still in international cooperation with these countries, closer cooperation from the point of view of common interests, and there are no claims in this Chamber, although I also asked questions in this direction where these interests could go into conflict. Indeed, we have been at war with Sweden, but it has been a while now, and in the meantime, we have made up for it, and in the near future, there is no real war planned with Sweden. So if any of these questions come up, honestly, don't ask me, ask me something else. Optant theme. Of course, the subject of the optants is one... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U194	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U195	...which must be treated with the utmost sensitivity, but we have obtained this analysis through the Ministry of the Interior. This analysis describes how this option agreement was concluded in the past. It was, however, conscious of limiting their number that Estonian citizenship could be chosen for a certain time and never had the purpose that it could be endless and the number of these people unlimited. Those who have distanced themselves from Estonia in their values and also geographically distant from Estonia are, however, in some ways already outside this circle in terms of citizenship. This has been a debate as to why the Republic of Estonia has not been open to the optimists indefinitely before and after the war. Indeed, there may be a problem of loyalty, and in 1940 it was actually confirmed. This law, of course, discourages such value conflicts, such choices between one's own and another's own, between one's side and one's opposition. That is why this list of countries is what it is and the meaning of the law is what it is. Those born-born citizens who have come to live with our allies for historical or personal reasons could retain Estonian citizenship, also having the citizenship of their new homeland, and no argument really came from here that there is a risk. New Zealand, Australia, Sweden, Finland, the United States, no arguments. Try again, maybe it'll be better, but please don't throw the subject aside, these people really need it, and they're asking quite sincerely all the time, they're also your constituents at the moment, why do they have to choose what the reason is? Why can't we at least share it with the European Union? We all know what the circumstances are, we all know that when they do, it is difficult to come back. The Estonian state should not then reduce its contacts with its country, but continue to increase and expand the circle of people who belong spiritually to that country, not to narrow it down, but rather to expand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U196	Thank you. Henn Põllaas, since your name was mentioned in the negotiations, you are entitled to reply. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U197	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi tried very hard to ridicule my arguments. I relied, as I said, on the analysis of the Ministry of the Interior of 2013. It was an analysis of the Ministry of the Interior during the Reform Party's government. So, ridiculing my arguments, Mr Jürgen Ligi also ridiculed the work and arguments of his own government and then the Ministry of the Interior. I think that's a little too much. Thank you. [[Laughing.]] Perhaps it is also an honest confession that there were shortcomings in the work of the Reform Party's government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U198	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, is it procedural? Negotiation. It's not exactly regulated by the rules, or you can mention each other's names until tomorrow morning, but let's make it a word for a reply once. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U199	Thank you. I kindly thank my colleague for his support. I, too, said that he would not listen to what he was told, and I explained what was the context of this 2013 memo and that it is far from the only memo we are familiar with. It had no connection with this draft, but the draft was based on the problems referred to in this memo, among other things. As a result, this circle of countries is so limited. But I'm really sorry that a person comes for the fifth time, or was it the third time? And he's not listening to any arguments, and now, for the fourth time, he's chopping the same thing after he's got the answer. I'd have bothered to listen, I'd know.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U200	Thank you. Let's move on with the negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Oudekki Loone, please! Valdo Randpere, do you have a procedural question? A microphone for Valdo Randpere, please! I apologize to Oudekki Loone now!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U201	No, I have a very short procedure. Oudekki, you may still be. Basically, I have to say that henn Põllea has been told several times in previous years that do not tie this 2013 analysis very closely to the Reform Party, because then there was the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. This is not the first time he came and claimed that the Minister of the Interior was a Reform Party. He's been told that many times...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U202	Mr. Randpere! This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U203	It's very procedural that we repeat lies. The same thing Jürgen said that a person doesn't listen to what he's told.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U204	Let's move on with the negotiations. It wasn't a procedural question. Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U205	Ladies and gentlemen, This bill will create more injustice for the Republic of Estonia. This bill says that naturalised citizens are somehow second-class citizens. We heard that in several presentations. They do not have to have equal rights; they are not real. What happens here? It will be exactly the step that a good socialist colleague has mentioned. Is the next thing we say in times of crisis is that, oh, actually, we only give sickness insurance to natural citizens because they're real? Where does it end when we accept this argument that they're not really really that the citizenship of blood is somehow better? I think it's a very dangerous road. Perhaps we have some very cosmetic differences in civil rights that are justified. Applying for president is something that most people do not really touch, it can be considered, although I also believe that may be too much, but it is ceremonial. But when we say that about citizenship, we actually create more inequality. We are doing this in a situation where we give some citizens more rights than others. We are creating a situation where people's rights were equal or more equal before, we are divorcing it. That is why this bill is deeply unfair. The second question is on this list of countries. If we look at the European Union, yes, in the case of the European Union, we can logically justify it. We have free movement of labour, we have a common currency with the countries of the euro zone and, above all, the free movement of people. This requires certain types of rights. In this case, you would see that there is some rational, rational argument here that if we start making a choice, why make that choice? The second list, such an arbitrary list, that NATO does not want to be written, because indeed, it is strange to write about a military organisation, we are writing about some random countries, which are not justified by the fact that there are the most Estonian citizens or simply an external Estonian community, because some of them are not, for example, in Brazil and New Zealand. And Russia is, of course, excluded. Now the idea that we are writing into the law that we do not like Russia is relatively foolish. What's more, make such a list, essentially any list, and say, well, we have some sort of mind thing here. There are two problems. Does this mean that the Estonian state will establish a acceptable mindset for its citizens? Are we going to measure it somehow? Again, we're going to a future I'd hate to see. The second question is that as a small country, it is very, very important for Estonia to insist on the equality of states at international level, because they are sovereign states. In a way, we are all equal, all with the same rights. It is in our interest, that is perhaps our guarantee of independence, that by interacting with each other at a certain legal level in international organisations, we are in a sense all equal. That's why we have to keep this equality. Indeed, the issues that have been mentioned here are that we have people who are moving, we have a migration crisis, we have people who, simply because of interest, go to other countries, certainly double citizenship is something that could be discussed and that solves many problems... Extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U206	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U207	... and what definitely needs to be discussed. Indeed, there is a conflict between the Citizenship Act and the Constitution. And indeed, the Estonian state does not need to place arbitrary barriers before people for whom it is the only and important country, in front of these people, in front of the good people who want to join us elsewhere, but we have to do it just as stated in the preamble to our constitution. Our country is built on justice. We cannot do this by creating more injustices and creating some arbitrary categories. We must act in this Chamber in such a way that we consider each person equally human, that we regard every citizen equally as a citizen, not as building such citizenship houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U208	Thanks to the co-rapporteur. There are no questions for the co-rapporteur and no further speeches; there is no wish to participate in the negotiations. We now have the proposal of the lead committee to reject the draft 37 at first reading. This proposal must be voted on. Honourable colleagues, time is up. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 52 members of the Riigikogu in favour of rejection, against 30. The bill has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U209	Next item:... [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Hey, let's move on to the agenda! Next item:... Honourables, can we have a little quiet? The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Private Schools Act, initiated by the Reform Party Group. Jürgen Ligi as waitress, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by introducing this draft as a reference to the Constitution. § 37 of the Constitution states, apart from other points, that education is supervised by the State. The meaning of this section, as well as the meaning of other provisions, requires the state to offer a uniform and high quality school education throughout Estonia. It could depend as little as possible on school. The country's efforts to ensure a level playing field in education are well diversified. After all, we prepare teachers for schools and curricula, educational resources and methodological support are on the state's side, including support services and education investments, teacher's salary is the same across Estonia in order to harmonise this quality, examination arrangements are largely state-owned. These are things that must guarantee the task given in the Constitution. However, the fact is that the state is not a schoolkeeper, with some exceptions, and therefore does not have the possibility to intervene directly in the management of the school. If there are shortcomings in the school's learning outcomes or even in the learning environment, there is nothing the state can do. This situation is somewhat contrary to the Constitution. Various educational studies show that school leaders play a very important role in shaping the learning environment and thereby in achieving learning outcomes. The explanatory memorandum to the draft provides examples of international studies as well as studies carried out in Estonia. In the analysis of the University of Tartu in 2011, for example, such peculiar observations were made, the conclusions that the smaller the contact of the headmaster with non-school interest groups, the less the headmaster has an overview of the performance of the students, the more satisfied he is with the quality of his school and teaching there. Similar results are shown in the 2013 OECD Education Survey (we call it TALIS). Unlike the test results, in which Estonia is at the top of the world, we are not at the top based on the assessment of the role of school leaders. Estonian school leaders handle school development planning less than the national school leaders who participated in the TALIS survey on average. 82% of school leaders in the study use student evaluation results, including national and international evaluation, to develop school education and education goals and programmes, but according to TALIS, this percentage is 89 on average. There's no difference. But only a little more than half of the school leaders have developed a professional development plan for their schools, and according to the TALIS survey in other countries 80% on average. While according to TALIS, almost half of school leaders, 49%, have often visited hours for observation purposes, Estonian school leaders do not have or have exactly seven times less, only 7%. In any case, it creates a slightly different link between them and the education provided. All in all, the Estonian school manager is less involved in activities supporting education and education than in other countries, and rarely gets into the classroom. With all the excellence of our school, it is something that can be improved and for which the country could have cause for concern. § 1 of the Bill makes an amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and says: 'At least once every five years, the performance of the Director is assessed and his compliance with the qualification requirements established pursuant to § 74 (5) of this Act is assessed. For the purposes of the evaluation, the Minister responsible for the field shall set up a Board of Directors, composed at least of the Ministry of Education and Research, a national association of local authorities and a registered association of school leaders. ' As a result of the Commission's work, the Director is given feedback on his performance and professional development. If the result of the evaluation indicates that the Director has significant deficiencies in the performance of the tasks referred to in the PGS or that the Director does not meet the qualification requirements laid down in accordance with § 74 (5) of the PGS, the evaluation committee shall set a deadline for the Director to carry out the reassessment and, of course, shall issue its recommendations for changes in the management of the School. However, if the re-evaluation indicates that the shortcomings highlighted have not been remedied, the evaluation committee shall have the right to propose to the schoolkeeper that the contract of employment of the head of school be terminated. This is actually the end of state intervention. The first version of our draft also provided for financial sanctions for the local government, but during the previous Riigikogu opposition was shown to this point, not to the other points. It should be recalled that this bill was in principle supported by the Ministry of Education. So we took out this disputed point this time. Paragraph 71 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act provides that the School is managed by the Director and is responsible for the organisation and effectiveness of education and training activities within the limits of its competence and for other activities carried out in the School, the general status and development of the School and the lawful and rational use of the funds. Paragraph 2 of this section specifies the tasks of the Director. The Minister responsible for the field has laid down the qualifications requirements of the Director in his 2013 Regulation No 30. These requirements are a master's degree or equivalent qualification and management competence. The management competence will be further assessed on the basis of our understanding of the organization's development management, learning environment design, human resources management, resource management and self-management. In any case, the Riigikogu has already laid down these competences and they have been specified by the Minister's regulation, which means that the state has already undertaken to fulfil this obligation, but what is missing is precisely supervision, which we also offer. The root of this bill, I recall, is still in the Ministry of Education. It has been initiated during my ministry not as some kind of party project, but on the basis of studies and negotiations with specialists and interest groups. At the same time, this draft seeks to protect the autonomy of the municipality, which has previously been called into question in some speeches. The autonomy of the municipality must be respected as much as possible, even if the State has a supervisory obligation. One element here is that this evaluation involves, among other things, a representative of the schoolmasters, who is in this case to be appointed by the municipal associations. We do not lay down the form of employment contract on the grounds of law. I think this is an important position. It has been said that a teacher's fixed-term contract is the solution to the problem. There's no way he's gonna be. In this case, it is the schoolkeeper who decides whether or not to conclude the contract and the State still does not have supervision over the conclusion or termination of the contract. Nor do we offer this possibility (for example, the Chancellor of Justice has also expressed this view) that the state should become the keeper of all schools, so that it is a sure guarantee of a uniform education. Although the project of state secondary schools can confirm this, most schools (about 500 schools) are a very important part of one of the main functions of the municipality, which also takes almost half of the municipality's budget. We should not, under any circumstances, turn the municipalities back on the fact that we take away this community role and its contact from them. Never will the state be close enough to do this better, our sense of feeling and the choice of the Estonian state have been ours. The evaluation committee is made up of representatives of school leaders and representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research, as well as representatives of school managers. I have already talked about the competences, they are listed in this decree of the Minister of Education in 2013. But to complement what can be used for evaluation. These could be in particular school performance indicators. If they are very good, then there is hardly any reason for the country to intervene. The school development plan must certainly be in order and also the report of the school advisor. Personal self-analysis is appropriate, we believe, and feedback from the director's direct manager and other relevant persons must also be evaluated. The Commission should probably also meet with the leader whose work is in evaluation, but the law does not say so. I believe that bureaucracy can always be applied more or less. The main indicator is still learning outcomes, which could lead the state to intervene. The issue of the school environment is always important, but the only person who determines it doesn't have to be the director, he never does, how much is the responsibility of the schoolkeeper. I guess I didn't get mentioned yet that if these... Yes, I mentioned, however, that the Commission has the right to make an injunction not to extend the employment contract of the head of school if these requirements are not met. But the bill doesn't provide for sanctions in this version. The position of the government in the previous Riigikogu, as I said, was supportive. There's no way we can see that support now. In fact, the arguments in the Commission did not become very clear to me. The Minister was personally present this time and said that the alternative was like a pilot project providing feedback to the directors. It is certainly not, to some extent, an instrument of national supervision; such a pilot project of limited scope cannot in any way be a constitutional dutyholder. It is regrettable that, although we can see that there are problems with the administration of schools and that the Minister of Education has to deal with them from time to time, it is always responsive rather than proactive. In a crisis situation, the Ministry still has to deal with schools, but this could be prevented, done more systematically and deal with cases that do not receive more public attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U211	Thanks to the waitress! Of course, there are also questions. Heidy Purga, please, first question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U212	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Dear Jürgen Ligi! I will read an explanatory statement which mentions recommendations based on evaluation results, which are three: the high quality of education, that directors are leaders in learning, and that schools have a learning approach that takes into account the needs of the learner, that develops creativity and innovation. When preparing this bill, was there any specific cases or cases known, or was the general mood in society the reason that such a bill had to come up with?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U213	Thank you. This bill is certainly not born of any electoral programme or party programme; it is born of a need felt in the Ministry of Education and seen in the education system. But I mentioned research at first. When this bill was launched about five years ago, it was preceded by the studies I mentioned. These studies indicate that school management is something where we are not the best in the world, although we are otherwise mostly in school. A better solution than this management assessment was not found. As I mentioned, there are very different aspects of school under strong national influence, and overall, the convergence of our schools is high, but there are still these fluctuations in school management and, according to international studies, school leaders do not feel the connection with teaching and education that generally tends to emerge from these OECD studies. They are even more satisfied with their work when they are less exposed to education and education. Such a paradox has also been mentioned there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U214	Thank you. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U215	Thank you, Honourable Vice Speaker. Dear Jürgen Ligi! Indeed, the Minister in the Committee on Culture stated that two years of feedback from educational institutions at 360 degrees has been piloted. It seems to me that this is a short period of time, but the problems of school management have come to the public in just that time. He also mentioned that when transitioned to permanent employment contracts, the Ministry had the belief that this would save school leaders from pressure and give them greater freedom. The question is whether, in addition to the amendments that I certainly support, we could also discuss the withdrawal of fixed-term contracts. This has been supported by several municipalities and the Estonian Association of Student Governments, who also supports the draft in principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U216	Thank you. It can always be considered. My consideration says it's a bad offer. My contacts with the search for human resources, the appointment of managers, have not been few in life, show that the peaks do not want to apply for, or maybe, some sort of temporary solutions, but they still link their lives to a particular place, rather without such restrictions. If you say come with me for five or four years (whatever this agreement is), their willingness to associate themselves with this region or school, which is an all-Estonian phenomenon, I guess, is less. They think they might have the decision. But that's the way it's looked at by this candidate or leader. On the other hand, when the state has sensed the problem that municipalities are holding on to some sort of local, party or personal motives or simply sluggish school leaders who do not actually do their job well, they always do, even though they are definitely outnumbered, there is no reason for them not to give the next contract. This isn't the moment of change when you're just replacing one contract with another. Any lazy or related person will be happy to extend this agreement if there is no intervention in it, but there is no state intervention here. If these two things could be combined, maybe, but I think it's kind of an interference with autonomy. Self-governings should be able to organise at law level and do things that are clearly within their competence. It's up to you. But what kind of a particular person to hire for a long time and if he's coming to work, that's all more of a negotiation talk. I don't really see any positive aspects of a fixed-term contract in the law, of course I can discuss it, but I haven't seen them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U217	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Good Jürgen Ligi! I have the same question that Signe Kivi just asked. You mentioned these fixed-term contracts once in your introductory speech, and now you talked quite thoroughly about personal experience and opinion. But I have a question. You said this bill and these ideas and thoughts came from when you were in the ministry. Did the ministry also discuss the positive and negative nuances of fixed-term contracts? Personally, I'd be more inclined to support these fixed-term contracts, unlike you. I mean, you just described your personal position, but was there any understanding or analysis in the ministry because we've been living, haven't we, both times, during term contracts and later, making them permanent again?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U219	Thank you. I'm actually the person. I represent the group that presented this draft. We still believe that such a legislative amendment is a good one, even though the Minister of Education has changed his mind. The ministry, of course, talked about that too. I can't get back to history right now, why these contracts were changed at some point. But that is the position of the initiators of the draft, which is expressed in this draft, and the Ministry cannot prescribe what we do not agree with. I do not think that this drafting of the contract's term is compatible with the autonomy of the municipality, point one. I think this actually complicates personnel decisions. I think so, but it can be discussed. If we enter an additional limit, it will make it harder to find a good director, which is the pathos of this bill, that better director, and not worse director. In turn, I do not see the possibility for the state to intervene if we simply sign up for a fixed-term contract. There's also a stigma I'd like to criticize. There's always this talk about someone staying somewhere for a long time, lifelong directors, and so on. I absolutely do not share assessments as if the term of office was automatically a poor quality indicator. You shouldn't be disparaging people who work hard, people who are dedicated to their work and school, but there could be an external evaluation. We are far from the only party that has offered an external evaluation instrument in its programme in its time. Check to see if you have it in your education program. That is the point of the Constitution. I do not see how the supervision obligation enshrined in the last sentence of § 37 of the Constitution, 'Education is under state supervision', arises from the fact that we say that you can make a contract for four or five years, no more or less. It's rather been the bravure of some election programs that we're just throwing in the air with one limit and let's say that this now guarantees it. I've been listening to these debates, but I haven't figured out a reason why a fixed-term commitment would make a better director. No, however, the possibility of responding to the situation and extending, suspending and concluding the agreement is an opportunity to better assess. But the look of the observer only comes through this appreciation, he doesn't come from anywhere else. The spectator is the state in this case, but since it must not be real, let's say it's an off-school state supervision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U220	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U221	Dear Speaker! Dear waitress, I'm reading this bill, I'm reading this explanatory statement, and there's a place where I can't put them together. The explanatory memorandum states that the draft provides for the possibility of reducing the state contribution of the school managers to the staff costs of directors whose performance and competence have proved insufficient to continue in office on the basis of the results of the assessment, but with whom the manager does not wish to terminate his employment. At the same time, in the law itself or in the draft, I do not find this reduction in the coverage of labour costs. Can you explain the contradiction? The second question is that, in public, we have heard about the problems of the Language Inspectorate with some directors, but this activity has been relatively toothless. Does this bill also result in a toothless situation that someone suggests something, but nothing really happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U222	Thank you. In case there's a passage like this left, I'm really sorry. I didn't find it here, I thought we took it out. This is the compromise we made on the criticism of the previous Riigikogu, which should be suitable for all political parties. If that point stayed in here, I'm really sorry. I thought I was screening the explanatory statement thoroughly and checking it out. I can apologize for another passage that's stuck in here. The result of the administrative reform is stated here as a prerequisite, we have not updated all things in this original document, for which I apologise, but it is not about the text, it is about the explanatory memorandum. This can naturally be corrected between two readings. The language issue has indeed been one of the backgrounds, and I fear one of the backgrounds of opposition to this matter. There are still school directors whose total indifference to language requirements has been a source of tension in society. There are school principals who whistle on language requirements, although they may not whistle. It has also been one of the places for assessing qualifications. If, after all, the precepts of the inspection are not complied with in a dull manner, this could be one of the additional arguments for the precept and, in my opinion, if they are not complied with, for the proposal for exemption.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U223	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U224	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, A critical reflection is required for each driver. This is called external evaluation, as it concerns school managers. In that sense, a sensible draft. The competence model of top managers is a model that certainly also applies to school leaders, has been developed by managerial scientists and theorists, and it presents a number of expectations to the driver: it must be the creator of values, but also the designer of the future and the achiever of results. The school manager, exceptionally or as one of some, is responsible for the entire generation because his term of office is unlimited, without a time limit. That is why I have this question. It has been said here that this bill has little impact on the economy. I have this feeling that the influence of the headmaster on the economy is extremely far-reaching, starting with what specializations students are going to study, what their preparation is like when they go to college, and so on. Would you mind commenting on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U225	Another place to apologize. It still carries a bit of the stamp of a ministry official, to which the person who spoke about the content and decided on the content may not necessarily pay enough attention. I agree that the impact on the economy is very strong in school education, just the immediate impact of this draft is not measurable in this way and we cannot appreciate it. The use of superlating is not necessarily the most practical, but yes, this point could be left out of there freely, it is rather such an obligation to evaluate something that we cannot evaluate, and then it has been appreciated very loosely. I agree with drawing attention to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U226	Thank you. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, After nearly seven and a half years of being the head of one of the largest local governments in Estonia, Rae rural municipality, I have personally experienced the great impact that the school principal has on the school and, in fact, on the wider community, and the great impact on whether he is good or not. In my work, I was confronted with the fact that at times there may have been a politically elected head of school whose skills and knowledge were far from what should be. Perhaps I would like to congratulate this initiative and say that I think it is a very good draft, because the schoolmaster sometimes needs an external view and external help in assessing how good or bad the situation is. But now to the question. Do you know what the school principals think about this bill or the idea, and so do schoolkeepers, or municipalities? I was able to say my opinion here, but do we know that opinion in general?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U228	Thank you. I'm not quite sure, I haven't been shown the ratings of the interest groups. I didn't really want to read them or haven't looked for them myself. But at the time this bill was initiated, the overall attitude was quite positive. Now, I understand, the school leaders have also expressed a critical attitude. My answer is that perhaps the worst of all would be to resort to this criticism. The parties to be looked after and to be watched for are perhaps not the most objective, their praise is always good, but their opposition may not be the final truth. Nobody really gets excited when there's an extra surveillance instrument. What's there to say? After all, the headmasters are behind our very good educational outcomes, so they do not need to fear a problem at all, but they will win because they receive regular feedback that is currently not provided to them by the state. I've also got a headmaster's assessment of this bill that I don't really want to read because it's so sweet. Hendrik Agur, a former director of GAG and now Kohtla-Järve Gymnasium, has said this very well in public, but I am not in a position to praise it because he still praised it. I really appreciate it. It's gotten to me that one of the principals says, "Well, yeah, do it." Very nice, but he's not the only one. Of course, oversight of receiving praise is of double value.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U229	Katri Raik, next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U230	Good President! Good performer! The draft you have initiated will not only find a warm reception among individual school leaders, but it will also find a very warm reception among teachers. Each party obviously has its own educational panel and our educational panel has had a lively discussion on this issue in recent days. To my great surprise, too, there is no support for five-year contracts and it is said that this will actually create a 'five-year assurance' for the Director and nothing will happen before that. My question is, rather, how, in this flexible external evaluation process you have described, you might think that the collective would have the opportunity to point out that the head of school needs evaluation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U231	I'm a bit of an antidote, I don't want to give a lot of credit to this kind of team management, I'm a little allergic to it, but if you ask me nicely, I'll see if I've written it down. I don't think I've written it down. I expect that stakeholders will in any case be taken into account when this committee is being appointed. And the criteria for evaluation, I can even see the possibility of simply looking at external items or only documents and communicating only with the director. It is quite natural that the Commission is also trying to obtain the collective opinion. But the weight on it, I don't always know exactly what to appreciate. It's still additional information that I don't even think can be avoided, so I'd rather be there for you, even though I'm saying, as the first reaction, I don't really know. I was thinking about the extreme where the collective chooses its own leader. This shouldn't be exactly the case. However, they could be able to make their assessment automatically.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U232	Thank you. Kalvi Tough, please, next question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U233	Thank you. The new procedure for dealing with draft laws of the Riigikogu does not give a full overview of whether this draft will still remain in the process. I hope that this bill will remain in the process and will also be passed as a law. You, Jürgen, as the carrier of this bill, are mapping those people who think that directors could have fixed-term contracts. I guess I belong on the same side as Signe and Priidu, as I understand it. But here's my question. You also said here in your introductory speech that the less the headmaster communicates with the community, the more he thinks he's doing his job well, or something like that. We know, of course, that cooperation with the community and all this must be monitored by the schoolmaster and the municipality. But the municipality may also have fewer levers to direct the director, I do not know that he can be replaced, it is only possible to dismantle him, and as a rule, this dispute goes to the Labour Dispute Committee and the local government can be defeated. Maybe you can see a few points that the law should change in order to give local authorities more rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U234	Thank you. We haven't really thought about that. It seems that the possibilities of the municipality are sufficiently direct, but it cannot be ruled out that something needs to be added. Now I'm going to have this ideological dilemma here again. If I usually hear from your party such an employee's interest, then you are now defending the employer's or local government's interest. Here, of course, there is such an equilibrium point always; this can also be discussed. But, as I understand it, Signe, for example, did not express a view that a fixed-term agreement would be better, but I did speak of its weaknesses that I did not see how a fixed-term agreement would solve this problem. I don't see how national supervision is improving, but the state doesn't sign this agreement. If you hand over a fixed-term piece, I don't know if it will create certainty, there are still ways to get rid of a person if he doesn't manage, but it's not something of a constitutional obligation, of the studies I referred to, of the resulting instrument. However, the autonomy of the municipality is based on its right to do so. Of course, it is right that I do not believe that somewhere in the law it is stated that an open-ended contract must be made with a teacher. I don't think I do. Maybe I've missed something. The law doesn't say the other way around. Here I appreciate the autonomy of the municipality and the choice of employer, the choice of schoolkeeper in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U235	Rock Hard, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U236	Since you, Jürgen, pulled in a little policy here, that you've always been on the contractor's side, not on the employer's side, I say I'm always on the side of the kids, children and the community, and that side. That's it. But since we now have a lot of state schools and private schools are those who directly receive the confirmation of their training permit and all of them from the Ministry, can you tell me how much the state is supervising the heads of public schools and private schools and how many such so-called development interviews are being held for them? They are already directly in their administration, private schools and public schools, state secondary schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U237	Thank you. First of all, I would not try to depoliticise politics. This was not a conflicting comment, but rather an identical comment. I'm okay with the sots asking from the employer's point of view. We need to balance our positions. All in all, who else than a child has a school intended for, but of course he is of public interest to everyone. The kid's just the person that's the reason the whole thing works for. What was the question again? [[K. Hard specifies the position.]] Private schools. The Constitution does not provide any exception in this respect to the fact that private schools are not held responsible for the state, for the quality of education and for it; it is not infinitely separate from the responsibility of the state. That is why the distinction between private schools has not been mentioned here either, but that the responsibility of the state there is as if it were particularly strong, that certainly cannot be said again. Where he is especially strong, this place is a state gymnasium. I think the country has done very well with these projects, I can tell you from how much feedback I have on this. I guess this feedback is getting weaker, I can't hear it every day, but I can still say that state secondary schools have done well. However, as has been said, school functions should not be taken away from the municipality, and the lower-level school or child institution, the closer it tends to be to the municipality and the community. Let these schools be where they are, the state should only be given one instrument in terms of leadership.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U238	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U239	Thank you. I didn't exactly understand whether my name was named or not, but I haven't spoken publicly so far about this bill, so I'm gonna do it now. Basically, I very much believe that the external evaluation of school leaders is necessary. As far as I've been communicating with the school leaders, I can tell you, in a way or another, they're very open to it themselves. But Mr Kalvi Tough question related to the role of local government. Rather, I would like to stress that schools and school leaders are, in fact, teachers in the field of education, and open to this development as well. Do you, Jürgen Ligi, as former Minister of Education, not have the feeling that local governments do not manage much of the schools that are managed by the local government well enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U240	Thank you. Fortunately, schools in Estonia have a very high degree of autonomy. It does not have to be very direct school management by the municipality or schoolkeeper. There are cases, yes, how poorly managed. Well, apart from what I tried to prove by reference to research and the constitution, it's still not intuitive, but if self-governance is a long way off, there may be problems, but because of some local and personal interests, it may be that they just let go. That's where the sufferers are kids if there's no intervention, but the school or the schoolmaster can't handle it. So in school matters, of course, school leaders are generally more relevant than municipalities or school managers, but you can't say that the school manager is somehow instead of the school manager. Attention management, I think, was appropriate, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U241	Signe Riisalo, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U242	Thank you! After all, external evaluation is not just a verification mechanism; it is a place to improve the quality of the substance. If this state-of-the-art external evaluation or monitoring, whatever it is called, be guided and led, it is a very good measure of how to develop our educational landscape. How can these risks be mitigated so that the method that will be adopted later in the Ministerial Decree will fulfil precisely this development and quality improvement task?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U243	Thank you. It must then be described in the relevant regulation, which is accurately assessed, but we are very much in agreement on the need for evaluation, and if there is an evaluation, then, at least in the two-ball system, the grade is necessary. But, above all, the evaluation is meant to guarantee quality, of course, and feedback is the greatest value of it. I believe that most school leaders get very positive feedback because often the school is just so good, but they also get some reason to think about it, because maybe someone will notice something that maybe they wouldn't think about otherwise if it wasn't for the instrument. Of course, control is not fundamental; control is only a means of guaranteeing quality; control is not a matter of itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U244	Riho Breivel, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U245	I was the head of the school myself when you were the minister and this first assessment, how to say, the bill came. We reviewed it with the directors of Ida-Virumaa, and I have to say that we weren't happy. As far as a fixed-term appointment is concerned, I think exactly as you do that a fixed-term appointment is not a good thing, because it limits the director's initiative to a certain amount of time and does not go that far. However, the external evaluation is also that we saw at the time that, when we started regular evaluation, it creates a nervous atmosphere and often does not carry it forward, because all these assessments end with a bureaucratic approach. I've been valued in the Defence Forces and everywhere. You could say that, oh, it's beautiful, it's great and you get good feedback, but generally it tends to go like this so it doesn't. Do you still think that evaluation is worth it to start doing this again and to increase bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U246	Yeah, that's what I'm here for, and that's what I'm trying to prove. Evaluation is an integral part of the school. I think the exams are inseparable from the school. I think we are also in agreement here on the subject of basic school examinations, but I am not saying that there was 100% privateisation. But I, in general, am a proponent of such trials. Even though they're disgusting, they help. Here we have talked about the competence of the leader, and my colleague, Urve Tiidus, has read the principles of leadership very appropriately. The driver needs to get feedback from somewhere. Where does he get it, if he's a lobbyist and he's an engineer or an accountant, but there's no educational expertise that can appreciate how he's getting along? I think that local government leaders, too, will only win if state support in one of their critical areas of responsibility, if not the most critical, is stronger than it has been so far. My answer to the question is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U247	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. I would like to ask the co-rapporteur of the chair, Aadu Black, chairman of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U248	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed this draft on Monday 23 September. All members of the Commission, as well as Commission officials Angelika Berg and Urvo Klopets, were present. Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, Deputy Chancellor of General Education, Language and Youth Policy Kristi Nemvalts, Head of Legal Department Sille Uusna, Head of External Evaluation Kristin Hollo and Deputy Chancellor of Higher Education and Science Indrek Reimand... I'm sorry, he was invited to another item on the agenda, my mistake. Jürgen Ligi made a presentation to the Commission on this item, as he did today. Much of the information he provided to the large hall coincides with what was mentioned in the Commission. If you try to generalise a bit, you can say that the discussion in the Commission was very acute. To a large extent, both sides of the discussion, which were in fact representatives of the Ministry and the author's representative, said the same thing. When I read the minutes, I really see that there are no differences in opinion on the objectives of the draft. The role of the head of school is crucial for the work environment, the quality of learning and for all development and innovation, which could have been said by either side, but at the moment it has been written in Sille Uusna's words. It was more a question of method. If not all of this Commission's protocol is read out, which I can do and try to generalise a little bit, then the points of dispute were well known to me as the Commission's veteran. In fact, these same issues have indeed been raised repeatedly over the last eight years, including the question of selecting school leaders, in the name of the various items on the agenda or in the name of different drafts. The author also stressed that this is a draft prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research, which has not come into the Riigikogu's proceedings quickly enough. Sille Uusna, who introduced this point, explained that even after the leaving of Minister Jürgen Ligi, the Ministry has continued to work on this subject and is trying to present this option, which has developed later. Indeed, the question of method was primarily a matter of discussion. As the previous speaker pointed out, different control mechanisms were compared. For example, Signe Kivi analysed how a fixed-term contract or employee accreditation works at higher education institutions at least once every five years, because the Commission was interested in doing so. The question was, what makes this five-year assessment different from the assessment of the head of school. With certain self-criticism about myself as the chairman of the meeting, I must say that this matter did not become very clear. Rather, the argument tended to be that if you take all the bad aspects of a single method, it is a far worse option than taking into account all the good aspects of another method. I guess every method has pros and cons. Well, that's the way it is. There was one waterfall, though. As a matter of fact, what Jürgen Ligi added was that there is a big difference between six universities that can be trusted with an internal evaluation or 500 schools that are uneven. The Commission's meeting was attended by the same question, which is well known to the Committee on Culture, that there is always one firm group who believes that local governments cannot be trusted very much, that they are at an uneven level, and, on the other hand, people who have work experience in local government and who find that sometimes decisions that are aliens come from above. For example, Marko Šorin, a man with probably strong self-governing experience, asked whether the initiator's intention was to give an initiative outside the local authorities, or distrust local authorities and their competences, or vice versa. It was also mentioned that the competences of the school leaders are uneven, but is it precisely such a draft that the parties already had opinions, that everyone has their own experience of life and their own understanding of the matter? The Commission adopted a unanimous decision to submit the draft to the Plenary Assembly, to put it on the agenda by yesterday, with full consensus in the Commission. Since our procedure provides that if no one protests or proposes to reject the draft, it will automatically go into proceedings, that is exactly what happened. There was no obligation or need to vote on whether the Commission would support or not. There are obviously differences of opinion within the Commission. Fortunately, I cannot talk about personal experience, although I feel very close to school life for a little over 60 years, but this was not discussed in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U249	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, a question for the co-rapporteur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Did the Commission have any idea of how this bill would go now? I understand that the first reading is finished. When could a decision be made? You said that many things, however, remained confusing in the debate at the Commission that there were objections and arguments in favour. Perfectly understandable, but make a little prognosis, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U251	I can only make the forecast that we will continue to process it in accordance with the Riigikogu's rules of procedure and rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U252	So do I.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U253	That's definitely what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U254	All right, Mart Networker, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U255	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting. Dear waitress, There's no question. There's another line. Since I have just come here from the head of the municipality, for seven and a half years I have been in charge of the municipality, I dare say that this bill does not deprive the municipality or the local government manager of any right. I very much support it, it is a tool for the head of government and the head of school, i.e. a side-by-side assessment that does not have to be aimed at pointing the finger at whether someone has done something well or badly, but it is simply a form of feedback. It is also good for the headmaster to see if everything is good or if there are places where he can do better or where he should develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U256	Since this statement was in the set of questions asked, I must at least comment and say that I have also been at the head of a large government for 18 years and I dare say that I very much appreciate the competence of local authorities. I am also on the same side with you, albeit not on the whole, of the doubts raised during the draft debate as to whether the local authorities are at a high level.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U257	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U258	Good manager! Good waitress! On the basis of this bill, do you think that the members of the Riigikogu should also be accredited, so that maybe the board will come together and discuss whether we will pass the accreditation? Or should councils also grant council members accreditation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U259	The correct answer is that this was not discussed by the Commission. However, we have discussed several times in recent formations that there have been attempts to carry out even a separate, large, powerful institution, which should begin to test all people. Perhaps you'll remember, I don't know if it was in your time or before, when they wanted to have a large test center that was supposed to evaluate the admissions of all invitations, because somewhere in Germany there had to be something like this and could also give us a place where a lot of people would find work as examiners. It seems that exams for exams, checks for examination should not be carried out, but this should be done to verify compliance with the law. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U260	For all members of the Riigikogu to be accredited in Germany, this is quite an interesting idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U261	That's not what I offered. I introduced the discussions once.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U262	I'm sorry! Yoko Alender, next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U263	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If there were members on the Commission who were critical of the draft, or the ministry officials did not support this way of implementing the state control, what were the alternative methods proposed? Were there any alternative options proposed at all? The author's waitress also repeatedly referred to the Constitution that we have education under the control of the state or under the watchful eye of the state. Did the Ministry propose alternatives or critical ambassadors propose alternatives?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U264	Indeed, the ministerial officials who were present spoke (in particular Sille Uusna spoke about this) about the practice of the verification mechanism and, in particular, of feedback during this "post-near" period. It was argued that the control system or feedback system has been specified and further developed that history did not stop at the moment that this draft was ever completed in the Ministry and was discussed in more detail about the 360-degree feedback system, which must characterise the broadest possible feedback spectrum, to be briefly stated. So these methods were discussed, but just as far as the Members of the Commission could ask and go along with these issues. That's what we were talking about, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U265	Yoko Alender, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U266	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At the same time, we are also losing our comprehensive school finals here. However, it seems to me that there is a legitimate concern that we cannot guarantee the uniform quality of the Estonian harmonisation school, the best education that all our children deserve regardless of their place of residence. Was there any way in the Commission that the "interplay" of these two drafts was discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U267	It was absolutely inevitable. In fact, unfortunately, you have come up with a very large number of drafts that have gone through the same committee because people have a history memory and they remember what they have been talking about before. In fact, there is a coupling point, but as you can see very well, there are differences of opinion here, and I am holding back so as not to defend my opinion. The Chairman of the Commission or the representative of the Commission shouldn't do this, otherwise next time the remote is not allowed, they say, "Hey, you're talking about it here." But what I am saying is that, in the case of the draft on the issue of national examinations, one of the most unfortunate things is to argue about matters, using the right names, but to be very poorly aware of what has been done with one or the other. So, without wanting to criticize anyone very much, I dare say that the preliminary work on this draft for the abolition of basic school exams was still weak. If the draft is pending and only then will people know exactly what one word or another means, then it is an accident at work. So sometimes it happens that some things aren't as good as we want to, if we want to infiltrate content, and some things aren't nearly as bad as we're afraid of. But briefly, with regard to feedback, control and its continuity, it is the Commission's mood to go to the exams now, that there must be a constant check, that is absolutely clear. Although we are not currently discussing this bill. In order to dissect this longer, I should start to analyze deeper.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U268	Thank you. The co-report has been heard, the questions have been answered, it is now possible to participate in the negotiations. Jürgen Ligi first, please! All speeches are on behalf of the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U269	I have to comment on this speech and on the questions, because I was not asked exactly the same questions. There were a few things that got scrambled. First of all, I cannot confirm that the alternatives were discussed in depth and that the question was the method of one method or another. In fact, alternative methods which would guarantee the principle contained in § 37 of the Constitution were not addressed. There are forms of feedback and a pilot project, they were touched, but not so much that we could compare methods. The methods were not actually compared. Directly it remained to be said that the Commission's report remained on the argument that we did not trust the municipalities. That's not what we were talking about. The question was really why we couldn't do as universities did, and the answer was that universities have a special place in the Constitution. § 38 of the Constitution, if I am not mistaken, says that science is free and universities are autonomous. This is a completely different quality than the one that applies to schools, that education is under the care of the state. These are completely different approaches. It also says that universities are autonomous within the limits prescribed by law, and universities have their own laws that say exactly how the head of school will then be appointed as the rector. With regard to the examination of the members of the Riigikogu, you could have asked me freely, it would have been about the bill. This point could hardly have come up in the debate in the Committee on Culture. But the persons to be elected are the persons to be elected, for which the Constitution provides for a different procedure. We should not confuse the examination of children, the assessment of leaders and the election of members of the Riigikogu, although I would like to see them pass through a closer sieve sometime if there are more such questions. I guess that's it. Let's not give up the attitude towards municipalities, they're different, schools are different in management, but it's not a question of trust, it's a question of control, because the Constitution provides for different procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U270	Thank you. Mr Pohlak on behalf of the EKRE Group, please! Call from the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U271	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers waiting for their order! I promise I'll be brief. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the draft produces bureaucracy to the education system that is not needed and creates unnecessary administrative burdens for the Ministry. We already have enough checks, evaluation committees and checks in the Republic of Estonia. Therefore, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I turn the proposal to reject the draft 39 at first reading to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U272	Okay. There are no more requests to participate in the negotiations. We have received a proposal from the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act, initiated by the Reform Party Group, 39 at first reading. Üllar Saaremäe, however, sorry! He wants to give a speech. [[A comment from the floor.]] Oh, I see. Of course, there's a big problem now about how we can get it off that button, but somehow we can. Got it. There are no more requests to participate in the negotiations. I invite high-ranking members of the Riigikogu to the hall to vote on the proposal of the Conservative People's Party. So, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 46 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, against 32. This means that the proposal to reject the draft 39 at first reading was supported and excluded from the procedure. [[???Kommentaar saalist: 'Haamer ka.'???]] Hammer, too. Right! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U273	Now, please, everyone, calm down! We will continue to work on the agenda items. The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 55 amending the General Part of the Environmental Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws. The rapporteur is Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment. Please, Minister, the remote control is at your disposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U274	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Before you is the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. The draft reduces bureaucracy and administrative burden in the management of the state and in the interaction of both private individuals and businesses with public authorities. The aim is to ensure better legal clarity and implementation of environmental laws across the board, reduce duplication of work and support the management of environmental permits in the modern environmental decision-making information system in Eagle. Eagle is a priority project of the Ministry of the Environment's government area, bringing all environmental permit obligations, such as declaration of environmental charges, into a single information system. Here are some examples of changes that will reduce red tape in the draft. The proposal repeals the authorisation required until now from the participants in the greenhouse gas trading scheme. In the future, the same work will be done more easily, as part of the environmental permit procedure. This is also the implementation of one of the proposals put forward by operators in the zero bureaucracy programme. The draft law also repeals the regulation of the hazardous waste management licence as this licence partly duplicates the waste permit, in the future the licence is part of the waste permit and does not need to be applied for separately. The Waste Act also brings the principles of the General Part of the Environmental Code into line with the Waste Act. Within this framework, the current law has been critically reviewed and, as a result of the amendment of the law, for example, the administrative burden of applying for the right to waste will be significantly reduced. At the same time, the waste management requirements are not relaxed and the protection of the environment from problems associated with illegal dumping is guaranteed equally and even better, as the permit requirements will be more uniform in the future. The amendment will contribute to a more substantive authorisation procedure and environmental protection requirements will be more specific and easier to implement. The same is true of simplifying the procedures for general geological research and prospecting permits. Mineral exploration can be carried out in the future on the basis of a study permit instead of a general geological research permit. As a result of the amendment, different types of permits and related rights will be better distinguished. The environmental requirements applicable to general geological research do not change. The proposal updates and harmonises the rates of state fees for the activities of the Environmental Board and amends the law on state fees so that it can be implemented when granting a single environmental permit. State fees shall be set on the basis of the costs incurred in carrying out the operation. Unfortunately, the fees associated with environmental permit are very uneven across sectors and part of the permit procedure is free of charge. The preparation of the draft was preceded by an in-depth analysis and the rates of state fees developed have been designed according to the cost principles set out in § 4 of the State Fees Act and the polluter-pays principle known in the field of environment. When establishing the cost principles of state fees, account shall be taken of the direct cost of environmental permit operations, i.e. labour costs and transport costs, indirect costs not included in the level of state fees. The state fees will be amended on the basis of actual service costs and taking into account changes to the law, including simplification of procedural requirements. The draft is one of the last steps in the organisation of environmental law, which lasted for about ten years. Environmental permit is one of the main environmental protection measures according to both the National Audit Office and international recommendations. With this law, we are moving towards a more uniform and better implemented environmental protection. Looking at the whole package together, it can be seen that its main changes relate to changes in environmental law, both general and more detailed, reducing red tape and improving the implementation of the law. The most impact of the draft legislation will be on the aggregation of environmental permit processes, the number of environmental permits will decrease, and the procedures will become faster. In the implementation of the Act, due to the efficiency of environmental permit procedures in several areas, the annual cost of labour of the Environmental Board will be saved in the order of EUR 131000, the development and administrative costs of information systems up to EUR 100000, and the financial savings resulting from the time savings of environmental permit companies in the order of EUR 120000 per year have been calculated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U275	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, first question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U276	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Since this is forever a major technical law, as always there are some details that may have been overlooked at first. This must have happened here, at least on one issue. Today, the Centre for Environmental Law communicated its position to the Riigikogu, which has pointed out that, in the context of technical changes in the field of land, one very important thing is being changed, namely that the time during which local authorities have to coordinate mining permits, for example, has been drawn from two months to one month, which is clearly designed to allow for the faster use of deposits, is likely to be the construction of Rail Baltic, etc. in this context, but it concerns the rights of local governments, the autonomy of local governments, the local life in such a way that this issue should be discussed in a completely separate way. What is your position, could we withdraw this point from the draft and discuss it separately with the local authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U277	Thank you. The Ministry of the Environment has been discussing this entire bill for a very long time. It is no secret that I, too, have looked very critically at the subject of opening up all kinds of new careers. I must admit that I do not see the danger that local authorities will somehow be disturbed by this process. If we are now talking about a mining permit for applying for an environmental permit, the local government will know about it after the Environmental Board has made its own procedure and basically shaped its position, then the draft before you today will include local governments immediately after an application for a mining or research permit has been received by the Environmental Board, for example. But, of course, it is possible to make suggestions between readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U278	Yoko Alender, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U279	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! During the procedure of this draft, we have also been approached by Estonian water producers, or fish farmers, who have proposed to exempt water producers from paying the pollution fee. How do you feel about this proposal, and has it already been discussed in the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U280	Thank you. Yeah, well, that information is well known to me, and that's what the Ministry is discussing. In general, it seems quite reasonable to move in this direction, as it is known that in the agricultural sector it is only water producers who pay the pollution fee. The principle should be that the same pollution charges should be paid by all agriculture or by no one. This debate is completely on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U281	Thank you. Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U282	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This law also amends state fees. This probably does not surprise anyone that when state fees are changed, mostly in one direction. You can see here that some state fees double, some triple. At the same time, a new information system will be developed within the administration of the Ministry of the Environment, and all permit processing will take place, which should actually simplify the procedure and make it cheaper. Is there not a slight contradiction between rising state fees and simplifying the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U283	Thank you, good questioner! The most recent revision of state fees in the field of the environment took place in 2015 and not all of them. These state fees, which are in the draft, have been calculated in the course of the 2018 licensing process, looking at how much the person actually worked. In itself, I consider it very reasonable that we apply the polluter-pays principle to the issue of these permits too, because I do not think that the taxpayer should pay for the granting of a permit to anyone who has an interest or need to obtain it. It is very right to point out that if we go into a new environment, there should actually be some savings. This estimated licence processing price in 2018, which also included the costs of the processing agent's remuneration plus travel, has been based on 10% of the currently planned savings resulting from the introduction of the Eagle programme, which brings together several programmes for today's activities involving different environmental permits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U284	Yoko Alender, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U285	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I'll ask you about the mining permits. What is behind this consideration in order to exclude the opinion or refusal of a local authority from the grounds for not issuing a permit for general geological research in the future? What are these hindsights, and how can this local government's right be protected even in terms of that time? Would you like to comment on that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U286	Thank you. Today, it is possible for both the applicant for a geological survey and a permit for general geological research, both of them, to propose that the mineral material examined be taken into account after the survey has been carried out. The law we are talking about now provides for a clear distinction. If we are dealing with a permit for general geological research, then it can only be aimed at research, study and development and the possibility of the state's or state's geology service to carry out mineral exploration to the state to find out what the state's mineral resources are and what their situation is. This does not give the possibility in the future to register mineral resources after carrying out the study. This is a very fundamental distinction. If it is possible to do so today, the draft before you will no longer be able to do so in the future, and this right will only be left with a permit for geological research. In this case, the local government also retains the right to veto this process, i.e. to take it to the table of the Government of the Republic so that it can take a decision there. Now for that time. I think, as Chairman of the Council, that this is not a problem for the local government, also repeatedly and repeatedly encountered these issues in previous activities. The possibility remains to ask for an extension if, for some reason, he or she is unable to convene a council. So I think that this is not a problem in terms of reducing the overall bureaucracy and reviewing it, and I believe that it does not restrict the rights of local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U287	Thank you. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U288	Thank you. Several environmental organisations have expressed concern that if we differentiate between the permit for general geological research and the permit for mineral geological exploration in this way, it is under the shadow of the attempt to create a situation where the authorisation of mineral geological exploration essentially means consent to extraction. How would you respond to this criticism? How could you appease these organizations?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U289	Thank you. First of all, I continue to consider it reasonable that each country, including Estonia, knows what its mineral resources are and what state they are in. That makes perfect sense. This same general geological research permit gives us the opportunity, as I mentioned earlier, to carry out these drillings for research, development and teaching purposes and to explain the state of our mineral resources and their resources. As stated in this law, the authorisation of general geological research does not confer the right to assume that this resource will be accounted for. The state will know what its resources are, and local governments will continue to be able to veto the research permit as before. More like less legal clarity today, it's swimming in such a blurry room. Companies often take permission for general geological research in order to actually investigate the situation of mineral resources and consequently pay a lower state fee. The amendment will increase legal clarity and, in fact, it will be fairer for the state to receive money.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U290	Heiki Kranich, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U291	Thank you. I can only agree with you that we still need to know what we have in the ground. These studies will certainly need to be carried out for this purpose. However, unfortunately, we have also received information that mineral resources have often been accounted for without carrying out geological research, based on studies of a neighboring block. Do you think it's right that some kind of mineral resource is accounted for simply by such analogy, or should it be specified in the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U292	I'm sure the mineral inventory has to come from research. There's no way anyone's gut can be relied on here. That's clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U293	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. No further questions for you. I invite Erki Savisaare, Chairman of the Environment Committee, to attend the chair as co-rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U294	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed this draft on 23 September. Mr Kaupo Heinma, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, Hendrik Huntt, Head of the Environmental Technology Department, and Maria Karus, Adviser, and Eda Pärtel, Head of the Legal Department were invited to the debate. Eda Pärtel gave an overview of the draft. I am not going to repeat the substance of the draft, the Minister has done it very thoroughly here. The members of the Commission first had a question about the large coordination table, which stated how the stakeholders had expressed their views. We found out what the main concerns were. Hendrik Huntt replied that stakeholders' proposals were primarily related to changes in state fees and that a number of stakeholders' proposals were taken into account during the coordination of the draft. The basic principle of the imposition of state fees will be cost-orientation and raised concerns in the interest groups. Huntt said that services would be made more efficient, but that the fees would partly increase compared to the ones in force, as the areas had not been looked at on a uniform basis in the past. Certain incentives have also been introduced, such as exemptions from state fees for water-expansioners who do not produce hydropower. Then there was the question of the comments of the Cities and Municipalities Association, which have not been taken into account. We were told that the draft does not change the current situation and changes only the permit granting process, that the local authority is involved in the procedure and is taken into account. Also, if an application for an environmental permit is submitted, the local authority will be informed immediately. The question was about the nature of the permit, that if in the past a complex permit was necessary from some level of pollution, then are all permits complex permits now. We learned that this is not the case, the thresholds across Europe remain the same, and the requirements for complex permits remain the same. So, what were the more important things? The question of local government was that, if the local government did not agree, would it be entitled to exercise the right of veto. Heinma replied that the opinion of the local government was not binding, but that it had to be taken into account. In the case of a mining permit only, the Government of the Republic has the right to decide without a local government. In the light of the amendments to the law, the grounds for refusal provide a better discretion as to why not to issue permits, and this also gives local authorities more rights to participate. We also asked about the complexity of the process. If there was a separate permit before, and now there's a big form for all the permits, will it get more complicated for the company? We got the answer, so it should get easier. The application for a permit must be filled in only those fields relating to the specific environmental permit requested do not have to complete all ten items. We also looked into savings. The bill should lead to resource savings both for businesses and for the granting of permits. The Commission has decided unanimously to send this draft to the debate in this Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U295	Thank you. Looks like there's no questions for the co-rapporteur. It is possible to open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate either. Thus, the first reading of draft 55 has been completed and the deadline for submitting amendments is set at 5.15 p.m. on 23 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U296	Okay. We will go to the following item: Draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Space Agency on the Accession of Estonia to the Convention establishing a European Space Agency 49. This is the first reading, the waitress is Secretary of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Kert Kingo. Please, Madam Secretary!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U297	Mr President, Members of the Chamber. I give a brief overview of Estonia's relationship with the European Space Agency and then the content and purpose of this amendment to the law. Estonia has been a full member of the European Space Agency since 2015. ESA shall be used as an abbreviation for the European Space Agency. Every year, Estonia's contribution to the ESA budget is 2.6 million euros, and in this value Estonian research institutions and companies receive project support. So far, Estonian companies have been successful, and as one of the few new Member States, Estonia has managed to bring back the invested money as projects. This is acknowledged by the Estonian refund coefficient, which is currently 1.05, i.e. Estonian companies, research institutions and the Estonian ESA delegation are doing very well in the ESA system. The new members have an industrial initiative in the ESA, which will help companies in the new Member States to better enter the ESA system so that they can compete with other European companies later. So far, the "industrial initiative" measure aimed at Estonian industry amounted to EUR 500000. In 2018, ESA decided to set a threshold of EUR 750000 for industrial initiative measures, resulting in an increase of the Estonian measure from EUR 500000 to EUR 750000. The duration of the measure was also extended from six to nine years. This amendment shall automatically apply to new accession members and shall not have retroactive effect on full members. Now comes the content of this bill. In order to extend these benefits to Estonia, it is necessary to amend the agreement to join the Estonian ESA, which was concluded in 2015, the agreement approved by the ESA Council in December 2018. The aim of the draft is to ratify the amendment to the international cooperation agreement with the European Space Agency in order to enable our industry to have projects accompanying the Industrial Initiative action instead of EUR 500000 to date. I would stress that this change does not bring additional obligations on the state, but brings money back to us on better terms. The same amendment was proposed by ESA to Romania, which was ratified in the summer of 2019. It was a brief summary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U298	Thank you. Do honourable colleagues have any questions? Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U299	Thank you. I did not catch up with this review, so perhaps you will say briefly what is the reason and content for amending this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U300	The reason and content is that when we joined the Space Agency in 2015, it was a condition that Estonia would receive EUR 500000 per year of project support. There was now an amendment to ESA, which led to an increase in the amount of aid to EUR 750000, and Estonia was given the opportunity to enter this new measure as well. Although we are already members and this new measure was intended only for new members, Estonia and a few other countries were given the opportunity to enter this period of action, so that we would also receive a grant of EUR 750000 instead of the current EUR 500000. Perhaps our conditions improved considerably and opportunities increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U301	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U302	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You also said something about the period of time, that it was five years and that it would extend to nine years. Is it because, if it extends to nine years, we will not lose this amount of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U303	Thank you for your question. No, we are not losing, because so far, it was still EUR 500000 each year. If we join this new direction in 2019, we are about to have EUR 750000 and in total until 2024. This period started from 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U304	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U305	Thank you. I'll try, maybe I'll get smarter. In general, the draft law does not regulate such an increase in rights internationally. What is the reason why the right to receive more money from the Space Agency requires a bill? We do not take on responsibilities with this, but rather we take on responsibilities with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U306	Thank you for your question. This decision to increase the amounts of this measure had to be taken by the European Space Agency and we were given the opportunity to enter this measure under new conditions. Of course, this is not an obligation for us, but it is a very good opportunity. We joined at the moment when these measures were EUR 500000 each year, and now there will be EUR 750000.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U307	Got it. No further questions. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I invite Mikhail Korb, member of the Economic Commission, to attend the chair as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U308	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 23 September. Seven members attended the meeting and two were absent. The draft was presented by Mr Kert Kingo, Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology. The Commission meeting discussed the size of Estonia's annual membership fee and whether this measure would apply only to the new Member States. Members of the Commission were interested in which projects have received ESA funding and why the ratification law is first adopted and then the agreement will be signed. All the questions were answered exhaustively. At its meeting, the Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 9 October, and it decided to set five working days by which the amendments would be tabled and proposed to close the first reading, which was decided by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U309	Thank you. Do honourable colleagues have any questions for the co-rapporteur? No, I don't. Is there a desire to negotiate? There is no wish to participate in the negotiations, so the procedure for this draft is closed today. First reading of Bill 49 is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 16 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U310	Now comes the last item, which reads as follows: the first reading of the draft law amending the consular law initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with it, the law amending other laws. The rapporteur is Minister of Defence Jüri Luik. Please, Minister, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U311	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am here as acting Minister of Foreign Affairs, who, as you know, is on a foreign visit first in the United States and later in France. The draft law amending the consular law is due to very practical reasons, in particular to create flexibility and to alleviate the increased burden on foreign agencies. Since 2013, the volume of consular activities in the offices has increased by nearly 40% and according to the law, consuls have to perform a number of activities that could actually be carried out by people who do not have a consul invitation and who are not diplomats. That is why the draft proposes the establishment of a consular secretary providing consular services. The consular secretary is not a consul, he does not perform the main duties of the consul, but he may, for example, hand out passports, ID cards and e-residency cards. This section of work takes away a pretty strong part of the daily working hours of the consuls, as it is the duty to hand these documents to citizens in person in order to verify their identity. In fact, all this work, which can also be done very calmly by the consular secretary, who does not have a consul invitation, is trained by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which in practice probably means additional training for consular secretaries who are already working at embassies. I'm done with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U312	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. Do noble colleagues have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. As co-rapporteur, I would like to ask Enn Eesmaa, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee for a chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U313	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs prepared this draft for the first reading at its meeting on 23 September. Mr Erki Kodar, Deputy Chancellor for Legal and Consular Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Ms Tiina Nirk, Director-General of the Consular Department, took part in the discussion. The Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions by consensus: it is proposed that 44 drafts be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for Wednesday, 9 October for the first reading, and Enn Eesmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the draft by decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-09_U314	Thank you. Any questions for the co-rapporteur? It doesn't look like it. It's clear. Then there is the opportunity to open negotiations; the representatives of the political groups will be able to speak on this issue. No one has made a wish for this, so the negotiations are off. The procedure for the draft is over for today. The first reading of Bill 44 has been completed, with the deadline of 23 October at 5.15 p.m. I'm sorry to inform you that the hearing is over. Closure of the sitting at 5.56 p.m.
