ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's start our three-day briefing. First, please check your presence! There are 47 delegates and 54 missing. Today we have the following members of the government: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik and Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk. Words shall be given in accordance with the questions registered. There are two minutes to ask the question and three minutes to reply. An additional detailed question can also be submitted by the Registered Asker.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U2	Let us start with the first question put by Indrek Saar to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U3	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister! You have repeatedly pointed out the priorities set out in your coalition agreement and, in particular, the following: you have formulated in the coalition agreement that you promote a coherent, caring and tolerant society whose members feel safe and involved in society, and resolutely condemn the manifestations of hatred between peoples, anti-Semitism and the rhetoric that divides society. But let us recall, looking back, how Martin Helme attacked the women's doctors in March, accusing them of violating the Hippocrates oath. At the end of July, Mart Helme announced at the EKRE Council that scientists were not doing their job properly. In particular, he accused the University of Tallinn of raising horse thieves of a non-existent scientific level. In recent times, women without children, people with a different sexual orientation, people with a different skin colour and a different nationality, even a singing revolution, have also fallen into the teeth of EKRE, which has been said to have been a mass hysteria, and thus tens of thousands of people standing for Estonia's independence. The opera itself is a news portal of your government partner, which is indiscriminately attacking, raging, and insulting. One of the targets has recently been Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Through this, the coalition partner of the Centre Party EKRE has conducted systematic harassment of the Estonian LGBT community in recent weeks. There is a war against the funding of the LGBT Society, which has harassed and disparageed young people and youth workers, with the participation of politicians and employees of the government union. Unfortunately, there is no end to all of this. As Prime Minister, what are you doing to make society more coherent rather than increasingly polarised?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. It is true that, both in the previous government and in this government, it has been a very important priority for me that Estonian society is as coherent as possible. I have always started my presentation in higher national defence courses with some of the words that our security, our security, begins with how much 1.3 million keep together. And I stand by my words today. I'm trying to answer your questions. First of all, Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik and his attacks against him. Tanel has certainly done his job with great dedication, professionally, well. He has stood up for all the social groups that the Ministry of Social Affairs manages and covers, be they families, be they children, be they elderly, be it LGBT. So I think he's certainly been up to his responsibilities. Now, as far as financing for LGBT is concerned, the questioner certainly knows very well that the application for and payment of gambling tax has changed, these parts have gone under different ministries. Whoever gets the money and how much it gets will be decided by the Commission. As far as I know, the Minister of Social Affairs does not belong to this committee. If I answer you on the basis of my own sense, I think that LGBT has been funded before, funded today and if the project meets the conditions, then in any case, the application will have to be financed in the future. I think that the more important focus and the essence of this issue is, in fact, what we are doing with regard to demonstrations. On the one hand, different demonstrations are allowed in a democratic society. There's been a lot of protests lately in front of Stenbock's house, nice people. But, of course, it is not permissible to sow anger in verbal or physical ways. And that's what I do every day so that anger doesn't exist in Estonian society. Different groups of Estonian society, including different minorities, have your question focused primarily on the LGBT community, must feel safe in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U5	Thank you. Specific question, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U6	As Prime Minister, do you acknowledge that coherence has been constantly questioned by your coalition partner in society? And do you have any specific action plan on how to solve the constant problem that makes different groups of people, including minorities, feel less secure in Estonia because of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U7	Thank you. No, I certainly do not agree that only the EKRE is the measure of coherence. Speaking of today's coalition, I have always been of the opinion that the more broad the coalition is, the better it will be able to convey the wishes of the various parties in society, the different interest groups, and the greater the compromise will be found within the coalition. Today's coalition consists of two conservative parties and one liberal party. I think this is actually the strength of today's coalition. Now someone to break the coherence and hold more is a very subjective assessment. EKRE, Social Democrats, Isamaa, Reform Party, Centre Party But I think it is even more important that everyone represents Estonia as a whole, the people of Estonia as a whole. Everyone must stand for this, both in the opposition and in the coalition. For years, one measure of coherence in Estonian society has been how the Estonian-language and Russian-speaking community gets along on a daily basis and what support these communities have for the European Union, NATO, for example. This has been appreciated for years by the Ministry of Defence in its on-demand analysis. And it is pleased to note that, if we look, for example, at support for the European Union or support for NATO, it has generally increased. It has not decreased in the Estonian-speaking community, but it has increased in the Russian-speaking community. So I think that, too, is a very good measure of coherence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U8	Thank you. And now the question of the floor. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U9	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good Prime Minister! You've broken up a lot with your subject. Return to your coalition partner and his values. You once said you wouldn't cooperate with EKRE values. Today, I think it is clear to all of us that the EKRE does not have any values. What they do is a cheap political theater for votes. But there are consequences. Mr Ratas, in your inauguration speech, you promised a smiling, coherent and solidarity-based Estonia. Last week, however, your government parter, EKRE, organised a demonstration, and we saw and heard such opinions as those that sexual minorities were flawed, faggotism was a crime during the Soviet era, as if it were something we wanted back, hands away from children in an incomprehensible way, etc. I think it's a cheap political theater, but it's very divided. As Prime Minister, do you consider it necessary and demand that the government partner apologize to the young people of Tartu, or do you intend to do so yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U10	Thank you. Well, I don't know, speaking of cheap political theater here, I remember the last time your party chairman made a comparison with the Beach House, I don't even know what this show is. This labelling that who does the political theater and who deals with the content is difficult to assess anyway. The opposition sees this political theater the same way, the coalition the same way. Now about the protests and who's running some kind of protests. The Centre Party has held many demonstrations over the years. I remember when they wanted to sell the power plants, there was a huge demonstration in front of Toompea Castle years ago. The sentiments are a hallmark of a democratic society; I certainly cannot blame them in any way. As I said to the previous questioner, can you imagine that the good women and men standing there in front of Stenbock's house and demonstrating are somehow bad people? If it's done peacefully, I don't see a problem here. But if it involves verbal anger, let alone physical assault, then these things have a completely different blade. It is important to make sure that there are no such things in society and to do everything proactively so that such demonstrations do not take place in Estonia. But your focus is once again on the protection of sexual minorities. Of course, they must also be protected in society, in any case, and every effort must be made to ensure that hate-boosting messages do not spread in society, but the same applies to all other minorities in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U12	Next, the question has been registered by Kaja Kallas and the question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U13	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! When you released Kert Kingo from office, you said: 'The politician must be open in his dealings with fellows and the public, as well as give clear and exhaustive answers to legitimate questions on unpleasant subjects. ' I therefore hope that we will see you provide these clear and exhaustive answers in this Question Time. By releasing Minister Kingo, you condemned the act he committed. And the act was that he lied to the public, lied to the Riigikogu. My question concerns the continuity of your views and actions, because you have a number of ministers in the government who have been caught lying, having lied to both the public and the Riigikogu. Let's start from a distance. The Minister of the Interior Mart Helme lied about his mistrust in the Riigikogu four times. First of all, he told EKRE about the phone call they made to Marti Kuusik's wife that Jüri Ratas was wrong. Then he lied about doing election agitation on election day without knowing. Later it became clear that he himself had stated that today was election day, so he broke the law and deliberately lied. He then claimed that the criminal proceedings against Marti Kuusik had not been initiated either. The Minister of the Interior lied about Delfi having faked pictures. This list could be continued. The Minister of Finance has lied about Deutsche Welle, and he also lied about Elmar Vaher. I can't even count all those lies. The Minister of Rural Affairs Mart Järvik has repeatedly lied about the listerial scandal that he has not seen the answers to the samples, has not communicated with Mati's Waterflow, has no solid evidence, has not interfered with the research process, etc. I know this list is very long and tiring, but the question at the end is short and clear: what are you going to do with the other lying ministers of your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U14	Thank you. If you ask clear and specific questions, then I will also give clear and exhaustive answers. There is, of course, no place in lying about politics. It is very unambiguous, and that is what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U15	Thank you. Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U16	That's what we're supposed to do. It's a good thing you said so clearly that you can't stand lying. I have here a whole list of factually verified statements from Martin Helme. For example, in Elmar Vaher's case, he lied that there was nothing illegal about the attempt to dismiss him. He lied about the fact that in the communication of cuts, Vaher did his own business, and that was not true. In the case of the Kert Kingo scandal, the Minister of Finance lied that there were 26 million euros hidden in MKM, of which nothing has been said to the Minister, and this proved to be a lie. Now I repeat my question, which was very clear: what are you going to do with those ministers who are obviously repeatedly and repeatedly caught lying to both the public and the Riigikogu? What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U17	Thank you. First of all, on your first question, you spoke of election agitation. I'm not an EKRE lawyer, but I think it's a fine that's been collected. Speaking of the previous Foreign Trade and Information Technology Minister, it was his decision to resign. So in his case, a specific action by him has followed. If you ask me what I intend to do, of course the Prime Minister's role is to ensure that the government works as a team. His role is also to ensure that there is no lying. But there is one thing we need to take into account here: if you come to the government as such a white leaf, completely green, the sense of how much a politician's word weighs is undoubtedly very different from having an experience such as you and the Reform Party that has been in power for 17 years. In some of the cases you mentioned, ministers have said that they have been wrong and will try to resolve these situations much better and more transparently in the future. So surely, in some cases, when people admit their guilt and when it is not a deliberate lie, they must be given the opportunity to move forward. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U18	Thank you. Next Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Listening to your speeches and analyzing these answers gives the impression that this is in some respects a double standard of morality. With regard to the same question, it could be said that what is promised to Bells is not allowed to women. It's very disturbing in society. I expect and hope that the Prime Minister, in his actions, also in the future, will be the keeper of a common sense of value in this matter and will follow a single standard, as was said in the old days. Can you confirm my proposal or claim that you are acting alike? And if you act the same, there would be two options: whether Kert Kingo would continue as a minister today or Mart Helme would no longer be a minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U20	Thank you. I will say once again, in answer to the previous question, that Kert Kingo has left the ministerial office on the basis of his voluntary statement. Point one. Point two is that it is very disturbing for me how you, politically and completely arbitraryly, arbitrarily put together two comparisons. And on purpose, what Mr Indrek Saar actually asked for, concerned about the cohesion of society, you are deliberately putting it together. You say you see, there's a man here and there's a woman here. It's disturbing to me. There's no basis for this comparison to make a connection. Kert Kingo said that in order for the government to move forward, he would take a decision and leave the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U22	Next, Riina Sikkut has a question for Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U23	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I am very pleased that since you took office, you have actually stood up for the reform of the pharmacy. In July, you have said that this transitional period for pharmaceutical reform has been sufficient. In August, you have stated that the pharmacy must be primarily a health care facility and not be like a regular store. In October, too, it was confirmed that the pharmacy service should be a clear health care service, not a commercial activity, but based on human health. And the country paper also said that if a pharmacy is left unsold in a large shopping centre or shuts down, it will not really be a bigger problem. I am very pleased about this because already in 2012, the National Audit Office found that we actually have a weak competitive situation on the pharmacy market. Pharmacies are held by two major wholesalers and do not have any incentive to trade prices. The National Audit Office found that hospital pharmacies receive their medicines about 10% cheaper than those sold in retail pharmacies, although the amount of retail sales is actually higher. So, in fact, in 2012, the patient paid for this expensive drug. The profits of the wholesalers and chain pharmacies were paid off by the patient, the chronically ill patient, the older person, the low-income person. I would ask whether, in the seven years that have passed since the conclusions of the audit of the National Audit Office, something has improved in itself. What are the prices of medicines? Has it happened by itself that the patient no longer carries such a burden? Or would it still be necessary to complete the reform of the pharmacy, both in the interests of better access to medicines for patients and in order to ensure that pharmacies are health care institutions and aimed at promoting human health, rather than so much at commercial purposes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U24	Mrs Sikkut, thank you for your question. The pharmaceutical market and the prices of medicines as a whole are, of course, a problem that the whole of Europe, the whole world, is dealing with. On these European Union meetings, are these World Health Organisation meetings, this issue is still on the table, because very often it is true that not all countries are always able to provide themselves with affordable medicines. The issues of joint procurement are discussed, the regulation of prices at European Union level is discussed more widely, so that smaller regions such as Estonia can obtain medicines at reasonable prices for their people. This issue is undoubtedly important. In Estonia, the regulation of medicines prices is broadly applied so that the Marketing Authorisation Holder sets its own price plus wholesaler mark-up, retailer mark-up and VAT at 9%. As far as the price of medicines paid by people is concerned, I would answer the question, which has improved, that, during the previous government period, it became very clear that we introduced an additional reimbursement for prescription medicines, which, in fact, meant a cost of EUR 10.3 million for the state budget, which was a cost for the taxpayer, but for specific target groups who had a higher need for medicines, this meant a very significant reduction in their own contribution. This decreased by 8% on average compared to 2017. Thus, it can be said that the acquisition of medicines has become somewhat easier for people. More specifically, as you are well aware, the additional reimbursement for costs exceeding EUR 100 is 90% for costs exceeding EUR 50% and EUR 300, and this benefit is added to what the health insurance fund has already compensated for in advance for the price of medicines on the list of preferential medicines. If we add up these numbers to the state's contribution to improving access to medicines specifically for people, we will receive an amount of 146,5 million for the previous year. This is complemented by hospital medication compensation from the health insurance fund, which is another 70 million, so we contribute 217 million in total. Could pharmaceutical prices be cheaper on the market? Could price transparency be better? Sure. There is room for improvement in Estonia, Europe, the world as a whole. Very often, there is talk of new medicines, where it is sometimes difficult to understand exactly what the cost of research is and what the mark-up is and whether the price to be set corresponds to the medicinal product's therapeutic properties. These studies and other studies will be carried out, they will be discussed, but I think that international cooperation is very important here. I have discussed this with my colleagues from the Baltic States as well as, as has been said, Europe at large and representatives of the World Health Organisation. Hans Kluge, the new director of the WHO European region, also has ideas on how this situation could be improved, on how to move forward. I really hope this works. There is no doubt that there is nothing wrong with making a profit from a private business point of view, but in the case of medicines, which are usually compensated by countries, a fair price must be imposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U25	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U26	Thank you. I understood that progress on the reform of the pharmacy was still a sensible plan in terms of prices. But now, as a result of the reform of the pharmacy, there would be a more health care-centred pharmacy system in Estonia, based primarily on the patient's health concerns and where advice is given, we could all actually make an effort in this direction. I am concerned that Tõnis Mölder, the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, has recently started to talk about alternative options, including the free market of the pharmacy, for non-prescription medicines to come to regular shops. Do you think this free market option should even be on the table? If there is actually so much positive for the patient in completing the pharmacy reform, for the healthcare system as a whole, should not the parties be given a clear message to both chain pharmacies and pharmacists that please start handing over and taking over pharmacies? Why create additional confusion and uncertainty instead of sending out a clear message that the reform will go to the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U27	Thank you for your question. As for the open debate, it would certainly be wrong to ban it, I think. The reform of the pharmacy was discussed at length and in depth when taking decisions during the governments that were already in office in the previous Parliament in 2014‐2015. It was also discussed in the previous Parliament when the deadline for the branch pharmacies was postponed to 1 April 2020. And these debates, as you can see, will continue in this Parliament. With regard to the various developments, the different options, I think the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee has rightly said. He said what the options had been on the table, what the thoughts of both market participants and politicians have come up with. Having participated in this working group, it is true that the proposals are, you could say, to the extent that we have discussed almost 20 options here in writing or orally. They concern both the strengthening of pharmacist property, the ownership of today's property, deadlines, the treatment of rural and urban areas, either individually or together. One particular point has indeed been that it is not a new idea in itself that could be allowed to sell certain medicines in shops and also in fuel chains, which has long been discussed. I personally do not support this particular proposal. I'll explain why. I think that if we start to offer medicines, even simpler over-the-counter medicines, in shops and supermarkets and in fuel plants, first of all, excessive drug consumption, or consumption, will increase more than the real need. At the same time, we are creating problems particularly in rural areas, where, for example, the turnover of pharmacies is starting to decrease by this. There already today are mainly pharmacists who hold these pharmacies in many ways, perhaps out of a sense of mission. If they are taken away from a certain share of the turnover that is transferred to supermarket chains and elsewhere, this automatically means that keeping a pharmacy in rural areas becomes even more difficult. In the city, considering that we often have several pharmacies in the chain of commerce, pharmacies are likely to be able to cope. But here too, I think it is important to advise people on whether to take one medicine or another, what amount to take, or maybe something else to take, or to seek medical advice, such as a family doctor. We rightly expect this from pharmacists and pharmacists, but we cannot expect that from shop or fuel station customer servicemen. Maybe I don't support this direction personally. But, as I said, debates have been held for weeks, debates have been held and positions have been expressed already, in fact, before the elections. Whether and what exactly is being changed in the reform of the pharmacy, this is now clear during the discussions. I've explained my position in the past. I consider the reform of the pharmacy to be the right direction. I think it is right that we are talking about separating retail and wholesale. That we want to strengthen the role of pharmacists in the market, which I think is also right, because really, as you rightly pointed out, pharmacists are not just customer servicemen, but they are still trained, teachers of pharmaceutical science who have completed five years of study, who have a very clear understanding of what the recommendations of today's health sector are to people, and whose sense of ethics and mission are certainly high.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U28	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question is about the working group that has just been set up; on the previous question, you have partly answered that question. The government has set up a working group to deal with the reform of the pharmacy. Both pharmacists and chain pharmacies' owners have offered to help. However, your party partner, Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, has told Delfi that he considers it necessary or possible to involve pharmacists only when the procedure reaches the Riigikogu. And that is my question: who will be involved in this working group first? After all, it would be reasonable if, in addition to the coalition, it did not even venture to include the opposition, these other parties would also be involved, so that things would have been cleared up before the discussion came to the Riigikogu. It is not very responsible if only the owners of chain pharmacies participate in the working group and the pharmacists are only involved in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. I will add another addition because perhaps there is a bit of a misrepresentation in the media, that one thing is a working group, the other is the Social Affairs Committee. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has certainly not made any decisions, because it has not been in this form in the debate. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has only held hearings. It is simply said for the sake of verbatim and clarity, because unfortunately, the media have sounded like the Committee on Social Affairs had already decided something. But who will first be involved in the work of this working group?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U30	Thank you very much for the questions. As far as human involvement is concerned, it has been done in a spirit of strength. I myself have met everyone, or well that is an exaggeration, but in any case with different parties: representatives of wholesalers, representatives of the Chamber of pharmacists and of the Union of Pharmacists, importers of medicines, people in the health sector in general. We have had debates with Members of Parliament both inside and outside the coalition. As far as the coalition working group is concerned, indeed, as it may be customary, politicians organise this work first and foremost in their circles, but we will, of course, include expertise from outside. For example, as Minister of Social Affairs, I myself have put on the table the views of the Agency, various legal perspectives, as well as previous analyses and debates, which have been broader. As far as specific legislative changes and ideas are concerned, the Social Affairs Committee set up the first meeting with all the parties I know, with pharmacists and a pharmacy association at the table. Such meetings must certainly be held later in the course of the work if there are any suggestions on the table to discuss them and listen to what market participants think of them. Yesterday, on my own initiative, I invited an association of pharmacies, a chamber of pharmacists, and an association of pharmacists to the ministry. Regrettably, two-thirds of them arrived, or the Chamber of pharmacists, and an alliance of pharmacists. It is true that the period of notice was short, but in many respects because the time frame for the discussions has been relatively rapid. It is also true that their own proposal, the so-called media proposal, did not become public until Monday morning. We wanted to discuss it together, negotiate it, listen to their thoughts and listen to the thoughts of the pharmacists, and also give us the perspective of the ministry and the Agency. I think that if we do these working groups in a number of different combinations, formats, this debate will be very scattered and the overview, the continuity may be lost. Rather, it makes sense to do them together when both parties are at the table, both representatives of wholesalers, or representatives of pharmacy chains, and representatives of pharmacists. That was what I proposed. It is also true that, as of yesterday, we have told them that our desire to meet is still in force. All three major contacts with the Ministry and the EMA are welcome to meet. It could probably be next week. But before I propose a new time, of course, it would be good to know if all the parties are coming. Otherwise, I may just abuse the time of others who came in yesterday despite this short notice. However, the debate was nevertheless fruitful and meaningful, and I am sure that if the debate comes at some point from the coalition working group to the Social Committee, it will also be substantive, because the subject is important. Pharmacies and pharmaceutical services concern everyone in Estonia, the health sector, the business sector, and competition issues. This debate must, in any case, be broad-based.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U31	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U32	Next, Signe Riisalo asks and answers Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U33	Thank you, good manager. Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik! A good introduction to the subject has been made, and I will continue on the subject of pharmacies. It is true that further amendment of the pharmaceutical law over the next six months is theoretically possible, but today we do not know whether it will be changed and in what form it will be done. Therefore, the Ministry under your command, its officials and sub-offices must prepare for the implementation of the existing, existing law. Discussions surrounding the reform of the pharmacy, conjecture is disturbing. They are disturbing for the parties, also disturbing people who wish to consume the pharmacy service. That is why I would like you to explain what the steps you and your administration are taking now. What risks have been mapped out in case the pharmacy reform takes place in its existing form and how have these risks been mitigated today? So far, we have realised that there are no problems; the provision of pharmacy services will continue in the process of reform. Perhaps you could describe the future of the reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U34	Thank you for your question. As far as the risks are concerned, of course there are risks for each reform, even in this case. In particular, in cooperation with the Agency, we have made a comprehensive map of which pharmacies are currently meeting the requirements that will apply to market participants in Estonia on 1 April 2020 and which do not yet meet the requirements and where something needs to be adapted and where ownership needs to be changed. We have also been in contact with the Chamber of Pharmacists, the Pharmacists' Association and the Pharmacies' Association in order to help boost cooperation between us, particularly when dealing with sales and purchases. The reality is that setting a fair price has proved to be an obstacle. If, from the point of view of sellers, the fair price is two or three times higher than in the view of buyers, it is very difficult to reach an agreement if you have ever been in the real estate sector for quite several years. And that's what these numbers have shown. Today, 1 November, 173 pharmacies fully meet the requirements of the pharmacy reform, which is 35% of all pharmacies. More broadly, we actually have a total of 210 pharmacies with pharmacist participation, some of which have to be adjusted or amended in order to bring them into line with the law. The key question really is whether wholesalers are going to adjust their pharmacies or wait for the decisions of the coalition working group and only then make their choice. From a risk point of view, it may be difficult for these applications to come at the same time, for example within a short period of time in the last few months for 300 pharmacies, which need to be dealt with either by their dissolution, by changing their ownership or by setting up a new pharmacy. Then, of course, the question arises as to whether we can do this in terms of administrative capacity. I have proposed here, as one possible solution, to make a transition, perhaps in stages, for example by region: to decide whether to start in rural areas and then to take up cities and settlements of different sizes, or to operate geographically, on the basis of counties. This would help to smooth the transition, help to focus on a specific region, its needs. This is the job we've been doing today. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs have met several rural municipalities. I have also been in correspondence myself, communicating in Saaremaa, Harjumaa, South-East Estonia and many other places; I was in Mustvee only yesterday. Perhaps the idea is that this step-by-step approach might be better in order to smooth the transition. This would also help to ensure a more reasonable administrative burden for the Agency, allowing a high-quality and thorough verification of who are then the founders and who are the changers of ownership. This would also help to ensure that the pharmacy service is not disrupted during the transitional period, but that this transition is smooth. This is one possible proposal, which we will certainly be discussing in the coalition working group today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U35	A more specific question, please, Riina Sikkut! Sorry, Signe Riisalo!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U36	Thank you. As a minister, you are in a rather uncomfortable position. You must do everything you can to complete the reform, and at the same time, the coalition, which includes your own party, is working hard to change the medicine law again. It is amazing that we only hear clear views through the media, in fact from professional associations and service providers, businesses, pharmacists, pharmacists. Perhaps it would be wise if more meaningful explanations were given to the public by members of the government? It's on one side. And on the other hand, what is your assessment of a situation where people are completely confused? And now I'm not talking, okay, about pharmacists, pharmacists, chain pharmacies or wholesalers, but just people who wonder if their home pharmacy is going to be left open, whether they get their medications, whether the price changes, whether there are any problems with availability, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U37	Thank you for your question. Various explanations, various comments, various interviews I have given on this subject since I took office. If they haven't been clear enough, I'll try to be more specific. But it is also true, as I have referred to, because at the moment these issues are on the table in the coalition, they are discussed, that there is no word or sentence in the coalition agreement, either in one direction or in another, about exactly what is being done with the reform of the pharmacy. That is why it will be very difficult to say today, at 100%, what we will have in April 2020. However, as far as people are concerned, I assure you that the pharmacy service will continue to be guaranteed throughout Estonia. This is in the interest of all market participants. I think that this kind of intimidation or such unwarranted anxiety, like going to hundreds of pharmacies across the country now, I really don't think so. Because the very simple logic says that today's pharmacists have an interest in building and owning pharmacies, wholesalers have an interest in marketing medicines, also offering them in future, either in pharmacists or in their own pharmacies. The health sector, the ministry has an interest. Parliament has an interest in having a pharmaceutical service available, and a pharmacy service available. People, local governments have an interest. There are no parties on the market who would actually benefit from it if there were to be some kind of large-scale closure. This is also the reason why I say with conviction, based purely on both logic and information obtained at various meetings, that there will be no such blocking. As I said, when discussing various changes in the coalition's working group, the discussion of different issues is primarily about ensuring access to pharmaceutical services in the future. The importance is not only the total number of pharmacies living in Estonia today, but also their geographical distribution. Indeed, if in some major centres there is a drop in the availability of medicines, either during the transitional period or permanently, then the availability of medicines will not actually deteriorate. However, it is important that in smaller municipalities, smaller regions, the pharmacy service is guaranteed in the future. Today, two thirds of the pharmacies there are with the participation of pharmacists. This already shows that the overall geographical picture is quite good, i.e. that mostly substandard pharmacies are located in cities, larger centres. Together with the Agency, we regularly look at these areas, the places where there are branch pharmacies, the places where the pharmacies belonging to today's wholesalers are located, and we look for pharmacists who would like to set up a pharmacy there. There are so many of them to know personally. Of course, this work must be carried out both during and after the discussions of the coalition working group, regardless of the specific decisions taken in the working group of the coalition, which will later be discussed in the Chamber, and of the final compromise or decision that will leave this building.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U38	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! In answering Riina Sikkut's question, and in the past, as a minister to the public, you have given the impression that you are certainly a supporter of the reform that has been agreed here years ago, and that it could, as it were, be implemented. At least your speeches reflect this. You were also very optimistic in describing this meeting, where one of the compromises did not appear, and you were very positive that the debate was fruitful. I dare say that because I was able to see an interview that Mr Danilov gave on television, and from there I had the impression that they did not have the point of going to the ministry if the ministry wanted to discuss how to implement the existing law. The question arises as to whether you are very blue-eyed or whether these decisions are made elsewhere. And that's why there's a fight that what you're like to incarnate or show out to society isn't really true. One myth that is distributed to the public and intimidated is that the availability of pharmacies is reduced. If we compare ourselves with our neighbours, we can say that we have pharmacies closer to Finns almost two and a half times in terms of availability. They have one pharmacy for 6,000 residents, we have one pharmacy for 2700 residents. If this reform takes place and indeed there is a situation, as we are told, that new pharmacies will not be opened, because they will not sell, i.e. they cannot be opened, because they will not be sold, and others cannot be opened yet, because there is no point in making the pharmacy where it already exists, then how many places in Estonia, how many small places or settlements will be deprived of the pharmacy? In which particular area are we going to become worse than the European average in terms of availability?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U40	Thank you for your question. There were several questions. I'll start in a row. As far as the meeting is concerned, yesterday's debate, like all the other discussions in the Ministry, it was, of course, meaningful; there were many proposals on the table. Mr Danilov, who has indeed commented on this in the media, did not attend the meeting. It is therefore difficult to base its assessment on the fertility of the meeting. It is also true, as I said earlier, that if there is a desire to find a reasonable compromise, a common part, this can best be done by sitting down together, rather than exchanging press releases. So my proposal to cooperate with all parties is still in force. As far as Estonia is concerned, it is true, as you referred to, that we have considerably more pharmacies per capita than in Finland, in the Baltics as a whole. Maybe it's geographical, maybe there's other reasons. The measure of access to the pharmacy service is certainly not that all 490 pharmacies must remain forever in Estonia. The measuring tree really is more of a geographical location. We've done this mapping in cooperation with the Agency. As I referred to earlier, our aim and goal is clearly that, regardless of the form in which this reform is carried out, we will be guided by the law in force today. If changes are to be made, they must be taken into account. Then the pharmacy service across Estonia would be guaranteed and there would be no grey spots where availability would deteriorate. We have also discussed ways of ensuring access to medicines, for example, through the hospital network. One possible change could be to give hospitals the right to issue retail medicinal products if necessary, subject to the authorisation of the Agency in some exceptional circumstances. Such regional specificities in some respects must certainly be taken into account, the geographical distribution must be taken into account, but it must be said that in this particular region we foresee that there will be no such areas in the pharmacy. Rather, we see those areas where there are still no suitable pharmacies today and where there is a need to build more pharmacists or to change existing ownership. And we can see that in the majority of Estonia today the availability of medicines in the form of this 173 pharmacies is already guaranteed, but this work, as has been said, will definitely continue until April 2020 and will continue, as no reform will be completed at the moment when the transition period ends. Work on access to medicines, pricing policies, competition, transparency and everything else in this respect will certainly continue for me and my descendants.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U41	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U42	Let's go to the next question. Jaak Juske asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U43	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In mid-October, the Ministry of Education announced quite unexpectedly a new version of the kindergarten curriculum. When experts in their field began to criticize this rather backward document, Minister Mailis Reps stated that he had not read the paper, he had not read it. Then it became clear that he himself had written a preface to the same document. Today the Ministry has also confirmed that indeed, the Ministry of Education has commissioned this concept itself. It is clear that Minister Reps has been rattled and lied to the public. Mr Prime Minister, recently you took one of your government members to Kadriorg, which was a very commendable step. That's my question. When, Prime Minister, are you going to Kadriorg to deliver the resignation of Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps? I am asking for a very specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U44	Thank you, good questioner! I have no statement from the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, to resign.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U45	Thank you. Jaak Juske's more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U46	Mr Prime Minister! Then I will ask again specifically whether you consider it right that your government minister, Mrs Reps, has lied to the public on this subject, and whether you expect and expect to resign from her.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U47	Thank you. Well, then let's get to the contents of this case. I understand that we are talking about a pre-school curriculum, say, a reform, or a new curriculum. As far as I know, there's been a proposal. On this point, the Minister for Education and Research has asked experts in his field for an alternative approach, an alternative proposal. And now, as far as I know, both proposals have been put together at the Ministry of Education and Research to draw up a third proposal based on them. I've been asking the minister how long this job could take. He thinks it's gonna take a long time, not weeks, but months, maybe longer. Now, if you're asking if anyone has lied to a draft document or to a final document about writing an introductory text, then no, I have no idea that Mailis Reps would have lied. If you're asking me if I'm planning on taking his application to Kadriorg, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U48	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! My question is driven by the question of a good colleague. I was under the impression that if we asked Mailis Reps to write this statement, you would take it to Kadriorg. But now I realized you're not planning on taking it, even if Mailis Reps is writing that statement. You obviously don't understand the context. If there is a very large debate in society on different topics, and children's early childhood education is certainly an important issue that needs to be discussed, it is particularly important that ministers are adequate and give honest answers. If the Minister says that he has not studied the document or that he has not dealt with it, and later it turns out that he has actually wanted the so-called "expertise" and is writing a preface to it, it is a very bad sign. This looks really bad. You, Prime Minister, must agree. In fact, it makes us feel in this hall that this kind of lying and wrestling just becomes the norm. It is a value in itself that must be protected. And in that case, you have taken the initiative to defend this value today. But I would like to ask you a question, perhaps, on an area a little closer to my heart, and it concerns agriculture. According to farmers, the honourable Minister for Rural Affairs, Mr Järvik, went around the fields and businesses throughout the summer and said that transitional support was fully available in the budget strategy and would come. Now that we have the budget, using the phrase used here by the honourable Minister of Finance, the subsidies fell between two tables. There's no money. There's only 5 million. If the Minister has been like this and said that the money is there, how do you feel about it as Prime Minister? Mart Järvik has actually lied to farmers about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U50	Thank you, Mr. Kruuse! It is always interesting to debate with you and in very different areas. So let's get to the beginning of your story. Indeed, there are two ways in which the Prime Minister can take the Minister's statement to Kadriorg. I'm sure you know them well. One is if the minister himself wishes to resign, and the other is if the Prime Minister, on his own initiative, takes the President's proposal to dismiss the minister. I answered Mr Juske's question that I do not have a statement from Mailis Reps in which he would like to leave the government. That was Mr. Juske's first question. His second question was whether I, on my own initiative, intended to move Kadriorg's statement to release the Minister of Education and Research from his office, and I replied that he did not. You put together a complex structure, but I was just trying to unravel it. Then you made a very interesting transition and said that you would come to a subject closer to your heart, which is undoubtedly, given your serious experience, the agricultural and rural sectors. I immediately remembered Estonian literature classics. In fact, education and agriculture are very much connected. After all, education has also been driven outside Estonia to become a good farmer. So there is a strong link between these areas in your question, and I think it is adequate. Now, that $5 million you're talking about. You're absolutely right. I met with representatives of the leaders of the agricultural organisations. I cannot say that I had good news for them: yes, top-up grants, transitional grants, you see, it is possible to pay out at the maximum level. As we know at the moment, 2020 is the last year when they can be paid, because the new MFF has not yet been agreed and it is not known what will go beyond the top-up payments in 2021 to 2027. But the good news was what I said, and what the representatives of the agricultural organisations said, that for a while I knew it was two years, but they fixed me, it was three years before 2007 was zero on that line. Zero! The Estonian state told our farmers: zero euros of top-up grants. 2017 As we know, the situation changed, came to a maximum, 2018 came to a maximum and 2019 came to a maximum. For 2020, the Riigikogu has presented a budget of 5 million. It's not the maximum, but it's better than zero. So I guess we've all learned from our mistakes or from the mistakes of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U51	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U52	Next, Urmas Kruus will have the opportunity to ask a question and will answer Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! You have certainly brought yourself up to date that the European veterinary and food safety system is a very important system for the whole of Europe. This concerns both food safety supporting the export of companies and food safety related to so-called domestic consumption. This food safety has a few important cornerstones. One cornerstone is its transparency and independence, and the other one is science and knowledge-based regulation and expertise. In the listerial scandal this summer, a rather specific and dangerous trend has emerged, in my opinion, in which Minister Mart Järvik, on the one hand, has described the process in a way to the public, leaving some things to himself. One might say that it is a lying lie, in a sense, to comment on the facts of the press. And the second part relates to party leadership, literally, as far as party leadership is concerned. No minister can be a microbiologist, and even if he did, he shouldn't get into the system like that. I would like to know from you, as Prime Minister, why this is the case. Why am I asking you this? Because Mart Järvik is not very willing to answer questions from members of the Riigikogu and finds different legal reasons for this. But here at the press conference in October, you said that you would certainly make this clear to yourself and that you would also ask for an exchange of letters on which the public wanted information. Have you dealt with this and have you come to the same conclusion as, for example, 'Spectator' or other journalism, where there are clear indications that Mart Järvik has been a vassian in his statements and has lied to the public, claiming that he was not familiar with these matters and that he was only exposed to the subject on the strawberry market?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U54	Bring your final phrase to this rainy autumn with a beautiful recollection of strawberry year, but that's that. What do I think is the main thing? The main thing is to ensure that food products are safe, both in industry and online, and that the food sold is safe for everyone. That's what I think we're gonna have to do. I have also been in contact with the head of the VTA today, for example, and they have established such a zero tolerance for a certain case. I think that's the extremely right attitude, and I certainly congratulate them on that. On the other hand, our popular wisdom says that the lie has short legs. Now, your question has to do with whether one or the other side has been whipped up, I think you used that word. You referred to national broadcasting, referred to "The Spectator." These interviews with the Minister for Rural Affairs have, in my opinion, been more than that. One was even, if I wasn't mistaken, in the First Studio, which was also a social controversy about whether he was saying the right thing or saying it wrong. I'm telling you this way that today, on the basis of the information I know, I can't judge whether he's been lying. Each minister must be able to explain matters of his administration convincingly and exhaustively to the public and, of course, to members of the Riigikogu. I agree that there are still a number of questions in this case, to which the Minister for Rural Affairs, Mart Järvik, must provide clear and comprehensive answers. The Minister himself has expressed his dissatisfaction with the flow of information in his government area, and I very much hope that these problems will be resolved as a result of the cooperation between the parties. You also highlighted the possibility of asking the members of the Riigikogu between the lines. I think you actually meant your request for information, which you have put forward and which was said not to have to answer. I'm going to go from this most adorable field of agriculture to a legal area for a moment. Was it not a member of the Riigikogu, Mr Ossinovski, whose case led to this request for information at one point in time? I honestly say that I think a member of the Riigikogu could ask for information. That's my point of view. I guess we need to change the rules of a certain law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U55	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Urmas Kruuse has forgotten how he himself took down Ago Pärtel, Director-General of the VTA, eight months in the office of the Minister for Rural Affairs, pinning his own omissions and his indecisiveness to fight swine plague. By decree of the Minister of Rural Affairs Urmas Kruuse, the long-term Director-General of the Veterinary and Food Board Ago Pärtel, which was released from office in 2016, called Urmas Kruuse for high-level removal. And my question is, maybe you'll judge whether Urmas Kruuse didn't intervene in the activities of the department under his authority partyly. You can answer 'yes' or 'no' or longer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U57	Thank you. First of all, about this party intervention or party intervention. I also asked the head of the VTA today whether the current minister is in any way, I did not know, specifically, say politically that this case must not be investigated, or, I do not know, it must be paused. The answer to the VTA was that he hadn't said it. He hasn't said that. Indeed, the Minister has asked a lot of questions, perhaps more than previous ministers, perhaps very detailed questions, but to blame the Minister for asking about his area, I do not think. Now, in answering your question about Mr Urmas Kruus' term of office, I was not the Prime Minister then. Whether he intervened in the Reform Party, I don't know, forced by the back room, or, I don't know, forced by the Prime Minister, or really had any violations about why the head of office had to leave, unfortunately, I don't have any information for you today. But if you're interested, I can ask you to investigate why the VTA leader then resigned or was forced to resign.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U58	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I am very pleased that you have answered this question! But with regard to the previous question, I would like to be clear on the following: do you currently not have the information about Mart Järvik that you promised to find out at the press conference, and you have not reached the point of deciding and understanding whether Mart Järvik has lied, or are you not doing this more and breaking your promise at the government press conference? Helle-Moonika Helme, as well as the Honorable Prime Minister, could be explained by the fact that the head of the VTA and, in addition to him, the Vireen leader resigned because they were specifically involved in lying and forgery of accounts. There was no question. But I haven't noticed that today's government would treat lying the way it was at the time, during the rule of Taavi Clothing. I would like to make it clear that in times of crisis and disease, transparency and clarity must be absolute and 100%. As a result, our questions about lying may be so frequent as not to spoil the opportunities of Estonian exporters on any European or third country markets. If there is an understanding that the Minister is able to influence the analysis, then it means that the credibility of our food safety will be compromised. Does the Honorable Prime Minister intend to fulfill his promise to the public at the October press conference?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U60	Thank you. No, I think we're doing everything we can to ensure that there's no wrong or wrong or physical or mental violence. You have to do everything you can. And in that sense, you are right that when such things happen, our exports in various areas may be clearly under attack, as you said. At the moment, you are talking about VTA, but there are certainly areas in which such bad cases have happened, much more than that, I do not know, be it the economic sector, the EAS sector, etc. Now for what was asked at the press conference in October. Basically, the question was whether Mr Järvik lied or not in the First Studio. I've taken that answer out and I'm going to read it to you. The Minister's quote is this: 'I have not seen the answers to such a test, which has five times, or 500 units, as you are saying now. ' And then he adds: 'I got a call after work this evening, I think it was around 6:00 a.m., the vice chancellor, who claimed that there were probably new tracks in the rehearsals. That's all I know. I'm glad I was informed of this, because when the case started in March came up until August, I heard about it for the first time in the ministry. I don't know if I'm the one with me or I'm the one with this information (I'm going to add that there's information on listeria bacteria and factory problems. J. R.) was absent and for some reason this information was not passed on. 'That's the sentence, I understand what started asking after 'First studio' whether he's been lying or not. I think I've read that sentence about ten times now, and I have to admit, it's kind of hard to understand what was meant, what night was meant, etc. I'm saying this case of listeria bacteria is very serious. Many people have suffered health damage. As far as I know, based on VTA information, there have been deaths in 2017 and 2018. So, as I said to you, Mr Kruuse, on the first question, the Minister must give additional answers to this matter to the public and, of course, to members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U61	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U62	Next, the seventh question is from Evgeny Ossinovski. Reply by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U63	Dear Minister, The Prime Minister just said the lie has short legs. As far as pharmaceutical policy is concerned, the wrong one has not only long legs but also very deep pockets. If I come a little further to this topic, I will quote the 2012 audit of the National Audit Office. In particular, the National Audit Office found that 'the current organisation of the pharmaceutical market is not such as to ensure optimal prices and availability of medicinal products to patients'. And, of course, in order for competition to actually work, i.e. the patient to get the medicine at the best price possible, the pharmacies must once again quote 'there must be a possibility to choose between several wholesalers when buying the medicines'. This is not an opportunity, as we know, because two magnates have distributed a market of nearly 400 million euros among themselves, earning huge profits from Estonian patients. The fact that the patient's view is sour is confirmed by the fact that the hospital pharmacy, which does not sell medicines to the patient but supplies the hospital, receives medicines on average about 10% cheaper than retail pharmacies. And this is despite the fact that retail pharmacies actually buy much larger quantities. And the reason is, of course, obvious: hospital pharmacies buy medicines by purchasing, and this is one of the few places on the pharmaceutical market where competition between wholesalers actually works. From this we can conclude that patients pay at least 10% more for medicines at the pharmacy because the wholesaler asks for a higher price. And that means that patients are paying us tens and tens of millions of excessive prices because of the lack of competition between wholesalers. In this context, of course, it is not only strange but very disturbing that, a few months before this situation becomes more favourable to the patient, there is an open debate to change this reform under pressure. I am not asking why you are doing this because the answer is clear: it is political corruption. But the question is very simple. You have also repeatedly referred here today to the working group of the coalition outside the legal institutions, which will then decide on this issue. In the interests of the history of democracy in Estonia, could you appoint all nine members of this working group?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U64	Thank you for your question. Then let's start at the beginning. As of the moment, I am not tired of making any decisions on the reform of the pharmacy. And when we talk about decision-making, the working group set up in the Coalition Council can, of course, only make a decision on the surface of the coalition, but the laws in Estonia are amended by Parliament. Debates will certainly come in the Committee on Social Affairs and also in the large Chamber of Parliament if one, two or three legislative provisions are to be amended. As far as the working group is concerned, the majority of the members of the Social Committee and some ministers are part of it. Why I avoid naming them here is because the composition has changed somewhat. Rather, there has been an agreement that each party will send three representatives to the table, at most four. We have discussed this in different communities, not every time the membership has overlapd. I don't want to hurt anyone or point anyone out. There is, of course, the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, there is, of course, the Minister of Social Affairs, there are, of course, other ministers and members of the Social Affairs Committee, as well as other people. This is the standard form of work to be created in the coalition in the case of parliamentary democracy, which, as we know, was very successful in practice by the previous government in solving various issues. It is simply not conceivable that each topic will begin and end in the Coalition Council, which, as we know, I am talking about informal bodies, too, is not a legislative body, but such an association to ensure a better working rhythm and better cooperation. In essence, it is very transparent, as the fact that its meetings will take place and what decisions will be taken will also become known to the public. It is the same with the coalition's working group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U65	Thank you. Specific question, Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U66	Thank you. I'm sorry, I can't be satisfied with the answer. The question is that, of course, political forces and politicians are able to hold various meetings among themselves. It is simply, as you have said here too many times today and have reiterated publicly in the past, that the main emphasis on negotiations on possible changes is on this working group. You also said that many times today. Among other things, surprisingly, this has gone so far, and this confirms that this is political corruption, that the chains are no longer bothering to discuss this issue with the Ministry, and that they send the amendments directly to the coalition working group to protect their business interests. We've seen different e-mail addresses to whom they're sent. I think this is actually a very serious question. The way this change is being made is very dim. It is very dim that some people feel emotionally upset one morning and want to donate EUR 100000 to some parties. And people who have no contact with the Committee on Social Affairs or the pharmaceutical policy are dragging this issue forward, yet they are making very well-trained claims representing the interests of one party. It all raises deep doubts. In this sense, however, it is very important for the public to know which people will be involved in the preparation of this decision before it reaches the Riigikogu, in the procedure of the legislative body. There are really no reasons other than the jealous defence of business interests to hold this debate. So I'm going to repeat my question. Please indicate the persons who, on the last occasion, were part of this 3+3+3 working group. We know two of your party, you called them, from the Fatherland we know Priit Sibula and from the EKRE we know Moonika Helmet. Please name the rest of the members!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U67	Thank you for your question. I have to be completely honest with you that whoever is in the coalition task force this very evening is unknown to me. In addition to the above, the previous times have been subject to varying success, according to their work schedule and other possibilities, whether they have been in Estonia or abroad, such as the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Education and Science. It's no secret, these meetings have been public as a rule. As a rule, the press have also been there and often received comments before and after the meeting. There's definitely nothing opaque here. And Mr Espenberg, for example, has also been at the table as a member of the Committee on Social Affairs. In fact, each party has been able to be present according to who has been able to participate in the debate. The logical agreement has indeed been that the meetings of the working group will be set up according to what I have indicated that the members of the Social Affairs Committee will be able to participate in the first place, so that the Minister of Social Affairs can take part in a situation where legal or technical issues remain uncharted and undisputed. Representatives of all other parties have been different at meetings. It is just good practice that, on more or less parities basis, this working group meets: three representatives of each political party in the order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U68	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I am alarmed by such committees. They are trying to give the impression that there will also be a debate in Parliament. But that's what I'm worried about. Let's look at pension reform! International experts were also together at Eesti Pank, and the subject was discussed in depth, after which recommendations were made as to why the second pension pillar should not be demolished. But the finance minister, Martin Helme, said that you could come here together, but it's been decided. That is why MEPs are also very critical today. One thing that justifies the need for the reform to be taken apart by the public is that today's pharmacy chain owners are not ready to sell their share or are willing to sell at a very expensive price that is not suitable for pharmacists. When we are talking about a regulated market that the country has actually introduced today, it is not, by its very nature, a free market. Would you explain to the public what they have to sell at all? If the stock comes from the wholesale trade, most of the stock can be returned to the wholesale trade and returned to sale again. When we are talking about rent and property, obviously one of the sales articles is furniture used in pharmacy rooms, and the third is the turnover actually provided by the state in so-called market regulation. Can you explain how the price can be so high that it is unacceptable to good pharmacists? What does it consist of? What does an undertaking actually have to sell within the framework of this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U70	Thanks for asking. In fact, you have already listed a great deal on your question. As I said earlier on the same subject, finding a fair price has proved to be an obstacle precisely because pharmacists, the Agency and we have tried to assess how much it would cost to set up a new pharmacy. An amount of EUR 100000 has been received. And if, at the same time, a market participant asks twice or three times more for his own pharmacy, it is understandable that there will be no agreement. Well, there is a lot of turnover-based logic in the game. Stocks alone or furniture, of course, do not bring such a price together. This may be based on a turnover-based logic based on this key that, if the pharmacy is in some very good location, it can undoubtedly be taken over much better than, for example, making another pharmacy somewhere a kilometer away, not knowing whether it is possible to remain competitive, not knowing whether there will be a clientele, etc. Maybe that's the point. As regards the change of ownership, as I said, until April 2020, the parties will have the time to do so in accordance with the law in force. If any changes occur, of course the public will be informed of this. These debates are held in this Chamber. Price policy is something that no law directly regulates. There is no place in the law that says that the fair price of a pharmacy is that, the second or third. It is a matter of negotiation between the parties. At present, pharmacists prefer to set up new pharmacies rather than buy existing ones. While we have proposed a solution to create, for example, a virtual environment where pharmacies are up and to see for everyone at the price of who wants to sell somewhere, the participants have not approved it. And despite the guidelines for the establishment of a new pharmacy in cooperation with pharmacists and the Agency, the majority of pharmacies have not yet reached any agreement between market participants.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U71	Thank you. Three questions have been answered. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U72	We have come to question 8 by Mark Networker. Reply by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U73	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The IMF recommended that the Estonian government keep the second pillar of pension mandatory, and Eesti Pank takes the same view. The Minister of Finance, Martin Helme, then announced that the government would be happy to listen to the advice, but that it would not be possible for the government to give up the voluntaryisation of the second pillar of pension, as the electoral mandate has been obtained. In the electoral platforms, only Isamaa, who received only 11.4% of the voters' votes in the elections, allowed the second pillar to be made optional. In the electoral platforms of the Centre Party and the EKRE, which received 23.1% and 17.8% of voters' votes respectively, there is nowhere to be found a promise to make the second pillar optional. The Centre Party considered it important to reduce the administrative fees for the statutory second pillar and to increase productivity on its platform. My question is: how do you feel as a Minister for Social Affairs, who should stand for the sustainability of our pensions, the IMF and Eesti Pank's recommendations to abandon the second pillar of voluntaryisation, because this will reduce our pensions in the future? Do you continue to support the voluntaryisation of the second pillar? And another question: how do you comment on Mr Helme's words that the mandate of the people to liquidate the second pillar was obtained if, in fact, it does not even exist on the platform of two major coalition parties? And the usual question is, is the Minister of Finance lying?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U74	Thank you for your question. As regards the electoral platforms of the political parties, you have raised this topic, I have dealt more with the Centre Party, which I had the honour of helping to put together. I am less familiar with the discussions of other parties. I know that the representatives of the EKRE have said that they, too, actually came up with this position before the elections, perhaps they can best clarify it themselves. In this sense, the proportion of the mandate received from the people may be somewhat higher than you mentioned. As far as IMF and Eesti Pank's recommendations are concerned, they must be taken seriously. The role of Eesti Pank is to advise major economic policy decisions, assess the work of the government and perhaps also highlight the danger areas. Together, we can discuss how we can mitigate these threats. The IMF is also undoubtedly an organisation whose assessments and analyses must be taken seriously. It is still an internationally recognised organisation. As far as the decisions of the government and Parliament are concerned, of course, each country will finally make them itself. Let's look at what was agreed in the coalition, let's look at the first, second and third pillars of the pension system at once, and I have said before myself that if we see that the share of the second pillar will fall in the future, then that is to say that we must be prepared for it and take into account that the first pillar must be invested more both in the form of contributions and in the form of payments. This also means the principle agreed in the coalition that when people leave the second pillar, their social tax does not go to cover any current expenditure, but goes precisely to the first pillar, i.e. to implement an extraordinary pension increase. This, of course, will also mean additional obligations for the country in the future. In order to ensure the sustainability of the pension system and specifically to promote collection, the draft provides for a number of specific points. For example, a tax point: if, for whatever reason, a person takes out money accumulated in another pension pillar during his or her working life, he or she will pay 20% income tax if he or she does so at retirement age, under certain conditions, in the case of a life-long payment, it will be 0% and 10% in the case of a lump sum payment. This, too, is a clear measure that supports collection. I've said before that personally, I intend to continue collecting into the second pension pillar. I generally support the principle that savings not only in the first pillar of the pension, but also in everyone's own contribution. The first pension pillar and, in fact, the first and second pillars together do not provide us with a sufficiently large pension. If we look at the comparison with other European Union and OECD countries, we are at the end at 40% of the average net wage, which is certainly not a satisfactory level. I think it should be at least 50% and more. This can be done through extraordinary increases in pensions, which can be done through the collection of the second and third pillars, and can also be done by extending the payment of occupational pensions, which we have also dealt with in the coalition agreement. This should probably be particularly the case for the third pillar, which, unfortunately, today very many employers do not make contributions to, and not many people themselves. Such measures must certainly be looked at as a whole and, of course, the Committee on Social Affairs will also put forward its proposals to complete the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U75	Thank you. Mart Networker, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U76	Thank you for your answer. In your reply, you said that if the second pillar disappears and the future pension is smaller, then perhaps the first pillar pension should be increased exceptionally. My point is this: in the light of Mr Helme's words that a mandate from the people in elections makes a clear commitment to the government to fulfil its promises, why does the Centre Party not fulfil its promise in the elections to increase its pension by EUR 100 in 2020 exceptionally? Although, as I said before, the Centre Party received a much stronger mandate in the elections than the Fatherland and the EKRE.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U77	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the Centre Party and the Government as a whole have started to raise an extraordinary pension. In 2020, we will take the first step: with indexation, the average pension will rise by EUR 45, which is more than 12 years before that. However, this is an important step in the right direction. Is this the whole step? Rather, it is half a step; the other half must be taken in the coming years, depending on the country's financial resources. In my opinion, there is nothing strange about the fact that many promises are made when we go to elections, based on the financial situation known. That's normal practice. All political parties made their own electoral platforms, knowing the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance at the time. I may be mistaken in my head, but as far as I know, the so-called cost of the electoral platform of the Reform Party and the Central Party was virtually identical: 1.5 billion and 1.4 billion. However, regardless of who started to form the government, it was known that, due to new financial forecasts, new financial figures could not fully fulfil the promises of any party's electoral platform. That is what Andrus Ansip, a member of your own party, has said. He has stated that the EUR 500 promised tax-free income for everyone would not have been feasible for this budget. And if you look at history, I have already given this example once in this very Parliament that in 2007 the Reform Party promised to double its pension in four years before the elections. In fact, it was achieved in ten years. And it's inevitable. I promise that we will be able to achieve an extraordinary retirement of EUR 100 at a much faster rate than in ten years. We can do this during this government's working hours. The first steps have already been taken in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U78	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! It is an interesting story to fulfil this mandate. You are also partially defending this mandate of the Fatherland here, but if I remember correctly, it was a very big promise from the Fatherland, but there were fewer seats in the Riigikogu after this election promise came out than last time. I don't know where that mandate came from. My question today is that I think that one thing has been given little attention. This has been argued by experts, and experience in other countries shows that a higher pension is when the first and second pillars work together, no matter how it is organised. As your Minister of Social Affairs, you should be particularly concerned about what is happening. If a voluntary principle is introduced, the overall social situation will deteriorate and income will decrease. You are referring to the fact that we must then increase the first pillar. But let's look at your extraordinary pension increase, which is 7 euros gross and, if taxes are deducted, 1.50 under certain conditions. So there is no hope of covering the difference that arises from the dismantling of the second pillar. I think it's irresponsible. If we are talking about the survival of the country and the long vision of politicians responsible, why do you still agree with this? You'd actually have to stand up to that demolition with ten nails. Please tell me why you agree!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U80	Thank you for your question. I'll answer in line. You referred to an extraordinary increase in pensions, which, together with indexation, will amount to EUR 45. It is true that EUR 7 of this is an 'additional' part. There could be more, but let's look at history again, look at the real decisions that governments have made. The last extraordinary pension increase before that was on 1 July 2007 when EUR 16 was added to the base. This was decided at a time when the Ministry of Social Affairs was appointed by the current Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab. I am saying this to point out that small steps can also increase pensions. This year we did as much as the budget allowed. If the same principle had been applied, for example, for the previous 12 years, the pension would now be about EUR 100 higher. Unfortunately, it wasn't done. As far as future pension increases are concerned, as I have pointed out, in the event that people decide to leave the second pillar system, we have agreed in the coalition and government office that this 4% of the social tax that so far went into the second pillar for the people who joined the second pillar will go into the first pillar in the future, in order to enable all people to achieve an extraordinary pension increase. As Minister of Social Affairs, I am certainly not only concerned about future pensioners, but also very much about today's pensioners. We have 330000 pensioners, of whom 305000 are old-age pensioners. The average pension is significantly below the limit of relative poverty and, compared to neighbouring countries, our pensioners' incomes are low. This shows that the current decisions on pension policy have been such that the allocation of funds in this area has not been sufficient. We see that regardless of whether we have two or three pillars, regardless of whether a person has joined them or not, the amount that the state has contributed to social affairs and health care has been too small. You are probably well aware, as the previous minister in the field, that this amount has been lower than the European Union average and not only as an absolute value but also as a percentage of GDP. This is an area where more money needs to be given, an area that needs to be prioritised. I am very pleased that the current government has done so. In a situation where we had to find a great deal of cuts and delays in investment, the budget for the Ministry of Social Affairs' area of responsibility increased by more than half a billion euros due to indexations and government decisions. No euros in the social sector, no pension payments, no withdrawal from health care. On the contrary, the money was provided by decisions of both this and the previous government. I think that's the direction to keep. This must be maintained regardless of how many people choose to leave the second pillar and whether they put that money on an investment account or make other decisions to use it. Personally, I highly recommend saving, rather making reasonable investment choices, rather than thinking about it only when it is too late, perhaps the retirement age. But regardless of whether the current system will remain one hundred percent the same as it is now, or whether the changes agreed in the coalition will come, it can be said that, in fact, the pension system in Estonia has been underfunded for a very long time. And finding extra money in it is essential.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U81	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U82	Let's go to the next question. Asks Katri Raik, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U83	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Prime Minister! Several times today, there has been talk of lying and vulgarizing members of your government. I have to bring another minister's name to this line. Minister Riina Solman said in yesterday's Postimees: "Family violence and family strife are often confused, but any such confrontation that can grow physically is not family violence. " True, later in his facial book, he tried to balance what he had to say. This is a sensitive issue; the Minister's word has a special weight. So, what was the case with the minister telling the truth? What is his real opinion? Have you talked to Minister Solman about this? And maybe you'll be so nice and say your clear position on domestic violence, then the members of your government will have something to base their statements on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U84	Thank you. Of course I'll say it. I have already said this many times that domestic violence, both verbal and physical, has no place in our society. Unfortunately, it must be said that this is perhaps the most common form of violence that does not come to light or which, for some reason, is not likely to be brought to light by people who do not have the courage, they are afraid. But it should be! I think it should be brought to light. So in any case, I condemn all domestic violence. Now, you're talking about Minister Riina Solman. If I'm not mistaken, I don't know exactly what day he's going on. But he said, either a few hours later or, let's say, some time later very clearly, that if anyone had the impression that he was somehow supporting domestic violence or that there might be certain domestic violence, he would not do so under any circumstances. I'm not going to bring you a specific quote now, so perhaps you'd say I'm lying, but I think the point of his words was that his sentence has got the wrong impression and he's apologizing for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U85	Thank you. Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U86	Good Prime Minister! I don't think you're lying. And that's why, with your kind permission, I'm going to go to another subject, which concerns my constituency of Ida-Virumaa. The European Commission has set up a coal platform to support regions using "cooling fuel." As we know, it is oil shale in Ida-Viru County. Estonia is able to join the coal platform. I understand from the officials that this should be dealt with in particular by regional officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance. Do you personally support Estonia's accession to the coal platform and is this topic on your desk?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U87	Thank you. Yes, there has been talk about this platform before, and when this idea came up some time ago, they asked why Estonia had not immediately applied. I think it was then that Brussels was just asking our representatives if there was any interest in participating in it. If you ask me if I think it is right that in the next European budgetary framework, the MFF, there is a special fund for those countries that want to meet their climate policy objectives and reduce fossil fuel inputs, such as our oil shale, if you ask me if I am ready to talk and act on this subject, then I will say that last time I did it about 24 hours ago when we were in Prague, the Czech Republic. There was a club of friends of cohesion policy, a very nice meeting with 17 Member States of the European Union. One way to speak is to say this is really one way, at the moment only the theory of a fair transition fund. How exactly it is financed and financed, which criteria are, it has not yet been set. But surely, if Poland, for example, is talking about coal, then Estonia has always said that this measure must also be extended to oil shale. Yesterday, I had this conversation with my colleagues. So, of course, in this sense, Estonia must keep the focus sharp, and I fully agree with that. And it would be a financial opportunity to make the energy sector more environmentally friendly in the interests of the people of Ida-Virumaa, households. In Estonia, this means, to a very large extent, wind energy and its contribution. So this is the focus of Estonia anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U88	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Sadly, there are a lot of questions about lying today. When you answered my previous question, you tried to be very precise and correct and referred to Mart Järvik's performance on the First Studio. At least that's what I got. You said you couldn't figure out whether it was a lie or not, whether it was a vassal there or not, I didn't want to put words in your mouth. But I would like to ask you to read this quote again and put it in the context that last week the public was informed that Minister Mart Järvik was attending a meeting at this very M.V.Wool factory on 12 June, which even has a record that there was talk about listeria and what was happening in the factory for nearly an hour. And then answer the question again, whether you think it's a lie or not. Strawberries give us all vitamins, they're really nice, like you said, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U90	I answered that question several times. First of all, the first fundamental point is that when we talk about the safety of food products both in industry and in our retail network, the main thing is to ensure that food sold is safe for everyone. That's all that matters. You want me to repeat this quote. I made it clear that this is about what you said in the first studio, maybe you forgot, but it's in the verbatim, and I can read it again, of course, and that I can't judge whether it's a lie from the information I know right now. I also said that he must certainly explain to the Estonian public and to the members of the Riigikogu in future, so that the matter is clear and specific. Now, if you want to read this quote again, I apologise to the other members of the Riigikogu, I do not know whether this is now a waste of Question Time or not, I am sure you have many more interesting questions, but I can read it again, and that doesn't hurt. So this is ERR's First Studio, this time the title was 'If there is evidence, the office should close the M.V.Wool plant'. This was an October 8 show, where the minister said this: 'I have not seen the answers to such a test, where there are five times, or 500 units, as you are now saying. ' And then, 'I got a call after work, I think it was around 6 a.m., the Vice Chancellor, who claimed that there were probably new tracks in the rehearsals. That's all I know. I'm glad I was informed of this, because when the case started in March came up until August, I heard about it for the first time in the ministry. I don't know if I or I didn't have the information, and somehow that information wasn't passed on. ' Then I read the quote again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U91	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U92	Let us move on to the next question. Asks Jürgen Ligi, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U93	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! The brightest innovation in your reign is that the party always knows everything best and can throw it on everyone's nose. It's been heard by researchers, experts, judges, universities, scientists, all of them. And it's systemic, practically every day your coalition buddies make this statement. The most gruesome damage to society in material terms is evident in the pension system. The reform of the second pillar, as you call it, has received a completely unanimous, destructive assessment from experts. It's getting more and more. Yesterday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs again: ten people present, and everyone appears with completely destructive assessments and justifications. But Martin Helme will always say that we have a mandate, we can do anything. That's what he always says! But you said exactly what the experts said before the elections, that we have small pensions, that the people are ageing, and that is why the second pillar must remain as it is. That's a very reasonable idea! How's that party will of yours? If a party who has made a perfectly reasonable point at some stage, yes, but a perfectly reasonable point of view, suddenly changes its position to the contrary and starts to argue with experts, how is such a thing possible? Please describe your style of government!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U94	Thank you, Mr. Ligi. You asked about party leadership. Well, there are coalition governments in Estonia, and we can't fight that. And I hope that this will continue to happen, that there will be coalition governments in the country, not the governments of one party. You asked critically about the amount of advice you listen to. It has been very different in times of different governments, hasn't it? I remember governments and even the heads of government who have said that the audits, assessments and analyses of the National Audit Office are not suitable for anywhere, we do not take them into account. Well, I think we should consider it. They must be heard and they must also be asked to cooperate with them. Well, there's been a different way of leading a party. There are certain positions in which it is desirable to see members of their party who will then become former politicians. Some have been successful and have done their job well. In this sense, I do not criticise this practice at all. I will bring, for example, certain presidents of the Supreme Court. But it's gone the other way. I know that it is desirable to present people with political background as Governor of Eesti Pank, but this has not always happened. So there have been different examples. You're asking how the party leadership of this coalition has evolved. This is agreed in a coalition agreement between three political parties and there is also a coalition council. You say that assessments of the second pillar are, as a matter of fact, not to be listened to or taken into account. After all, these estimates have actually been made by the same funds. I do not know how profitable they have been in the last 17 to 18 years, how much their administrative costs have been. I guess that's how people make their choice. We're not losing any pillars. We're making the second pillar optional. We have had a discussion on this topic between the members of the current government and Eesti Pank. Eesti Pank has submitted its assessment, talked about its concerns. So it cannot be said that the subject has not been discussed. The Cabinet has discussed this several times, and so have ministers and ministries.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U95	Jürgen Ligi's specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U96	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! I always wonder who your teacher was when I listened to you. How did you end up in middle school like this? You're not following what you're asking, you're talking completely out of line. How did you get the graduation? This is absolutely unbelievable. I didn't say that party membership should rule something out. I spoke of party leadership by saying that the party will tell independent institutions how to judge how to analyse something, how to find the bacteria. That's what my question was about. You guys are gonna mess with some kind of past in a completely different dimension. Please answer the question. Your own party and you yourself defended the second pillar before the election, but now, because of the party's obsession, you exchanged it for this other position. You're taking money out of the pension system, reducing pensions for the future. And precisely because of the dictatorship of one party. No one will oblige you to be the leader of the coalition government. Nobody! You will be obliged to serve the Estonian people, which you will not do with such power games. You're hurting! And that's what experts say. How do you still exchange your views in such a way as to make the opinion of experts completely different? That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U97	Thank you, good questioner! I will look at the title of your question: 'Participant leadership'. Yeah, there'd be fewer people talking about a garden and others talking about a garden hole in this hall! This applies to both parties. Now, what you said in a very patronizing tone about my education. I received basic education at Tallinn Rahvamäe Elementary School, which is the former 27th School. I say there were good teachers and there are good teachers now. But I think I'm gonna start discussing the kind of questions who wrote the essay, so I won't go down to that level. Now that someone's pushing something. In a democratic country, no one is imposing anything. Three political parties have found a joint section in the spring, have found an opportunity to make a coalition agreement and put in it the principles they believe could take action in different areas over the next four years. Your criticisms, however, mainly relate to the amendment of the regulation of the second pillar. I can't say it's been done somehow in the office. No, it's not! Different ministries have been involved, Eesti Pank has said its views, various parties from the private sector have also been involved. I remember that, when the coalition agreement was concluded, round tables were held with specialists and there were those who said that it was not good for anything, it was not a good idea, but there were also those who said that this was the right idea, that this second pillar must be changed. I think that if it finally ends in such a way that we can motivate the second pillar providers more to offer people better, more profitable conditions, then it is very good. You said that we somehow cut through the possibility for future pensioners to raise a pension. I'm sorry, but we also have to stand up for the current pensioners. We must finally get out of this bad situation, where a very large proportion of the elderly live below the limit of relative poverty. And for future pensioners, steps have also been taken. However, the same extraordinary pension increase helps both current and future pensioners. In this sense, I agree with the Minister for Social Affairs that this is certainly not a long step forward. I don't know if it's half a step, as he says, but it's definitely a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U98	Thank you. Next, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! One part of the pension system you imagine is that you declare an emergency pension increase of 7 euros with a loud voice, but eventually, when a person gets the money, it's 1.50 or 1.40. And you must be the first prime minister or head of the first government to tax the average pension. So in that sense, it's a double-edged sword, and it doesn't have to be embellished, as you say. But let's talk about party leadership. After all, the questions that I or the public have put about food safety are linked to the fact that certain systems must be clearly independent and also seem independent. It is therefore very bad to listen when your coalition associates, including other ministers, say that VTA leaders must be released. Peter Ernits said they should be released immediately. Mart Helme has said from here on the remote that it is necessary to intervene forcefully. Listening to your answers to my previous question about lying to Mart Järvik, I noticed that despite you throwing a little of that social joke about strawberries, you read one answer off the paper. And it had nothing to do with you reading Järvik's quotes. This actually indicates that you have become very cautious on this issue. Now I'm gonna ask you again. You promised the public that you would find out if Mart Järvik had lied. Will you give it up, or can I hope that the Prime Minister will say at a press conference that he has correspondence and can he say for sure whether Mart Järvik is lying or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U100	Thank you. Sometimes in life, you're on your back like this. You have been a very active questioner in this Question Time, and that is very commendable. You've always said everyone's lying. Everyone's lying! One of your statements was that I am the first prime minister to tax the average pension. I am telling you that the average pension has always been taxed, paid approximately 50% or a little less or a little more. It's always been that way, there hasn't been any other rule. There hasn't been any other rule! So when it comes to lying, I don't know what to do now. But, well, I understand what your rhetoric was, which we're going to blame each other for. With regard to the Minister for Rural Affairs, Mr Järvik, I will say to you once again that he must, of course, in any case, give further answers. This situation is not clear, but clarity is needed. However, if you criticize me for trying to prepare some answers seriously and reading them down here in Question Time, I'm sorry, but that's true. You always have very good and specific questions, and I am seriously preparing the answers. And sometimes you really need to look at the notes. Don't be mad at me!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U101	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue. It's so late we're forced to finish Question Time. I would like to thank all the ministers who took part. I thank all the questioners! In particular, I will set the example of Mr Urmas Kruuse, who has been the fastest able to press the button and ask the most questions of all members of the Riigikogu. Thank you. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U102	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 7th working week session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, § 37 of the Estonian Constitution says that everyone has the right to receive instruction in Estonian. Unfortunately, this most Estonian-language teaching, or study at an Estonian-language school, does not receive enough support from the state, and it is not exactly those whose home language is not Estonian. The state supports the teaching of Estonian in Russian schools and kindergartens, it supports the immersion, it supports new immigrants, including those Estonian children who have studied abroad for a few years, but it does not support those young people and children who go to the Estonian-language school and whose home language is not Estonian. That's a big problem. The number and proportion of these children have increased very rapidly, and many schools are struggling with it, especially in Ida-Virumaa, but there are problems in Valga, for example, and as I heard, in Saare, where young people come from other parts of Estonia to vocational training institutions, but they do not speak enough Estonian. On behalf of 19 members of the Reform Party, I will address an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, with questions that specifically concern this subject. What is the plan to do to solve this problem? Is a systematic support programme underway and what kind of financial support does the Minister see? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U104	There are no further requests for referrals and drafts. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu deals with this on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U105	Today's agenda contains 16 items. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Energy Economy. Do the political groups want to negotiate? No requests, let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Energy Economy Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 48. Please take a stand and vote. 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U106	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the second reading of Bill 63 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon'. I'd like to ask Madis Milling, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U107	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 21 October. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft text and explanatory memorandum at second reading. On 5 November this year, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs took place at the Defence Forces General Headquarters, where representatives of the Defence Forces also gave an overview of what was happening in the mission areas. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments. As the lead committee, the National Defence Commission did not provide any linguistic clarifications on the draft. In view of the fact that participation in UNIFIL contributes to strengthening security and stability in the Middle East as well as in the rest of the world, and that participation in UN missions is also due to Estonia's UN membership, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus at its meeting, including on 21 October, that the draft would be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including by 6 November. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the Riigikogu would be invited to stop the second reading of the draft, to put the draft to the final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U108	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. As no amendments to the draft have been tabled, we can go straight to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon 63. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U109	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia'. The rapporteur is Alar Laneman, member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu on 10 September, with the first reading on 25 September. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline for tabling amendments, including at 5.15 p.m. on 9 October, from outside the commission. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 21 October. At this meeting, the Committee on National Defence unanimously approved the amendment, the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. On 5 November this year, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs took place at the Defence Forces General Headquarters, where the Commander of the Defence Forces gave an overview of what was happening in the mission areas. On the advice of the language editor, the National Defence Committee made a single linguistic specification in point 1 adding the word 'Defence Forces' after'set'. This clarification harmonises the wording of the draft text with the wording of other draft missions involving the Defence Forces. Amendment. On 26 September 2019, the day after the first reading of the draft under discussion in the Riigikogu, the Council of the European Union decided to extend the mandate of EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia until 31 March 2020. On the basis of the above procedure of the same draft mission in the Riigikogu last year and the recommendation of the Secretary-General of the National Defence Commission, the National Defence Committee has unanimously tabled one amendment to the draft. According to the amendment, the Estonian Defence Forces can continue to participate in the EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia mission only if there is a mandate from the Council of the European Union. The officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author of the draft act supported the linguistic clarification of the draft act and the amendment. In the text of the second reading of the draft text, the linguistic specification and the amendment are distinguished as underlined. Coming to the main objective of the draft, I note that by taking part in this mission in solidarity with other countries of the European Union, we are contributing to the prevention of illegal immigration into Europe. Following the above, the National Defence Committee, including at its meeting on 21 October, made the following procedural decisions and proposals by consensus. First, it was decided to put the draft on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu for a second reading; second, the Riigikogu is invited to stop the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U111	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. There is also one amendment to the draft; it has been tabled by the Committee on National Defence and the position of the commission is to take full account of the proposal. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote on 64. We are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia' draft 64. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U112	Today's fourth item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq." The rapporteur is Anneli Ott, member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 10 September. The first reading was also held on 25 September. The deadline for tabling amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 9 October and no amendments to the draft were tabled. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 21 October, before submitting it to second reading, and unanimously approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. On 5 November this year, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs took place at the Defence Forces General Headquarters, where representatives of the Defence Forces gave an overview of what was happening in the mission areas. On the basis of the draft, it will be decided to continue the participation of up to five members of the Defence Forces in the NATO mission to NMI Iraq. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 21 October this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the draft would be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including by 6 November. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the Riigikogu would be invited to conclude the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U114	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq', as presented by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U115	Today's fifth item is the second reading of Inherent Resolve Bill 66 of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State. I would like to ask Ants Laaneots, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U116	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 10 September. The first reading was also held on 25 September. No amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline of 9 October at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 21 October, before submitting it to second reading, and unanimously approved the text of the draft second reading and the explanatory memorandum. On 5 November of this year, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs took place yesterday at the Defence Forces General Headquarters, where a representative of the Defence Forces, or the Commander of the Defence Forces, gave an overview of missions in different regions and what is happening there. On the basis of this draft, it will be decided to continue the participation of up to 20 Estonian Defence Forces in the international operation of Inherent Resolve, which in Estonian is 'invincible will', led by the United States of America against ISIL. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 21 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the draft would be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including by 6 November. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the Riigikogu would be invited to terminate the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U117	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international military operation of the Estonian State's international obligations Inherent Resolve' draft 66. Please take a stand and vote. 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U118	The sixth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft 67th reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' presented by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Johannes Kerdi, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. On this bill, I have the following to say. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 21 October. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft text and explanatory memorandum at second reading. On 5 November of this year, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs took place at the Defence Forces' headquarters, where an overview of what was happening in the missions' areas was given. No amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 9 October. The National Defence Committee, as the lead commission, did not provide any linguistic clarifications on the draft. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace in crisis regions. Estonia is actively participating in UN missions, which are in line with our foreign and security policy decision to increase visibility in the UN. Participation in external missions is one of the most important instruments of foreign and defence policy. As a result of the above, the National Defence Committee decided in consensus at its meeting, including on 21 October, that the Riigikogu would be invited to stop the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U120	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There are no requests and we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the Estonian state's international obligations in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria', draft 67. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U121	The seventh item on the agenda is the second reading of the Bill 68 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations'. I ask Leo Kunnas, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 10 September and the first reading took place on 25 September. No amendments to the draft were tabled by 5.15 p.m. on 9 October. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 21 October. On the advice of the language editor, the National Defence Committee made some linguistic clarifications in paragraph 1 of the draft: the word'set aside' was deleted, resulting in a change in the order of the words and the end of the word 'Chapter'. These clarifications harmonize the wording of the draft text with the wording of other draft operations involving the Defence Forces. The officials of the Ministry of Defence representing the author of the draft act supported the linguistic specifications of the National Defence Commission. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee unanimously approved the draft text and explanatory memorandum at second reading. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. At its meeting on 21 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the draft would be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including by 6 November. At the same meeting, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the Riigikogu would be invited to stop the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U123	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U124	Thank you. Mr. Kunnas! I was quietly hoping that, as a writer, you might be editing this terrible formalism and the pulpit, which now sounds about the tenth time on the remote. In fact, I would like to know more about content and less about these formal repeating and repeating words. But my question is not exactly about this bill, it is general. You could have tried to talk a little bit about these substances. I happened on Monday to hear your benchmate on the remote, giving a speech to an empty hall about an external mission being a big colonial act and something else. I didn't listen, but I was shocked. Have you or have you had the same discussions in the committee that Estonia is going on foreign missions as a colonialist?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U125	In this speech, our group member, Reuben Kaalep, expressed his personal position on this operation in Mali. Since you asked, of course I will answer and talk about the parties to it. There we support the French, or French, that is, the French State that is in charge of this operation. The French are here with a company-sized unit. They've been betting on Ämaris several times. It is clear that we support the French unconditionally. But the other party to this operation is Mali's armed forces. There are three problems with them. First of all, they're not pure boys for war crimes. There are war criminals in every army, it's inevitable, but war crimes can't be, I'd say, ordinary practice. There are two more problems. This conflict has its own ethnic dimension and, unfortunately, it also has its own racial dimension, because the southern tribes are black and the Tuaregs are white in a certain context. These moral and moral aspects cannot be ignored in this operation, which is why we have also been left free to vote on this particular operation in Mali. But this particular operation, which I am dealing with, is different in this respect This operation, which is dealt with by this mandate, is not yet taking place and is not planned. This mandate is simply in case the Government of the Republic suddenly needs to send defence forces to a military operation initiated by the United Nations, NATO, the European Union or one of our allied states and where we consider it necessary to contribute with our participation. Until now, we have not used any such mandate, or the Government of the Republic has still not used it. Nor do we expect the government to use it on an easy hand now, but the possibility of getting 50 members of the Defence Forces out of this touches about a group-size unit, that is given to the Government of the Republic each time, and it would be wise to give it this time too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U126	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to it by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations' Bill 68. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U127	Today's eighth item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the framework of the response forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation." I would like to ask Kalle Laanet, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U128	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of our colleague Jürgen Ligi's proposal, I will try to make it very quickly and compactly. This draft decision was discussed on exactly the same dates as the previous draft decision. No amendments were tabled. I would add that yesterday, on 5 November, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs took place at the Defence Forces Headquarters, where the Commander of the Defence Forces gave a thorough overview of all missions. Yes, it had previously been submitted to the National Defence Committee, but the Committee on Foreign Affairs received an additional review. Estonia's participation in the NRF (NATO Response Force) stems from our NATO membership. NATO response teams may be used, in particular, in a collective self-defence operation under the NATO Treaty. Therefore, participation in the NRF is directly related to Estonia's security. Consequently, the National Defence Committee consensually invites the Riigikogu to stop the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U129	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments have been tabled. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the reaction forces of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' 69. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U130	The ninth item on the agenda is the second reading of the 70th draft of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces by the Government of the Republic in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali. I'd like to ask Jaak Juske, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft on the same dates as the previous similar drafts and made two minor linguistic clarifications in the draft on 21 October, which changed the order of words and the end of one word for reasons of clarity. As has been said, yesterday the committees met with the Commander of the Defence Forces, who repeatedly stressed the importance of participating in foreign missions, because this helps to secure our allies, especially in a difficult region such as Mali. This really helps to strengthen our allied relations with the important NATO partner France, because the French unit has also been in Estonia and is coming to Estonia again in the new year. The Commission also unanimously supported this draft. Let it be said that the total number of 27 countries participating in this European Union Training Mission is 27. Following the approval of the draft, the Commission decided to refer the draft to a second reading at today's sitting and it is proposed that the draft be put to the final vote. I ask you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U132	Thank you. You have questions too. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U133	Thank you. Good waitress! I would like to ask you if you are familiar with the war crimes committed by the Malian regime and the ethnic cleansing in northern Mali. If you are aware, how can you accept support for such a regime, and if you are not aware, why have you come to this hall without preparing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U134	Thank you for your question. The Commission did not discuss these issues, but as emphasised yesterday by the Commander of the Defence Forces, the Estonian Defence Forces involved in the Mali operation, are in contact with the government forces and are involved in the fight against terrorism. As your good coalition partner, Mr Lotman, proved to you at yesterday's meeting at the Defence Forces headquarters, the world is not black and white, but the situation in Mali is much more complicated and more written. Once again: Estonia's good ally relations with France are crucial.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U135	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U136	Good manager! Good waitress! My colleague Leo Kunnas spoke a little about Mali's background, but I ask you if you, as a social democrat, support the fight against black people with white Tuaregs in this conflict. What is your attitude towards this serious ethnic conflict if you want approval now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U137	Thank you. I would point out that a specific draft has been submitted by the Government of the Republic, which includes your party. I am reporting the Commission's position here, I cannot comment on my personal views, but I have repeated the words that the Commander of the Defence Forces told us yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U138	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U139	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a technical question. In the explanatory memorandum to the first reading of this draft, I read that a total of 20 armed forces are being sent, 10 are going on a European Union training mission in Mali and up to 10 UN peacekeeping missions in Mali. But in the draft second reading, I read that up to 10 armed forces are going on a European Union training mission and a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Mali. Which one is it, 10 or 20?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U140	Thank you! Once again, there are, isn't there, 'until', if necessary, the Defence Forces can send our soldiers there. As far as I know, it's right that up to 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U141	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U142	Thank you. Did I understand correctly from your answer that the war crimes of the Malian regime and the suppression of indigenous peoples are not important issues in this matter, because the world is not black and white?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U143	Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out that the draft was submitted by the government, which also includes the EKRE. I think you should ask your own members of the government the questions why they have come here today with this bill. In the Committee on National Defence, the decision was unanimous, the draft is supported, and the members of your party very warmly supported it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U144	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali', draft 70. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U145	Today's 10th item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Forces'. As rapporteur, I would like to ask Andres Metsoja, Chairman of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U146	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this draft decision, too, is one of the draft missions package and the procedural dates are exactly the same, so I will not read them to you again. The National Defence Committee made one technical specification in the draft and this clarification made the text of the draft compatible with § 34 of the National Defence Act. Officials of the Ministry of Defence represented the author of the draft and supported the above-mentioned clarification made by the National Defence Commission. The draft decision focuses on Estonia's contribution. This contribution is made by up to 24 armed forces, i.e. a four-member team of improvised explosive devices, a three-member strategic communication team, a five-member medical team, an air fireman, a four-member mine diver team and a seven-member support element. It is important to mention that the planned expenditure is approximately EUR 100000, which will be covered by the budget of the Ministry of Defence's administration in 2020. The National Defence Committee took procedural decisions at its meeting on 21 October. There was a consensus that the draft would be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading today, and it was also decided by consensus that the Riigikogu would be invited to stop the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U147	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom expedition' 71. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U148	The 11th item is the second reading of the Bill 72 of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan. I would like Martin Repinski, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 10 September. The first reading was also held on 25 September. No amendments to the draft were tabled by the deadline of 9 October, including 5.15 p.m. On the advice of the editorial editor, the National Defence Committee made some linguistic clarifications in point 1 of the draft, replacing the abbreviation 'NATO' with 'North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. On the advice of the language editor, the words 'advice and training mission' were replaced by 'training and consultation mission' in order to ensure that the text of the draft decision is consistent with the title of the draft decision. In addition, word learning was improved and the Commission deleted the word 'in composition'. The representative of the draft act supported the clarifications. On 5 November this year, a joint meeting of the Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs took place at the Defence Forces General Headquarters, where representatives of the Defence Forces gave an overview of what was happening in the mission areas. The active troops of the Defence Forces would continue to contribute to the NATO training and advisory mission on the basis of the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion, the important objective of which is to teach the Afghan national security forces. To this end, the draft mandates up to 46 active troops so that Afghanistan does not become a pillar of international terrorism again. The support of the Allied forces on the ground to the Afghan security forces is important. Estonia shall carry out its allied responsibilities with regard to its participation in the mission. At its meeting on 21 October, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the draft would be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including by 6 November, i.e. today. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the Riigikogu would be invited to terminate the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U150	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the decision proposed by the Government of the Republic to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan, draft 72. Please take a stand and vote. 63 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U151	The 12th item is the second reading of the Bill 73 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali' submitted by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Andres Metsoja, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U152	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday at the General Staff meeting with the Commander of the Defence Forces, the Commander of the Defence Forces also said that this is clearly the most dangerous draft in the sense that our fighters are at the highest risk. This draft has also been tabled by the Government of the Republic on 10 September and no amendments were tabled on the draft by the deadline for tabling amendments. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading. On the advice of the language editor, the National Defence Committee made a single linguistic specification in point 1. The name of the country was specified: the words 'in the Republic of Mali' were replaced by 'in the Republic of Mali'. This clarification harmonises the wording of the draft text, point 1 being brought into line with the title and point 2 and also brings the draft into line with the name of the Malian state as set out in the draft decision of the Riigikogu 70. The drafters agreed with this linguistic specification. On the same day, the Committee on National Defence also unanimously approved the draft text and the explanatory memorandum at second reading. Once again, yesterday we went to the main headquarters together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The final objective of the operation, as set out in the draft, is to stabilise the situation in the region with military operations up to a level which enables the authorities of the countries of the region to independently guarantee security. At the same time, contributing to strategic and political-military relations between Estonia and France will strengthen Estonia's position on key security issues in NATO and the European Union. It is also reasonable to emphasise this important aspect that diplomatic relations between countries are not always very clearly measurable in the case of such military missions, security missions, but obviously our contribution is highly valued in the context of the messages from the high military leaders. That is precisely what we are doing, the act of our Parliament. When we are talking about mass immigration and its elimination at its origin, it is precisely this bill that is one of the many proposals with which we can actually intervene in order to try to ensure peace in the region or at least to establish a path towards these aspirations. The French unit has been known to participate in the NATO battle group in Estonia since 2017, which is part of the 1st Infantry Brigade of the Defence Forces. As a result, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the draft would be submitted to second reading, and the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the Riigikogu would be invited to terminate the second reading of the draft and put to the final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U153	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U154	Good waitress! Are you more familiar with the circumstances of the conflict in Mali than Mr Jaak Juske? I also ask whether war crimes and ethnic cleansings are, in your opinion, topics that should at least be discussed on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U155	Thank you, my good colleague. It is very difficult to assess whether I am better informed or not. I don't know how to measure it. I certainly do not consider myself an African expert or a good analyst of this crisis. But it must be based on the best knowledge of specialists, which will be brought to the Commission or to various meetings. To quote a good colleague, Valdo Randpere, who says that this is a very good draft and I would like to be sure to support it, the fact is that it is a difficult draft, it is a complicated draft. This has to be acknowledged, but in this situation a better solution has not been developed at the level of the best professionals and also politicians. Sure, every conflict is hurting someone's interests. There is no point in hiding that people are being killed there, with the aim of stabilising the situation. Pulling boundaries in this Chamber on the basis of ethics or ethics, which is my knowledge, and how much this would contribute to decision-making in this situation, I think, is not the most ethical and sensible approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U156	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U157	Good manager! Good waitress! In the past, Minister of Defence Luik has repeatedly spoken and emphasised that this is one of the most dangerous of Estonia's missions. But my question is whether, in order to maintain and maintain good allied relations with France, we can forget what is actually happening in the 'Malican State', particularly what is related to these local problems and to the Tuaregs. Can they be peacefully sacrificed and said that this is a very good bill? I think that, compared to others, this is, to put it mildly, not the best draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U158	Thank you. Speaking to you in the same language, it can be said that we can undoubtedly go anywhere by talking about a white man who has gone to Africa to bring democracy. We're in the situations we're in today. Every act has consequences, and today such a tactic has been agreed. Appreciate It for Good or Bad? I don't have that competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U159	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U160	You mentioned in your report that our mission will help bring peace to Mali and thereby reduce mass immigration. How is this possible if, since the establishment of the country in the north of Mali, there has been essentially an ethnic conflict that has been led to the cramping holding of the borders of the colonial states?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U161	Yes, we can put it in the sense that trafficking in human beings is also a very important part of the region. Combating trafficking in human beings, interfering with it, is also a key issue for terrorism. Once again, there may be very different points of view on this issue, but once again, I must rely on the proposals made by the best experts in the field, who have certainly been on the ground, negotiated with the allies several times, also interacting with the representatives of the local authorities. That's what this position was born of. You understand that I, even if I wanted to do so, probably have no opportunity to come up with a fundamental personal position on this issue in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U162	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U163	Thank you. Good waitress! It is quite exciting that your coalition partner, who, until recently, showed a striking ignorance of the situation in Syria, for example, has now taken seriously into consideration what is happening in Mali, and will do so in very detail. But we can see that, in fact, the vice-chairman of the EKRE and a member of the government who is one of the performers of this draft have joined us in this Chamber. Could you please tell your fellow Members, Reuben Kaalep and Peeter Ernits, that they can also ask the initiator of the draft, or member of the Government of the Republic, who is their party partner, and that they do not have to put you as a representative of the Commission in this uncomfortable situation? Is such an opportunity conceivable?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U164	Thank you. Good colleague! I understand that Parliament is not a classroom. Once said here, I do not think that every Member of the Commission should have the same message. That's what Jürgen Ligi said here today quite acutely.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U165	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U166	Thank you, good Chairman. I understand that the coalition may have had too little explaining work on certain drafts so that everyone can understand in the same way what our foreign policy is made up of, how it is designed and with what instruments and what its purpose is. My question, however, is that perhaps you are reminding everyone whether amendments to this draft decision have been tabled. In fact, members of the Riigikogu are also able to table amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U167	Thank you. There were no amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U168	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to negotiate? There's no call. As no amendments to the draft have been tabled, we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic to extend the term for the use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian state during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali 73. Please take a stand and vote. 60 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 4 votes against and 1 abstention. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U169	Today's 13th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea and the Rail Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Kalev Kallo, member of the Economic Commission, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U170	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act. a on September 9th. The draft will transpose into Estonian law European Union directives aimed at modernising and harmonising safety requirements for passenger ships, improving the safety of passengers and crew and the possibilities for rescue on passenger ships, and ensuring that the consequences of search and rescue and possible accident are dealt with more effectively and that the competent authorities have operational information on persons on board passenger ships, as well as the harmonisation of mandatory inspections on passenger ships and high-speed passenger craft and the reduction of inspection procedures. The first reading of Bill 47 took place on 25 September. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 9 October at 5.15 p.m. by the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. Proposals for the draft were submitted to the lead committee by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Committee on Economic Affairs prepared the second reading twice: on 21 October and 4 November. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also attended the meeting of the Commission on 4 November. The Commission decided to make four amendments to the draft, all of which were submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The text of the draft was edited between two readings. Technical and linguistic changes have been made to the draft, which in no case alter the content of the draft. The linguistic and technical specifications in the text of the draft act are underlined. Now for the amendments. The first amendment is the most meaningful and concerns rail law. The Commission's proposal is to supplement the draft with § 2, which introduces amendments to the Railway Act. Paragraphs 11 and 12 of § 92 of the Railway Act provide for exceptions to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the rights and obligations of rail passengers in the implementation of certain articles. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with Article 2 (4) of the Regulation, the derogations can be extended twice for a maximum period of five years. The derogations have already been extended once. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications wishes to extend most of the derogations for a further five years as a result of the consultation of rail passenger transport operators. The proposal for an extension of the derogations was intended to be made with the full text of the railway law, which, unfortunately, has not moved forward in the planned timeframes. However, the draft has gone through a coordination round between ministries. There were no substantive comments on the extension of the exemptions in the co-ordination of the draft proposal, i.e. there is formal coordination of the ministries in this case. The railway undertakings have taken into account in their operational plans that some of the derogations will be extended for another five years. Non-renewal of derogations may lead to costs for economic operators which they have not foreseen, or they have planned development work over a longer period of time, in order to be able to comply with all the requirements of the Regulation after 3 December 2024. As the draft is supplemented by amendments to the Railway Act, it is also necessary to complete the title of the draft. Also, since the draft is supplemented by § 2, which introduces amendments to the Railway Act, a brief title describing their content will also be added to all sections of the draft for reasons of clarity. All exceptions were reviewed. The exceptions to Article 18 (4) and (5) of the Regulation, i.e. after 3 December 2019, will apply these regulations in Estonia also on domestic train paths, cannot be extended. Article 18 (4) provides that the railway undertaking shall, at the request of the passenger, certify that the rail transport service is either delayed, has resulted in a lack of connection or has been cancelled. The extension of this derogation is not justified and the potential additional burden of proof does not entail significant costs for the carrier. AS Eesti Linin trains (Elron) as a domestic passenger service provider is ready to implement it if necessary. Similarly, for the purposes of Article 18 (5), paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the Regulation, the railway undertaking concerned shall pay particular attention to the needs of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility and persons accompanying them. Here, too, the extension of the derogations is not justified and Elron is prepared to meet the requirement. Further, until 3 December 2024, the differences in the application of Articles 10, 13 (2), 15 and 22 to international passenger transport by rail, both domestic and Russian, would remain valid. Under this exception, the following rights and obligations remain subject to the exemption: Article 10, alignment of carriers' travel information and reservation system with the European Commission Regulation on the technical specification for interoperability relating to the subsystem Telematics applications for passenger transport services of the trans-European rail system. This is a technical development of travel information and reservation systems, which requires time and additional financial resources. Furthermore, not all the technical requirements laid down in the Commission Regulation relate to the ticketing system used for international transport to the east. Next, Article 13 (2) introduces an advance payment of EUR 21000 which the railway undertaking should pay to its loved ones in the event of the death of a passenger. Since paragraph 1 of that Article already provides for an obligation to pay an advance within 15 days to cover the immediate costs of the death or injury of a passenger, the introduction of an exception to paragraph 2 does not significantly prejudice the right of the deceased to receive an advance. The derogation is maintained as the minimum amount of advance payment laid down in paragraph 2 is disproportionately high compared to the direct costs associated with the death of a normal person in Estonia. Next, Article 15 regulates the responsibility of the railway undertaking for delay, missed connection and cancellation of the journey. As the railway infrastructure has not yet completed large-scale restructuring and development activities aimed at ensuring a high quality and safe infrastructure, there are still a number of unplanned schedule changes and delays to the trains and therefore the full application of this article is not possible. According to Article 15, the railway undertaking must always assume responsibility for the passenger, regardless of the existence of fault, and subsequently resolve the costs with the responsible parties. On the basis of long-term cooperation agreements between the infrastructure manager and the railway undertaking, it is not possible for the railway undertaking to claim compensation for damage from the infrastructure manager where, for example, the delay in the journey was due to the maintenance of the railway carried out by the infrastructure manager. Article 22 imposes an obligation to assist disabled persons at stations where passenger service staff are available and in stations without personnel, information on the nearest station with personnel where the disabled person has access to the necessary assistance must be published. In essence, most of the railway stations in Estonia are without personnel serving passengers. Under the station manager referred to in the regulation, the station manager is meant to serve passengers, but we only have the technical side, the station managers responsible for ensuring the operation of the railway infrastructure, whose competence does not include passenger service. The provision of assistance at the station requires the hiring of additional staff and therefore creates significant additional costs for the railway undertaking and Article 22 is therefore not applied for a further five years. However, it should be noted that the proportion of station buildings in use in Estonia is very low, they are generally single-storey and people with reduced mobility have access to them, so it may not be appropriate to hire additional staff to ensure assistance. In addition to the above Articles, the provisions of Articles 16 and 17 shall remain subject to an additional five-year derogation on international train paths from Estonia to third countries (Tallinn-Moscow train path). These articles regulate the arrangements for reimbursement of the ticket price in the event of a delay of one hour or more. International trains crossing the borders of the European Union and third countries experience delays approximately quarterly due to delays in border procedures. (b) hotel or other accommodation and transport between the station and the accommodation, if physically possible; Since Elron trains do not have catering facilities and are generally not available in stations, it is not possible to get a drink and a meal in a reasonable way. Given Estonia's small size, it is not reasonable to place a passenger in the accommodation in case of delay, as it is possible to reach a destination with moderate effort from each corner of Estonia. This was the largest and the first amendment, supported by 5 members of the Commission in the vote in committee, was 2 against and 2 abstentions. Now Amendment 2, which is much shorter. The Commission's proposal is to amend § 1 (3) of the draft and to make a linguistic amendment to the provision and replace the word 'persons' with'relevant'. The wording of subsection 1 (7) of the draft is added to the statement. The purpose of the provision is to formulate both the content of the data and the manner in which the data are transmitted, in the same way as § 1 of the draft. This amendment was supported by consensus. Amendment 3 The Commission's proposal is to supplement the draft with a new clause in § 1 of the draft, in subsection 31 of § 78 of the Maritime Safety Act, the words "according to the form' are replaced by the words "containing the data laid down in the Regulation'. This amendment was also adopted by consensus. Amendment 4. As the draft is supplemented by a new section, the Commission's proposal is to replace the existing subsection 2 by § 3 and title that paragraph. A second paragraph is added, according to which the amendments to the Railway Act will enter into force on the day following publication in the Official Journal of the State. A faster enforcement of the amendment to the Railway Act is important, as the existing Railway Act provides for derogations from 3 December 2019. I will now take a brief look at the Commission's debate on the substantive amendments to the draft. The members of the Commission wanted to know whether or not the exceptions had been negotiated with the market participant. Indrek Laineveer, representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, replied that exemptions had been negotiated with economic operators and sent to other ministries for coordination. The necessary procedures have been carried out on MKM. Members of the Commission were wondering whether Article 22 on communication with disabled people had been negotiated with the Ministry of Social Affairs. In response, we learned that amendments have been sent to the Ministry of Social Affairs for coordination and no comments have been received from them. The members of the Commission stated that they did not accept any of the exceptions mentioned from the point of view of the consumer. According to Annely Akkermann, Member of the Commission, EUR 21000 in the event of the death of a person, there is no significant money given the costs of burial and the restructuring in life. It may also be necessary to offer snacks for some diseases, such as diabetes, if you need a snack to keep your blood sugar level. According to Indrek Laineveer, a representative of the Ministry, Elron must ensure that the passenger reaches the final destination. It is not reasonable to place people in hotels within Estonia if another means of transport could ensure that people can reach their destination. Members of the Commission also thought that the train company should be able to guarantee overnight stays, especially for minors. In response, it was said that the taxi ride Elron would compensate and that they would also order a taxi if necessary. Laineveer added that not all passengers want accommodation, but prefer another transport to reach their destination. Jüri Jaanson pointed out that Article 22 obliges the provision of assistance to disabled persons at stations where the service staff is available and in non-staffed stations of information on where the assistance could be obtained. Jaanson wanted to know why it is necessary to postpone the assistance of disabled people and what happens after five years, whether they are already preparing to stop the derogation from being extended. In response, we have heard that the obligation is currently being postponed by five years with the regulation on rail passengers' rights and obligations, but the regulation is being amended and there are further things that need to be implemented in European Union law, the regulation will certainly change and the articles will also change within five years. At the same time, we have received confirmation that, since the regulation could extend this derogation twice and this is the second extension, no further extension is possible anyway and that in five years all the requirements of the regulation will have to be met. Okay. Not all disputes seem to be reported due to lack of time. I come to the Commission's final decisions. The Commission proposed to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 6 November, and the Commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading. When the second reading of the draft is closed, the commission's proposal to send the draft for the third reading to the Riigikogu plenary by 13 November and to hold the final vote on the draft. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U171	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U172	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! As you yourself pointed out, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications said that the target groups were involved in the discussion of this draft. By target groups, he meant railway companies. They have all been negotiated on the subject of the first amendment, including Article 22 on persons with disabilities. We have also heard that coordination has also been carried out, and the Ministry of Social Affairs has no problems in this regard. However, yesterday it became clear that the other half of the target group, namely the disabled people themselves and their representative, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, has not been fully involved. Can such a haste of legislation be called good lawmaking or good practice, and should we continue to proceed with this draft in such a case?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U173	Since, as I understand it, the Chamber of People with Disabilities is in the sphere of influence of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs had unqualifiedly coordinated this draft and there was no question of further coordination in the Commission, I can only take the Commission's view here that, according to this information, this amendment must be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U174	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U175	Good manager! Good waitress! As Estonian railway stations are usually closed and station managers do not have a classic task, I understand that if disabled people are on the platform or, say, at the station, they should look at how they can. If they get on the train, they'll be helped. That's the way it's gonna be for the next five years. Another thing, if you're already on the train and the train is late for over an hour, then there's no chance of getting a meal and a soft drink in five years, even for those who aren't disabled. But in five years, will the situation change? And also, how much does it cost trainers, for example, to help the disabled to get on the train, or if the person is not disabled and the train is delayed so that he can have this meal and soft drink? Are there any calculations of how much this could cost and whether the situation will change in five years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U176	This question arose in the course of the debate, and the reply of the ministerial representative was, as I mentioned before, that since it is not possible to extend more, but only two periods can be extended, five years later the extension of the regulation is not possible, and this must be taken into account by both railway undertakings and infrastructure owners. In five years, they'll have to be ready. There was no discussion in the Commission about how much this could cost them, but it is their job to deal with it in five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U177	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U178	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I have the following question. Did you not make any sense during the discussions in the Commission, or did no one suggest that this issue, especially when the draft has been extended in certain respects, could be discussed by the Committee on Social Affairs? Because, in fact, it cannot be very satisfied that dealing with the needs of people with special needs has been postponed again for five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U179	Thank you. I can only answer by not having a debate in the Commission to take a position, for example, from the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U180	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U181	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague! I actually had the same question as Helmen, but I also have a line. I cannot agree if there is an understanding in this Chamber that, as the Ministry of Social Affairs manages, among other things, to stand up for the well-being of disabled people in certain areas of life, but not in all areas of life, it is quite sufficient if the Ministry of Social Affairs, by default, coordinates the draft and does not have to communicate with the organisations of disabled people. All of us in this Chamber must, and all the committees must, communicate with different target groups, including people with disabilities. But to the question I had, I got the answer from the answer to Helmen's previous question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U182	Thank you. George Jaanson, please! Microphone, please! It's working!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U183	Thank you very much. I come to the last question. We in the Commission did indeed examine whether feedback from the Ministry of Social Affairs has come to the coordination circle. Yes, there was unqualified feedback. By default, we really assumed that the Ministry of Social Affairs might pass the information on to the House of Disabled People. Unfortunately, this has not happened, the House of People with Disabilities is not aware of this bill. By the way, in the long-term development of the railway law, no one has contacted them, never, even now, in haste. So in this respect, this should indeed have been done by the Commission. I myself believe that we must now reject this amendment here and give the target group time to get acquainted with it. That's my point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U184	It wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U185	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U186	Good manager! Good waitress! Let me get this straight. The invalids have to wait another five years before somebody gets them on the train at the station. Then, in five years' time, the non-invalites and the invalids who are already on the train can expect a free meal and a soft drink if, for example, the train is an hour late. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U187	You got that extension right. That's right. Since these requirements have been postponed for five years, we do not have a station assistance service. As confirmed by a representative of the Ministry, it is quite costly, it requires additional staff to be employed. The same is true of catering. So you got it right. These trimmings will be postponed and this service will not be available for five years. This could happen before five years, because it can't be said that if five years fall, it wasn't the last day, and tomorrow it will be. It is likely that railway undertakings will have to gradually switch to it. This may happen somewhat earlier, but according to the bill, it is, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U188	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U189	Good manager! Good waitress, first of all, thank you for your very meaningful explanations. However, Article 13 (2) imposed an advance payment of EUR 21000; the railway undertaking should pay that amount to its loved ones in the event of the passenger's death. If I understand correctly, it didn't come into this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U190	Article 13 (2) establishes this 21000. The entry into force of this paragraph shall be postponed for five years. The justification was that paragraph 1 already requires the railway undertaking to pay the real costs within 15 days. Therefore, the entry into force of paragraph 2 is postponed for five years in order to immediately make an advance payment of EUR 21000.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U191	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U192	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm interested in the railroad issue, not so much safety at sea. How's the bike gonna get on the train? The summer was full of shit. Sometimes it didn't. Does this bill, or does this change, make it better, or will a bicycle be completely forbidden on a train?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U193	I regret to say that this was not discussed at all in the framework of this draft, and therefore I have nothing to answer here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U194	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! I have so far understood that we are making drafts for people so that their actions can be better achieved. The present draft and these amendments still concern, above all, people who should be better placed to receive certain services. What you are now proposing on the subject of postponement is, in fact, based on the fact that those who have a problem or who have a problem will not receive aid again for the next five years. Do you not feel that this is irresponsible for the people for whom these services are intended? We are not doing these things just for businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U195	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U196	Since I am here as a Commission waitress, I tried to make a fairly thorough review of the changes. My personal feelings were not discussed in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U197	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U198	Thank you. I heard from your speech that this advance of EUR 21000 remains, in the sense of the law, a stop or an unrealization. But what's the 21,000, what's the calculation of? You referred in your reply to the fact that the direct costs of death (I do not remember exactly how your expression was) are guaranteed. What does this 21,000 contain? It is certainly not possible to make up for human life with any number of money, but some compensation in this case seems quite natural.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U199	This 21000 is the charge provided for in paragraph 2 of the Directive that a railway undertaking should pay to its loved ones in the event of the death of a passenger. So this 21000 comes from this directive, paragraph 2, which we are postponing with the current proposal for five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U200	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U201	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Was there a debate that Article 15 regulates the responsibility of the railway undertaking for delay, missed connection and cancellation of the journey? It is also postponed for five years, but the construction of railway network infrastructure in Estonia is likely to continue for five years. What happens in five years?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U202	As I said earlier, in five years' time, all of this will have to be complied with, because the directive does not provide for more than two postponements. In five years' time, railway undertakings will have to be ready to comply with this directive for all cuttings.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U203	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U204	One more question, Honourable waitress. I realized that the so-called waiting compensation with hot drinks and sandwiches has somehow been delayed or is not really valid. I had this question that if it could not be met by the deadlines of the directive, why it was not discussed that it could still be fulfilled within a certain period of time. I understand that the question is either financial capacity or that (although you referred very nicely to a possible rail repair, which may often happen in our infrastructure), that, as I believe, if the company knows that there may be obligations, it will also make more effort to repair the infrastructure and maybe certain stagnations will be much shorter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U205	It is now the case that this catering obligation, which we are talking about, is the responsibility of the railway undertaking, but the infrastructure is repaired by the infrastructure company and, as has been said previously, by the agreement between the two. So, in fact, Elron is responsible, but Elron's trains do not have the possibility of catering, and creating it on Elron's trains requires quite an extra cost. We know that the state is subsidising, which would ultimately also mean increasing subsidies.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U206	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, for a proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety 47. The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act. a on 9 September, in order to transpose into Estonian law European Union directives aimed at modernising and harmonising safety requirements for passenger ships, improving the safety of passengers and crews and improving the possibilities for rescue on passenger ships. Such a bill. The proposed form of the draft is fully relevant. Safety at sea is very important. It is right and good that the maritime safety laws of all the countries of the European Union have been harmonised and transposed into national law. That's not a problem at all. The first reading of Bill 47 took place on 25 September. The deadline for tabling amendments was 9 October and no amendments were tabled at that time. So what's the problem? The problems that cannot be accepted in the Riigikogu Chamber are essentially three. Firstly, procedural problems. If you speak in the language of the people, you can pass on both members of the Riigikogu and target groups, i.e. rail passengers, especially disabled passengers. On 21 October, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed, under other matters, the Ministry's request to put the draft under consideration on the plenary agenda 47 today. Why this is needed, the Ministry had to explain at the meeting of the Economic Commission on 4 November. On that day, the decision was taken in a consensual manner because, why not, the draft is appropriate, no amendments were tabled by the deadline, everything seemed to be in order. Of course, members of the Riigikogu want to be responsive and kind in their work; they do not want to make small things big, to slow things down in vain. Compliantness is based on trust. Representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications attended the meeting on 4 November. Four amendments were tabled according to these indications. Amendments 3, 4 and 5 clarify the draft law linguistically and specify the entry into force provisions. However, Amendment 1 concerns all Estonian rail passengers, especially disabled passengers. In essence, this also means bringing the travel information and booking system into line with the European Commission's regulation, which is a technical problem. Even if the members of the Riigikogu agree that this information and booking system need not be brought into line with the regulation, as it is known in advance that this requirement will soon end, it should be possible to discuss it in principle separately on substantive issues. What, then, are the issues of substance? I can't give everyone an overview, but I'm still talking about a few. Under Amendment 1 of the draft proposal, the differences in Articles 10 and 13 (2), 15 and 22 of the Regulation would remain valid until 3 December 2024. Let's take a closer look. Article 13 (2) introduces an advance payment of EUR 21000 which the railway undertaking should pay to its loved ones in the event of the death of a passenger. According to the proposal, this exception will remain because the minimum amount of advance payment laid down in the paragraph is disproportionately high compared to the direct costs associated with the death of a normal person in Estonia. That was the justification for the draft. Is such a reasoning moral? In addition, it was said that the travel company should have available resources for this purpose. Isn't it? Is it really moral that the costs directly related to death in Estonia are less than 21000? What if the parent of three minor children dies? Or if a passenger gets killed in Italy, New Zealand or the United States? We must take into account that in Estonia passengers from all countries take the train. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U208	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U209	What kind of exception do you really need here, because the railway undertaking's costs will eventually be covered by insurance or the perpetrator? Why reduce the rights of people who have lost loved ones on the Estonian train? Article 15 regulates the liability of the railway undertaking for delay, missed connection and cancellation of the journey. According to Article 15, the railway undertaking must always assume responsibility for the passenger, regardless of the existence of fault, and subsequently resolve the costs with the responsible party. Isn't that elementary? However, with the draft, we are asking for an exemption for the railway undertaking because the large-scale restructuring work on the railway has not yet ended. Is it any comfort or assistance to a child on a train from Tallinn who, when he arrives late in Tartu, discovers that the last bus to Alatskivi has already left and the night will come? All right, the Estonian may be calling a friend, but a foreigner with a backpack? Article 22 imposes an obligation to assist disabled persons in stations where passenger service staff are available and unstaffed stations must have published information on the nearest station with personnel where the disabled person has access to the necessary assistance. Isn't that elementary in Estonia today? Why is it necessary to exempt disabled persons from making the necessary assistance and information available? At present, the safety of the sea is sewn to a very polite jacket button with a hole jacket. This has been done in violation of good procedural practices, without offering technical choices, without having a substantive debate and without involving the target group. I propose that we interrupt the second reading of Bill 47. The entry into force of the original amendments, which concern maritime safety provisions, is due to take effect on 21 December 2019. If we interrupt the second reading of draft 47 today, we will in no way prevent the initiators from achieving the objective of transposing the requirements of the European Union Directive into Estonian law by 21 December. a. We have time to discuss. If we interrupt the second reading of Bill 47 today, we will take the time to discuss whether it is normal for rail passengers in Estonia to have the same consumer rights as the rest of the European Union. Thank you so much for your thought.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U210	I am also asking for an interruption proposal in writing. Oh, it's coming. Got it. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U211	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We're discussing maritime safety, but we ended up on the railroad. On a proposal from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, urgent proposals to amend the railway law, which were grafted on to the correct draft law, came to the meeting of the Monday Economic Commission. Their content is that once again, by way of derogation from the European Community Regulation, the implementation of the obligations of railway undertakings must be extended for a period of five years. In total, they may be extended for two five-year periods and the first period shall expire on 3 December. But let's start thinking basically now. Serious thinking is that the exception to the obligation means that at the end of the period the commitment must still be made. Perhaps railway undertakings should have been aware of and prepared for the situation as early as 2014. Why they didn't do it, we don't know that. It can be argued, it can be assessed whether or not the exceptions are justified, it is practical or not, but I will shed some light on the other side. Indeed, not all target groups were involved in this whole amendment of the railway law. It has been said repeatedly here that railway undertakings have been involved, on whose proposal or, as has been stated here, that, after consulting them, these derogations will be extended once again for a period of five years. At the meeting of the Economic Commission, we learned that ministries, the government sector, including the Ministry of Social Affairs, were also involved in coordinating the draft without any comments. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not consulted the most direct target group, the target group of Article 22 of the European Community Regulation, i.e. people with disabilities, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. Why is that, we don't know that. The Rail Law has been dealt with for a long time. We have heard that this has gone beyond the scope of the procedure, but within this framework, we could easily have consulted them as well, informed them. Yesterday it turned out that they were not even aware of the matter, not to mention that they had time to discuss it. There can be no justification for not informing the target group, not including it. This cannot be justified in any way, even if it really turns out that extending the derogations is reasonable and practical. But the arguments are weak, we did not hear any strong arguments either from the Committee on Economic Affairs or from this panel as to why this has to be done. The argument was simply that the consultation revealed that this was the case. Here comes a systemic problem. In fact, I have been on the Social Committee of the Riigikogu for a long time. In the Committee on Social Affairs, it is common practice that targeted groups are involved in amendments to topics or drafts concerning target groups. It's been elementary. I don't know, I don't think it's just as normal in other committees. It's a problem, this bad practice we have to break. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U212	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U213	The inclusion of the target group should be a good legislative practice. We have tried to implement this carefully in theory, but in practice we tend to ignore it. This cannot be accepted. In practice, both legislators and executive power tend to ignore this. At the moment, the problem is that we have no certainty that even if we get coordination from the ministry, we will receive feedback that the ministry has actually been in contact with the target group. So how does the target group, in this case the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, find out about the things that affect them at all, it's entirely chance-based. This practice of non-inclusion must be broken. I think it needs to be broken right now, and it cannot be pushed forward again, even if we say that these changes are very important to us and cost us a lot. Therefore, on behalf of the Reform Party, I call for the rejection of the first amendment to the Maritime Safety Act. If this rejection does not take place, we propose that the second reading of draft maritime safety law 47 be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U214	Okay. Next up, Kalvi Hard Speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U215	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! When the draft law on maritime safety came to the Committee on Economic Affairs, it was known to everyone that it was a small piece of legislation from the directives, which still goes quickly and probably knows what major changes would not come. However, as it has become clear, before the second reading, such amendments came, which also transformed the Maritime Safety Act into a railway law. I agree with a hundred percent of what Annely Akkermann and Jüri Jaanson said on the remote. But I did not come here to propose to interrupt reading because, good friends, if the first amendment is supported in the Chamber, the Bureau has an obligation to stop reading the draft, because we all, here too, have not had the opportunity to propose amendments to the Rail Law. So, fellas, let's vote on the changes, I think the Bureau will meet and propose that we cancel the second reading of the draft. After that, we can make our amendments and come back to second reading when the time is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U216	Well, thank you! There are no further requests to speak. We will go to the amendments to draft 47. Four amendments have been tabled from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take everyone fully into account. Amendment 1 Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U217	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U218	Thank you. Let us put this proposal to a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? Looks like we can. I shall put to the vote the draft amendment 47 No 1. Please state your point of view. Thank you. There are 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, 30 against and 15 against. The amendment has been accepted. Amendment 2: Number 3. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U219	Thank you. The Reform Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of Bill 47.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U220	Yeah, let's take that into account. Number 4, Amendment 4. [[The excitement in the hall.]] Thank you. We now also have a proposal from the Reform Party Group in writing. The Reform Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on maritime safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. [[Voices in the hall.]] Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U221	Thank you. A question for the Chairman of the Riigikogu. Since the first amendment was supported in this Chamber and very substantially amends the law on maritime safety and, as I said in my speech, the ambassadors have not been able to propose amendments to the draft with this 'new amendment', does the Bureau not consider stopping reading the draft? Why don't you consult with the board of directors?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U222	Yes, in this respect, you are right that the time for getting acquainted has been rather short, but since the Reform Party has submitted a proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft, I think that the decision will remain with the honourable members of the Riigikogu. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U223	It's one way to cross the road, but that's it. However, if the Board of the Riigikogu decides that the reading of the bill will be interrupted, this decision will not have to be voted in the Chamber. So I am still suggesting that you have this opportunity at least to discuss the subject with the Bureau.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U224	All right! Coming to the wishes of the members of the Riigikogu, I will take a ten-minute break on behalf of the President of the Riigikogu and the Bureau will discuss this issue. 10 minutes recess, session adjourned at 4:27 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U225	Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau discussed the proposal to interrupt the second reading of draft 47. However, as no such proposal was made in the committee during the discussions, the Bureau decided to vote in the Chamber on the decision of the Group of the Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of bill 47. The Bureau did not support the proposal for the Bureau to interrupt its reading. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U226	Thank you. I'll agree with the board's decision. But I'm asking for the future and for the sake of protocol. If the Commission has either added another law to the draft or amended the draft substantially and if the Commission has not decided that the reading of the draft should be interrupted, will the Bureau in future, based on the sentence you said today that the Commission did not decide to do so, never stop reading the draft, which is actually its right and even its duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U227	Thank you. I didn't say that. The board will certainly act on the basis of its best judgement and our Home and Working Procedures Act. But I'm gonna... Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U228	Thank you. The high-ranking board was not in full composition, so maybe you will enlighten us, which were the considerations why it is justified that such a strange combination of laws is acceptable in the Riigikogu Hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U229	Thank you. One reason is what I have already said that no objections were raised in the Commission. The second is that two weeks ago, the Minister for Economic Affairs visited the Commission, where he explained why it would be necessary to introduce this rail supplement into the law. This need was understood and accepted by the Commission. Are there any procedural questions? Please! Jürgen Ligi has already been able to ask his own question. What? What? Yeah, okay. Question two, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U230	Please open it, though. According to my information, you are one person. Will you leave it entirely to yourself and call yourself a board? What exactly was the argument you had with yourself? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] What were the pros and cons?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U231	I believe that it is not unknown to Mr Jürgen Ligi that we are living in an information technology age and that we also have electronic means of communication. We used them. So thank you! George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U232	As a second reason, you pointed out a third-party statement that the Minister in the Commission said that these were urgent proposals. But rather, that statement should have been about why this proposal to interrupt was rejected. In committee, the Minister did not talk about which target groups had been dealt with. At the time, however, the assumption was that all the target groups were aligned. So I don't know if you can rely on a third person's statement as a second reason to make such a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U233	Thank you. This proposal has also been approved by the ministries. I understand that the Commission does not directly deal with third groups and interest groups. Which groups the Ministry of Economic Affairs has been communicating with, I have no data on it. It is certainly possible to find quite a lot of different interest groups. Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U234	Thank you, President of the sitting. I understand it's possible to get in touch on different channels. But since I can't see Helir here, and I can't ask him, and Siimu I can't see him here right now, I'm asking if you called both board members and gave me a full picture of where we are. If there really is such a bad practice that something has been brought to the Chamber of Riigikogu in such a way that it is not involved, and the members of the Riigikogu, as we understand it, have not had a meaningful opportunity to discuss this issue, then in fact, it is only possible that the Bureau would take time off and return this draft to the Commission. Did you talk to both members of the board, explain them in depth, and they were not there during the debate in this Chamber, which contains the content of the problem? What did they both say to you? Why don't you let us know?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U235	Siim Kallas, second vice president, is unfortunately in the hospital. I spoke with Helir-Valdor Seeder, who received a pretty thorough overview of what we are discussing in this Chamber. We agreed and the Bureau decided that the Bureau would not interrupt the reading of the draft, but that we would vote on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to interrupt the second reading. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U236	Thank you. My procedural question is motivated by how you answered the previous question. The Management Board shall be a collegial body consisting of three members. You either called both members or you didn't call. If you didn't call both members, then you can't tell them that there's been some sort of board meeting over the phone. So if you didn't talk to Siim Kallas or at least didn't try to reach him on the phone, then this board meeting is nothing. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U237	That is your position. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U238	Thank you. For the sake of the stenogram, however, I would like to point out, firstly, that Siim Kallas is not in the hospital, and secondly, the phone of Siim Kallas works very well, I personally spoke to him exactly five minutes ago, it also worked ten minutes ago. So if this trial was on the phone and you didn't even try to call him, there would have been no reason not to call him. But for the sake of the verbatim, he's picking up the phone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U239	Thank you. I'm very glad to hear that Siim Kallas is already out of the hospital. According to my information, he was there. It's nice to have a better health. But I would remind my fellow Members that, during the debate on this draft in the Commission, the decision to conclude the second reading was consensual. This was a consensual decision, supported by all the political groups of the Riigikogu, all members of the committee. All the members of the Commission took part in this meeting; everyone was present. I repeat: the decision was consensual. So we have no reason to question it. I vote on the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party Group... How? [[A voice from the hall.]] Let's do it again, sally. Let's go to the voting procedure, please! I am voting on the proposal by the Reform Party Group to interrupt the second reading of bill 47. Please take a stand and vote. There were 31 delegates in favour of the interruption and 49 against, with no abstentions. The proposal to interrupt the second reading of draft 47 has been rejected and the second reading of the draft is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U240	Let's go to the next item. The second reading of the Bill of Amendment of the Securities Market Act and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Andres Sut, member of the Monetary Affairs Committee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U241	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We will then come from the sea and from the railroad to the financial markets. I recall the content of the draft: the transposition of the European Union's Shareholders' Rights Directive into Estonian law, which aims to promote communication between stock exchange companies and shareholders. Perhaps this draft concerns only those companies whose shares are traded. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic. Neither the members of the Riigikogu nor the political groups submitted proposals within the deadline for submitting amendments. The Commission discussed this draft at five meetings. Interest groups were also present: representatives of Kaubamaja Grupp AS and Nasdaq CSD SE Estonian branch. I will discuss the amendments tabled by both the Kaubamaja Group and Nasdaq CSD SE, as well as the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Finance. The commission proposed 13 amendments to the draft, three of which were of a technical nature and the rest were more substantive. These amendments specified the obligation to withdraw the prospectus and its scope. Similarly, the rules concerning the definition of the payment system and the finality of the settlements to be carried out, the order of satisfaction in the event of the bankruptcy of public authorities, as well as § 151 of the Securities Register Keeping Act, which governs the payment of payments through a CSD and the regulation concerning the submission of records by registrars, i.e. that the register of securities is submitted at the end of the business day of the settlement system, were clarified. In addition, there was a proposal concerning the language in which the documents were finalised. This was also the only point where the Commission's decision was not consensual. The proposal included a requirement in the Securities Market Act that, if the prospectus is not disclosed in Estonian, the Estonian translation of the prospectus should also be disclosed together with the offer. The initiator's proposal was to limit the prospectus to a summary in Estonian. 5 members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs (Tiit Kala, Aivar Kokk, Natalia Malleus, Merry Aart and Peeter Rahnel) voted against and Mr Lauri, Mr Ligi and Mr Sutt with their abstentions. Similarly, the definition of the head of the stock exchange (only directors are considered directors) was clarified and the principles of remuneration for the management of the stock exchange were also clarified. Similarly, the amendments to the points to be included in § 1352 of the Securities Market Act concerning the principles of remuneration and the remuneration report of the management of the issuer of the share that provides the voting rights traded on the market were proposed. In addition, there were three other proposals that were not taken into account by the Commission. The first concerned the language requirement already mentioned. The Commission made its proposal, which laid down the requirement for the entire prospectus to be translated into Estonian. In addition, the commission did not take into account the wish of the Estonian branch of Nasdaq CSD SE to waive the possibility of blocking securities accounts in order to ensure the maintenance of the securities register in the Securities Register Act and instead to restrict the possibility of blocking only securities. During the Commission's discussion, it was considered that this amendment would require further analysis as it would emerge from the framework of this draft. Finally, the commission did not support the wish of issuers to amend the regulation on the disclosure and approval of a significant transaction by persons associated with the company and to raise the threshold for a significant transaction to be disclosed above the 10% of consolidated equity set out in the draft. The consultation found that a higher threshold would make it easier to withdraw money from stock exchange companies. Procedural decisions. On 22 October, the Commission adopted the following consensual decisions: Firstly, propose that the second reading take place on today's date. Secondly, when the second reading of the draft is closed, the Commission's proposal to send the draft for the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 13 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U242	Thank you. Madam High Representative, there are also questions for you. Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have this question: did I understand correctly that your group does not support the fact that companies entering the stock market could publish their prospectus in Estonian? I know that the Reform Party has today introduced a bill that specifically concerns the fact that the Estonian language could and should be honored. Now I see, if you read it correctly, that all the members of the Reform Party that belong to the Commission do not seem to support this proposal. Why don't you support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U244	We're talking about different things. Of course, we support the use of Estonian. In this case, we are talking about a full translation of the prospectus into Estonian. So far, it has been considered sufficient to translate the summary of the prospectus. We think it's enough. Of course, the issuer will also be able to translate the entire prospectus, but this will mean an additional effort and cost for the company, which we do not consider to be justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U245	Thank you. Yes, there are still two questions that can be asked. Please, Tõnis Mölder, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U246	Thank you. I imagine that if one company that has great respect for itself goes to the stock market and wants the people of Estonia to invest in its shares, then I think that translating four or five pages into Estonian is the least cost of this matter. I think translation costs are things these companies can pay from their own pockets. Rather, the question is that if companies who really go to the stock market and want Estonians to invest in their shares start to subscribe and buy their shares, then I think that the average Estonian could and should get a full overview of the shares offered by this company in its own language, in Estonian. So I think it's very reasonable to have such an overview. I am very sorry that the Reform Party does not support this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U247	Good questioner! I have not yet seen any prospectus with four or five pages in length. Generally these are a few hundred pages and the translated summary is usually also at least 10 pages. So all the content you need is written in it. As I said, it is not a question of ability, of course. The question is whether we are putting more reasonable burdens on our companies than on other companies in the European Union or whether we are doing it differently. It is certainly not a question of non-importance of the Estonian language. We stand for the Estonian language, I stand for it. These two things, I guess, aren't as related as you're trying to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U248	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U249	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Doesn't it seem to you that in the post-truth era, speaking the truth is overrated? In today's information society, everything has progressed so quickly that maybe just translating the title is enough? Everyone is already more or less able to take stock of the substance by reading the title alone. Did you think of such a proposal? For a brief introduction, translating the title is enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U250	My idea didn't move that fast. I think the content can also be summarised on 10 pages and only the translation of the title is certainly not enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U251	Thank you. Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U252	Thank you. Dear waitress, One of the main reasons why the whole prospectus should not be translated was that so far it has been done that there has been a brief summary. Well, a lot of things have been done so far. With the previous draft, too, the derogations were extended so far, but due to the further extension there was a very big storm. So maybe we shouldn't discuss what's been done so far. But don't you think there's a way to do things differently in the future? Why do you have to do what has been done so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U253	That's a hundred percent I'm in agreement with. I think the worst argument to say is that we do not make changes because this is always the case. I didn't say that. I said that so far it has been enough to have translated the summary. We can take different positions. Some people in the Commission were of the opinion that we were doing more this time, some of us felt that the arrangements that had been in place so far were sufficient. I think it is always important to base ourselves on content, and on content, I believe, everyone did.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U254	Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U255	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! However, do you not think that we live in a free society where everyone should have equal opportunities, whether men or women, with higher or lower levels of education, young people or pensioners? If we leave someone with aunt painting with little language skills, without the possibility of reading stock prospectuses in hundreds of pages, it's humiliating for him, it's taking away equal opportunities from him. In today's society, this is the same violation of the principle of equality between people and human rights as, say, harassment of children or sexual abuse of women. Everyone should still have a level playing field. Don't you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U256	I very much agree that, of course, everyone must have a level playing field. Today's legal space does not impose a requirement for full translation. In that case, it is as if the opportunities are already unequal, which I personally do not think, but in the end, we are all voting here on this bill. In the Commission, there was support for a point that makes translation of the whole prospectus compulsory, so I think that everything is clear on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U257	Thank you. Signe Riisalo.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U258	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I would like to remind you that when we are dealing with legislation, we have to follow some of the principles. It is very good, Mr Vasilyev, that you have pointed out in this case that this equal treatment and accessibility has been available to you here. However, any measure must be targeted and also proportionate. The question here is what is the purpose of this information, which is a few hundred pages, who consumes it and for what it is proportionate to oblige it to translate. No one prohibits doing more and translating it into a few hundred pages, but is it proportionate to oblige it if its consumption is not actually so large? That is the question of proportionality.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U259	I don't know if there was a question here, or if it was more of a line.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U260	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U261	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Can you tell me how many such prospectuses will then be produced and estimated how much would Estonian translators lose income or how much would this income be? Should we not also consider that translators who are able to translate it from a work or from an artifact can provide a better living for their families?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U262	I do not mind that translators have enough work and can translate different materials into different languages. That is certainly not the issue. I would be very pleased to see more and more issuers coming to the Tallinn Stock Exchange. After all, this is the thing that this bill should also stand for, that we get more issuers on the local securities market, which will boost our economy, increase investment, create jobs and also give translators the opportunity to translate more. [[???Küsimus saalist: 'Kui palju aastas?'???]] How much a year? Every number is good. Lately, very few of them have been made, these are the few that have come. It would be much better if we could talk about dozens, not lonely ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U263	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U264	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to unravel this topic of Estonian so that everyone has the same understanding. All parties who are in this Chamber try to raise Estonian to the shield at least once or twice each year. The condition we had for share issues was very clear: in the case of share issues in Estonia, this prospectus must be translated into Estonian. At one point we had an offer from the Ministry that everyone who is Estonian companies should do so, but everyone who is on the foreign market should not do so. We know that from outside Estonia, about 30 companies have made share issues throughout this period. We treat our companies equally. If there is a condition that the Estonian translation should be complete, then it applies to everyone, if it is a summary, then it should be the case for everyone. It should also be stressed that, apart from the introduction of the Estonian translation requirement, we gave the Minister the opportunity to simplify issues a little from 2.5 million to 7 million by decree, but the language requirement still remains there. Why is this language requirement important? In this hall, there are two pages of this understanding of whether it is good or not to make the second pension pillar voluntary, but this theoretically gives rise to 740000 people who could offer their money anywhere. I remember that when we had our first reading, Mr Randpere of the Reform Party was one of those who asked why there was no requirement for Estonian. He, who has lived abroad and has English well in his mouth, had problems when the Port of Tallinn made a share issue, where only the summary was in Estonian. He said it wasn't enough. I think it is our duty to keep our official language, our mother tongue. That's why it's there. It doesn't really matter whether it's the same way or the other way around, it's a matter of nuances. But I just wanted to make it clear that when someone thought about why it was imposed, it was very clear that everyone would have equal opportunities to do things in Estonian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U265	Thank you. Looks like there's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations and go to the amendments. 13 amendments have been tabled by the Steering Committee, the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendment 1, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Amendment 2, the lead committee has taken full account of this. Number 3, the lead commission has taken full account. Number 4, the commission has taken full account. Number 5, the lead commission has taken full account. Number 6, fully accounted for. Number 7, fully accounted for. Number 8, fully accounted for. Number 9, fully accounted for. Number 10, fully accounted for. Number 11, fully accounted for. Number 12, fully accounted for. With regard to Amendment 13, the lead committee has also said to take full account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 28. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U266	Okay. We are going to the 15th item today, the first reading of the draft Act 88 on ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures Relating to Tax Treaties, to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting initiated by the Government of the Republic. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, to waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U267	Dear Speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today, ratification of the Convention comes to the first reading, changes are made to the tax treaties signed by Estonia, which are not in line with the new minimum international standard. This new minimum standard for international taxation was developed by the OECD-G20 common base reduction and profit shifting project, and this work remained in 2013-2015. The aim of the project was to eliminate the possibilities for reducing the tax base and shifting profits at international level. The text of the Convention was finalised in November 2016 and allows countries to combat aggressive tax planning. The objective of the Convention is to speed up the implementation of concrete solutions against tax base erosion and profit shifting. When acceding to the Convention, countries will be able to include new standard contractual provisions in existing bilateral tax agreements without bilateral negotiations. States will also have the possibility, through the Convention, to bring a large number of their tax agreements into line with the new standard at the same time. To date, there have been 90 signatories to the Convention and 90 territories with an independent tax jurisdiction. 37 of these instruments have been deposited with the Secretary-General of the OECD. Estonia, as an OECD Member State, is also expected to ratify this Convention. There are 24 articles in the Convention which allow for changes to the different provisions of tax treaties. Estonia has chosen six of these articles to apply. Three of the selected articles contain a new minimum standard, one OECD good tax practice, the other two articles are necessary to clarify Estonian tax law. Of the 58 tax treaties to be amended by the Convention, many have entered into force more than ten years ago and therefore need to be modernised in any case. In order to ensure that Estonia's tax treaties continue to comply with the minimum international tax standard, the Convention amends the existing tax treaties as follows: In the preamble to all tax treaties, it is clarified that tax treaties aim to prevent tax evasion and to ensure that tax fraud does not result in any non-taxation of revenue. Tax treaties include a general anti-abuse rule. This rule allows the tax authorities not to apply the benefit provided for in the tax treaty if the facts suggest that the benefit was one of the main purposes of the transaction. In addition, the rule also applies to situations where, while the transaction is not intended to avoid total tax evasion, it is intended to achieve an artificially more favourable tax effect. The rule does not require the actual content of the transaction to be identified or the requalification of the transaction. The taxpayer's access to the mutual agreement procedure will be improved as the taxpayer will have the opportunity to address complaints to the tax authorities of both Contracting Parties. At present, only the tax authorities of their country of residence can be contacted, and if this does not accept the complaint, the taxpayer's opportunity to initiate a debate between the two countries is exhausted. As the changes listed apply, the possibilities for Estonian residents to circumvent the tax treatment of earned income as well as the possibilities for non-residents to use Estonia for tax evasion will be reduced. The Convention must be ratified in the Riigikogu because it amends the ratified tax treaties. The Convention shall enter into force on the Estonian tax treaties three months after the date of deposit of the instrument of ratification, but the application of the amendments to the Convention to the specific tax treaty shall depend on the date of the respective notifications by the Contracting Parties. In any event, this Convention shall apply to the taxes covered by the tax agreement to be covered only from the beginning of the calendar year. With this, a brief summary of today's subject is exhausted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U268	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U269	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, This convention, I understand, covers 58 double taxation treaties. The agreement with Russia has been signed in 2002, but it has not yet entered into force. How will this Convention technically apply to the agreement signed with Russia? How? You go to foreign law firms all over the place. Why don't you explain this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U270	Thank you. I am not sure that this agreement with Russia, which is not going to apply, is among those 58, because we are still talking about amending the agreements we have ratified.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U271	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U272	It is clearly stated here that, in the case of Estonia, such agreements are concluded with Morocco and Russia, which it covers. How it works technically, that's what I wanted to know. But these double taxation agreements have different effects on our economy as well. If these agreements with our major trading partners are, for example, an exemption method that has ever been achieved in the wake of major negotiations years ago, this method of exemption, I understand, is overwritten by this convention. If this overwrites, it is possible to choose between three options. Option A is when the set-off method is replaced in all cases, option B is the case for dividends. Which option will Estonia choose, and why? This has a direct impact on our economic relations, our trade.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U273	Thank you. I understand that it does. But we're talking more than 50 contracts here. I cannot answer the abstract question of which option is chosen. We still have to ask which particular agreement we are talking about. This Convention does not alter the content of these agreements in such a way that our bilateral agreements are somehow nullified.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U274	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I would like to ask the representative of the lead committee from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Dmitri Dmitriyev. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U275	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft, including on 22 October. The draft was presented to us by Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Tiina Hansson, Chief Specialist. When the convention is implemented, the possibilities for Estonian residents to circumvent the tax treatment of earned income as well as for non-residents to use Estonia for tax evasion, as the Minister said. We did not really have a major discussion in the Commission on the law on the ratification of the Convention. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to send the draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 6 November, to close the first reading and to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 20 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U276	Thank you. There are no questions. I will open negotiations, the representatives of the political groups may speak. No requests to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. Is there anything else the Minister would like to say? No, I don't. The commission's proposal was to conclude the first reading of the draft 88. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 20 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U277	We are getting to the last item on the agenda today. First reading of the draft Act 93 of the Government of the Republic of Estonia initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of China and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the prevention of double taxation and the ratification of the Agreement on Tax Avoidance and Prevention of Tax Fraud and the Protocol thereto. Minister of Finance Martin Helme, please waitress for the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U278	Dear Speaker! Dear members of the Riigikogu, don't all run away at once! This is indeed the draft Act on ratification of the Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Fraud concluded between the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and Estonia. Estonia concludes double taxation agreements to ensure the stability of the tax environment for both foreign entrepreneurs who invest in Estonia and Estonian entrepreneurs who expand their activities to foreign markets. The aim of tax treaties is to eliminate double international taxation that may arise from the combined effect of the laws of two countries. The Agreement will share tax rights between the Contracting Parties, prevent discriminatory taxation and prevent tax evasion. The agreement does not provide additional tax opportunities for countries, but limits the existing tax rights established by national law. The tax agreement applies to a person who is resident in Estonia or Hong Kong. The agreement between Estonia and Hong Kong was signed on 25 September including in Tallinn and is based on the Standard Agreement of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The main points of the agreement between Estonia and Hong Kong are as follows: The source country has limited tax rights on dividend income. The withholding tax ceiling is 10% of the gross dividend. A source State may not deduct tax on the dividend if the dividend is paid to a company resident in another State or jurisdiction, to a government, to a local government entity, to a central bank and to an investment fund. In the case of interest income, the withholding tax rate on interest paid to a resident of another country may not exceed 10% of the gross interest rate. In the income source country, there is no right to tax interest received by a company, government of another country or jurisdiction, local government, central bank or investment fund. As regards the taxation of royalties, the contract also provides for a split right of taxation, while in the source country the tax on royalties is capped at 5% of the total amount of the licence fee. Pension and other charges of this kind shall be taxed on the party making the pension payments. The Agreement between Estonia and Hong Kong provides for a comprehensive exchange of information on the income of persons and the obligation to exchange information is not limited to residents of the Contracting Parties. In short, that is all. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U279	Thank you. There are questions. Aivar Sõerd, first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U280	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, That same previous point, this big convention to prevent tax evasion, is this convention automatically applicable to this Chinese agreement, or will it have to come back to the Riigikogu after both sides of the Chinese agreement have passed all the procedures, so that this previous convention will apply, or will it happen automatically?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U281	Thank you. I will read out a small paragraph that I have just read: the agreement between Estonia and Hong Kong was signed on 25 September 2019 and is based on the OECD Standard Agreement. Perhaps, in fact, this already takes into account the convention discussed in the previous paragraph, this standard framework. This convention on the previous item will subsequently amend existing and concluded agreements. We have not yet concluded, put into effect or ratified this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U282	Thank you. No further questions. Next, I would like to ask Tiit Kala, member of the Monetary Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U283	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I would also like to thank the previous speaker for his thorough presentation of the draft. I report on the discussion in the Commission in the preparation of the first reading of the draft Act 93 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion and tax fraud and related protocol between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft, including on 22 October. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Tiina Hansson, Chief Specialist, presented the draft and answered questions from the members of the committee. The purpose of double taxation agreements is to encourage investment between the parties to the agreement. The agreement will provide investors with greater legal certainty in relation to the elements of the tax system covered by the agreement, as changes to the bilateral international agreement generally require more time than changes to national legislation. In order to achieve this objective, the agreement limits the income tax that the source country may impose on the income of residents of another country, ensures equal treatment of persons and eliminates possible double taxation. The obligation to exchange mutual information set out in the Agreement creates additional opportunities to prevent tax fraud. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to send the draft to the plenary session of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 6 November 2019, to close the first reading and to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 20 November at 5.15 p.m. More detailed issues and questions were not raised in the Commission. Tiit Kala was appointed rapporteur. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-06_U284	Thank you. There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to speak? There are no requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. Does the Minister of Finance have any wish to provide clarifications? Mr. Helme, would you like some? No, I don't. The commission proposed that the first reading of the draft 93 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 20 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.22 p.m.
