ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U1	Happy start of the new working week, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Monday session of the 3rd working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now everyone has an excellent opportunity to hand over drafts or enquiries. Please, the representative of the government, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U2	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today initiating a draft amending the VAT Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Secondly, the Government will submit a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to approve the State's consolidated report for the financial year 2018. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when this draft is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U3	Thank you. It seems that there is no further wish to pass on the drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted two drafts, which we are dealing with in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Next, we'll go to the presence check. Requesting presence check! There are 86 comms present, 15 missing. We have come to the approval of the agenda. I shall vote on the agenda for the third working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 85 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the agenda, no respondents and no abstentions, no two people took part. So the agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U4	Now we will go to the only item on today's Monday agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'll read you the procedure. First, the presentation of the representative of the initiator of the draft is 20 minutes, then the presentation of the representative of the commission, as well as up to 20 minutes. No more than two oral questions may be submitted to the rapporteurs. After that, negotiations will begin, where only the representatives of the political groups can speak. There will be five plus three minutes in the remote control, two minutes to speak. The rapporteur for this bill is Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U5	Deep breaths. Dear Riigikogu, I'm sorry I'm a few moments late! I was rushing, so I'm swinging, as you can hear, but it's not out of disrespect for you, it's out of urgent schedule on Monday. So I'm so sorry I'm late! We will then have on the agenda a draft law amending the Citizenship Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, 58 which has already been in discussion, as everyone knows, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and other committees, as well as in the institutions and institutions concerned. The purpose of the draft is to give the possibility to apply for citizenship in a different manner to a particular population group that has so far been in a different situation when applying for citizenship. Namely, the proposed regulation includes the possibility of applying for Estonian citizenship if it is born in Estonia or, immediately after birth, with children under 18 years of age who have settled permanently in Estonia with their permanent resident or parents. The condition is that one parent or grandparent lived in Estonia before 20 August 1991 and is of undefined citizenship and the other parent is a citizen of another country. We know that over the years we have had long discussions on how to reduce the number of stateless persons so as not to give one of our neighbouring countries the opportunity to promote their citizenship and thus to have a greater influence on Estonia's internal policies or find an excuse to intervene in Estonian affairs. As we know, historical examples of this exist. The Georgian war began in South Ossetia on the pretext of protecting Russian citizens. Abkhazia is essentially occupied by Russia, and with the same reason, or at least it was one of the reasons. We know that Russia has for some time been practicing an extremely aggressive policy of granting Russian citizenship in Eastern Ukraine. From this point of view, the government has made a pragmatic decision to allow young people born in Estonia, who have grown here and who are interested in our citizenship to acquire this citizenship in a lighter manner. It is always a question of how many people could be affected by the proposed change. The Ministry of the Interior has done the necessary calculations. This concerns a relatively marginal population group of around 1,500 people. And since we have also written down the so-called starting date, which is August 20, 1991, we see that this population group is not growing but shrinking. Decreasing for various reasons, both as a result of exit and simply as a result of citizenship. So if there has been an attempt to raise a discussion on the subject that this could jeopardise Estonia's current citizenship policy, there is nothing like it. Estonian citizenship policy is completely in place, still quite strict and excludes it, by the way, double citizenship, at least in formal law, because in fact we know that double citizenship is a problem in practice, with regard to both the east and the west. The Ministry of the Interior is currently seriously debating, discussing and wondering what practical solutions might be to the problem of double citizenship. I hope that during this Riigikogu, proposals and drafts will come up. So no earthquake in Estonian citizenship policy would result in a law, though it would give the child the opportunity, as has already been said, to become an Estonian citizen by naturalisation from the moment of birth, if parents or a parent raising the child alone, who is not considered by any state to be a citizen under the laws in force, so ask the child. I don't have much more to say in advance. I can say an even more precise number: as of 12 August 2019, 1523 children under the age of 18 were registered in the Population Information System and all of the following conditions are met: the child was born in Estonia, has a long-term resident's residence permit and can be both undefined and third-country nationals, one parent is a citizen of another country and the other has an undefined citizenship, who also has a long-term resident's residence permit, who lived in Estonia before 20 August 1991 or was born after that date, and both the parent and the child live permanently in Estonia. The question is, of course, which countries or language groups we are talking about. It is quite clear that, in our geopolitical and historical context, we are talking primarily about the Russian-speaking population and most prominently about people associated with the Russian Federation. Among those whose children, or who themselves belong to this group of applicants, are, above all, parents, 1393 citizens of the Russian Federation. The next largest group is made up of persons from Ukraine. So we are talking primarily about the company that has arrived in Estonia during the period of occupation and since then has remained in Estonia. Their children or, in some cases, their grandchildren fit among the 1523 individuals affected by this whole legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U6	Is the minister finished? We have...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U7	I think I'm done, yeah. I could read all kinds of explanatory notes here, but I think the honourable members of the Riigikogu are more interested in asking sharp questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U8	Thank you. Yes, indeed, there are quite a few questions for the Minister. First, please, in Taavi's garment!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Good answer! This clay island approach to citizenship policy, which started some 30 years ago, has been brought up again and again. But that in 2019 someone will come to the Riigikogu's remote control and say that we will give Estonian citizenship to as many as possible without exams, because otherwise we are in danger of the same danger that Georgia or Ukraine really could not have expected. At the beginning of your presentation, you said that a group that has been in different situations would automatically be granted citizenship by this law. I would argue that you were either mistaken or deliberately wrong, namely that there is no thing to prevent this particular group from taking the same exams that everyone else is taking to obtain citizenship by naturalisation. My question is: what prevents these young people from taking the test of knowledge of the Estonian language and the Estonian Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U10	Thank you. The question is, as always, imprecise, arbitrary interpretation of facts and incriminating. There's nothing to stop them from taking these exams, and they're doing them. If you are a little into the coalition agreement Consequently, since everyone in Estonia has the obligation to have comprehensive school education, these exams are also clearly passed and these exams are taken into account in the acquisition of citizenship. As for the fact that there is some clay island approach here, I do not want to disparage Edgar Savisaar in any way, but I want to say that there is no resemblance. What was discussed at the beginning of the 90s was the null variant of citizenship, i.e. automatically declaring all Estonian residents as Estonian citizens. Right now, we're not talking about a zero option. We are talking about children born and raised in Estonia, children or grandchildren of people who lived here permanently as early as 20 August 1991. So we are talking about 1523 people, and I think that everyone has probably learned so much arithmetic at school, that they understand that 300,000 does not equal 1523.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U11	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U12	Thank you. Mr. Helme, I don't believe your numbers. You basically offer children a null variant of citizenship. And the fact that there is no resemblance here is simply a lie. I don't think you're even gonna be honest with the numbers. Tell me why this fundamental advantage is needed to free these people from citizenship! Actually, you're doing it. The coalition agreement is not part of the law. If the law is passed, it's the way it is in this law. What is this principled view in your view that it is Russian immigrants who should be granted citizenship by simplified procedures and not by Estonian immigrants? Where's the logic? The logic of the Centre Party is understandable, but how do you explain it? You would have called it betrayal in the old days.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U13	I am very sorry that the honourable Member did not listen to my answer to the previous question. He'd understand perfectly well that 300,000 doesn't equal 1523. These data aren't, by the way, my data, these are data from the Police and Border Guard Board, these are data from our population office. These are data that have been transmitted by our competent institutions, which have also been led by the Reform Party during its term of office. So if we're talking about some false information that officials are reporting to politicians, they've probably been reporting them all along. But I don't really want to believe it. Now, once again, no one has lost their comprehensive school finals. Such a proposal has come, but I can tell you that many groups do not support this proposal. So it is not a matter of prematurely talking about the fact that something has already been lost, that it is anticipating events. And once again: comprehensive school, comprehensive school education is compulsory for everyone in Estonia. This is not about immigrants or non-immigrants. In fact, I think it is not very sweet for non-Ethnic Estonians in this Chamber to hear that one of the political leaders of the group calls them Russian immigrants. I apologize to them for your use of words. As for why we're giving an advantage to one group, for a very simple reason. This group has been linked to Estonia for several generations. And since these people have been associated with Estonia for several generations, on the basis of their request, on the basis of their application, not automatically, not by order, not as a nullity, we allow them to apply for citizenship. Understand: apply!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U14	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U15	Thank you. I'll pick up where you finished. You said that the reason why this group has been elected is because they have been related to Estonia for several generations. This is certainly correct, and I, in general, consider the steps in this direction to be very sensible. But the question in this context is, in comparison to another draft law amending the Citizenship Act, which will soon be discussed in the Riigikogu. In fact, you have stated in this draft that a child who is a citizen of the Russian Federation, who has one parent with a grey passport, can apply for Estonian citizenship without examination, but one whose parents are both nationals of a third country cannot. What is this substantive reason for distinguishing between children from citizens of the Russian Federation in the Republic of Estonia, depending on the nationality of their parents?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U16	The short answer is that this is the reason that some are stateless and others are not stateless. Some have chosen to benefit from the citizenship of another country and if they now want to acquire Estonian citizenship, it is clear that they must give up the citizenship of the Russian Federation. We know that this is not a very easy process. We also know that we are not in a position to check that they have given up this citizenship or that they have not given up that citizenship. We have taken a very clear view of the fact that, today, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we also discussed this issue with the delegates, that allowing double citizenship in the very fragile demographic, geographical and historical situation of the Republic of Estonia essentially means a long step towards Estonia's identity, Estonia's sovereignty and the eradication of Estonia's national home as Estonians. We therefore believe that citizens of the Russian Federation must be treated on a somewhat different basis from stateless persons.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U17	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U18	Thank you. You're trying to take this talk somewhere else, but I'd still like to talk about the bill that's been filed. The fact that Estonian citizenship is granted to Russian citizens without requiring knowledge of the Estonian language is a fundamental change in Estonian citizenship policy. That's it! And no one is likely to have any serious doubts about the soul, this is the first step in the old plan of the Centre Party, which has already been referred to today, to go to the nullity of citizenship, according to which Estonian citizenship is really granted to everyone who lives on the territory of Estonia. According to this draft, you will waive the requirement for an Estonian language examination. I read the text of this bill and I see that the only thing that will allow these minors to be granted citizenship in the future is the request. Why do you waive the requirement to know the Estonian language as a basis for granting Estonian citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U19	Repeating is the mother of wisdom. As I said, I have already said this twice, basic education is compulsory in the Republic of Estonia. Basic education is accompanied by an examination of Estonian language and constitutional knowledge. This government makes them mandatory. This is the next step, and there's no mention of a null option. Zero, as you know, is synonymous with infinity. However, we are dealing with a complete final number of people affected by this law. If you have a different understanding, then our concepts of zero, infinity, and of the people affected by this particular law are fundamentally different.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U20	Thank you. Riina Sikkut.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U21	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! In reply to Mr Ossinovski, you described how we treat people with and without nationality of the Russian Federation differently. Yeah, we're gonna do it, we're gonna treat these adults differently. The question is why we treat their children differently, those 1523 children. And secondly, if other children are allowed to have double citizenship and have to give up one citizenship when they are 18 years old, why are we treating them differently again in 1523? Thirdly, I will return to the Question Time last week, where I asked you the same question, but you have not actually been able to answer the question. Ülle Madise described the situations where people's trust in the country has been lost, where they are disappointed in the country, when they were on the board last Tuesday, because they see the country as a bureaucratic obstacle. These are the situations in which we make a person walk from door to door, walk from door to door, move one piece of paper, but in fact he cannot solve his problem. This is a so-called Kafka situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U22	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U23	Why do we now put these 1523 children in such a position that we demand them to abandon the citizenship of the Russian Federation, knowing that they will not be able to do so and prove to the Estonian state that...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U24	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U25	Please explain in Question Time you failed to do what is possible...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U26	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U27	... these 1523 children acquire Estonian citizenship before they reach the age of 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U29	Thank you. You had, I don't know, at least five questions, so I don't think you should be given another question in accordance with the rules of procedure and home. But you're asking why we treat these children differently. For a very simple reason: a child whose parent is of another nationality shall automatically be considered to be a national of that State. If the child's parents are Russian citizens, the child is also a Russian citizen. That's the difference. This is different for non-nationals. Very simple! [[A comment from the floor.]] Well, are we gonna argue now, and everyone's gonna be here asking questions outside of the fair? I don't understand. In the old days, the Riigikogu was a bit different.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U30	I would remind honourable members of the Riigikogu that we have been given one minute to ask a question. Mrs. Sikkut's question lasted almost two minutes. Please don't abuse all of our time! When this much time passes, you have to start thinking about shutting down the microphone when the time is up. But for now, please, the opportunity to ask a question is in Vilja Toomas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U31	Thank you. Hey, Mr. Helme! I don't understand why you're fooling us all the time. We are taking up the text of the draft law, it states in very clear words: for a minor permanent resident of Estonia or a minor born in Estonia, his or her parent can apply for Estonian citizenship. Okay, so it's a stateless parent, and you know it yourself, all those other terms. But the question is, you're always telling us about some kind of middle school graduation. In theory, you can also apply for Estonian citizenship for a three-year-old or three-month-old child, and he does not even have to speak yet, not to mention that he has to speak Estonian. Why are you fooling us? Tell me where it says that in the event of this change you must continue to make a citizenship status and know the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U32	Don't get all emotional on me! But thank you for the question. The question was very simple: the child whose parent is a national of some kind is also a national of that country. We are dealing with many citizens of the Russian Federation. I have only recently signed an application for the approval of the government to grant Estonian citizenship to a number of people who have so far been nationals of the Russian Federation, plus their minors. This means that if you, Vilja Toomas, are currently a citizen of the Russian Federation and apply for Estonian citizenship and receive Estonian citizenship, your minor children will also be granted Estonian citizenship with you. If they become adults and say that vuih, Estonian citizenship, fu na vas, they have the right to apply for Russian citizenship or American citizenship or Latvian citizenship or any fifth nationality. That's the explanation for you. But whether there is one parent or two parents, we do not know that because we have very many single mothers, single parents. We have couples who do not matter what the second party of the couple's nationality is. Legally, this is a bit more complicated than you're trying to put forward emotionally here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U33	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, On the basis of the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal, it can be assumed with 95% probability that these 1523 minors speak Russian at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U35	I can't hear you. I'm sorry, could you speak up a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U36	The draft allows minors born in Estonia to apply for Estonian citizenship as they wish. However, the wish of the citizens of the Republic of Estonia so far is that Estonian citizens speak Estonian and know the constitutional order of Estonia. In the week before last, the Coalition rejected the Reform Party's draft for the transition to Estonian-language education, and this is because the Republic of Estonia is currently unable to teach or all Estonian residents to study in Estonian. How can you be sure that these 1523 minors can speak Estonian and understand the life of Estonia when they become adults? How dare you delegate to Estonian schools the adoption of the exams necessary to gain Estonian citizenship if they are unable to teach in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U37	Well, remembering your slogan, you can count on it. Look, we're much more pragmatic than the Reform Party ambassadors, who imagine that we're gonna blow up a starter gun, and everything is gonna be in Estonian, all school education and all kindergartens and crèches. I do not remember if I have already given this example in this hall that I have been told that I do not put my hand on the Bible, I do not know whether it is true, Katri Raik comes from there, he may know better, that there are 14 children's institutions in Narva, I do not know whether the kindergarten or any other kindergarten institution, one of which is capable of speaking and ready to speak Estonian, the rest is all in Russian. I am sure, of course, that the members of the Riigikogu are ready to go to kindergarten and school teachers in Narva to do a five-year-old there in four years and to transfer everything to the Estonian language, but we all know that this is not real. In fact, we must begin by preparing teachers, that we have the teaching materials, that we have the corresponding teaching methods. Then we go step by step from younger kindergartens, and from parents to middle school children, to Estonian. We are now entering a phase where we want to introduce parallel learning into Russian schools. This means that in parallel, Estonian-language teachers and Russian-language teachers will teach in the class so that children can move to the Estonian language step by step in comparison with the two languages. Yes, you can be sure, Estonia will be completely Estonian-speaking through the education system, but not by snapping on 1 September 2020. It's unrealistic, it's just a populist, propaganda information operation. There is no point in dealing with such foolishness.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U38	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U39	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said here that Estonian citizenship policy has so far been very strict and must continue to be strict. Nevertheless, you are now taking an unprecedented step and linking the acquisition of citizenship with the examination of the Estonian language and other citizenship. You're indirectly linking it to basic education, that it's like it's been given with it. However, not everyone may get their basic education, and there are other problems here. I do not understand why the acquisition of citizenship must be tied away from the examination requirement. Because the most important thing, after all, is the spirit that a person who has acquired citizenship will bear. This spirit is passed on for years and decades, and a person who has received Estonian citizenship may not be at all pro-minded of our nation state. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U40	Why are we doing this? That is why we are saying that we have one very important point in the coalition agreement: it is achieving a coherent society. The less we have partitions, the less we have differentiation, the less we have groups that we push away from Estonia, the more cohesive society is. And once again: of course, we cannot be sure of anyone that they are Estonian-minded, nor can we be sure of Estonians that they are Estonian-minded. The people who are disappointed in Estonia are very disappointed in this political system, in this economic situation, very much. About 100,000 people have left Estonia because they are disappointed because they are not satisfied with where Estonia has come from. The so-called Estonian success story has not reached them. And that is one reason: we want people to live as coherent as possible in Estonia. And we're not releasing anyone from anything. There are also implementing acts, there are implementing methods. And they're all coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U41	Raimond Kaljurand. Rockies, I'm sorry! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U42	That's all right, Mr. Chairman, thank you. It happens that some name gets confused. Good Minister! I have a question for you. Quite an interesting pattern is developing for the current government. I see that the Central Party, which promised a 100-euro pension increase, will receive a 7-euro pension increase and promised 1% funding for R &amp; D, but some more are given. As you know, your coalition partner promised citizenship to everyone who lived here before August 20, 1991. So, what's it like now? Is it that this bill is only the first step and you are coming out with one of the most ambitious drafts that will still fulfil this promise, or have you succeeded in putting Jüri Ratas in a position where he must forget the important election promises of some of his parties to keep this great government with you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U43	Thank you for your question. And thank you for calling this government great! I totally agree with you, this is a great government. It's a government over the long run where ministers try to rule, run the country, not tick on the hard-working backs of officials. That's why it's a great government. As far as the null option is concerned, the null option has not been written into the coalition agreement, and I do not believe that we are going to rewrite the coalition agreement. Therefore, the null variant, which the Reform Party seems to miss so much, does not exist and will not come. As far as compliance with promises is concerned, the promises will be fulfilled... Look, it's a beautiful proverb, "Let it be harder to afford than to fill." And the current government is doing what can be done. He raises pensions exactly as much as the wallet allows, raises salaries exactly as the wallet allows, makes investments just as much as the wallet allows, but he figures out more opportunities to do more. You know what British, English statesman and philosopher Francis Bacon have said? He has said very golden words: "A wise man can create more opportunities than he can find. ' And this government can create more opportunities than it could find.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U44	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U45	Yeah, it's awesome that we promise 100, get seven! And we write down in the coalition agreement that we have to take the exams, but we actually give citizenship, so we don't have to take the exams or worry about whether or not we can speak the official language. Today we have heard a great many reasons why Estonian cannot be taught throughout Estonia. We saw the kind of attitude that, uh, let's just give it up. You also suggested that Estonian citizenship should be granted automatically to all regardless of the language of the state. This particular draft contains three points in the fourth paragraph. I think you can read this forward and backwards several times during this discussion, and you will see that there is no word of the exams. On the basis of which you claim that children who, according to this bill, receive automatically, without language skills and only after submitting an application for citizenship should start again after a test in order to have citizenship as if they were re-acquired? Where does that even come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U46	If you read the coalition agreement, you'll find that point there. And that's what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying! [[A comment from the floor.]] Excuse me? Yeah, but they have to go to school. You don't have to? As far as I know, they do. You think you've found my weakness, but you haven't found my weakness. [[Comments from the floor.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U47	Please don't talk about it!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U48	I understand the discipline in this room is completely gone. The current opposition is more like Novgorod waterches than the opposition has ever been before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U49	Thank you. Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U50	Thank you. Good waitress! You yourself have said this: 'In the case of the people of the pass, citizenship is intended to be given by force to the occupation colonists who have demonstrated their attitude towards the Estonian state and Estonians by not trying to learn the Estonian language in 25 years and not wanting to take the citizenship exam. The bike wishes to reward citizens who have shown that they are not loyal to Estonia. ' Yet today you are defending here before us a bill that clearly shows that citizenship can be obtained even without a citizenship exam, without a knowledge of the language. Hence my question: will you deceive your constituents and take back your previous words, or will the Centre Party still have its will and, as you say, the Prime Minister rewards voters with nationality?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U51	Very thorough preparation! How wonderful it is that my old articles are being searched for! Hence, good articles are worth reading and quoting. But as for what I've said now, yes, I think so. But once again, the numbers set things up, and that number is 1523. The Estonian people, by the way, are very generous people. The Estonian people are towards the 1523 people who were born in Estonia, who have attended school in Estonia and who, in the context of the same school education in Estonia, have acquired a certain degree of proficiency in the Estonian language, certainly very generous, despite the poor level of teaching the Estonian language. And don't worry about our constituents, they say it's right, it should have been done a long time ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U52	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U53	Thank you. Listening to you reminds me of one of your earlier appearances when you said there was no criminal case against Marti Kuusik and he's being investigated for nothing. You claimed it as Minister of the Interior. But now you're saying that somewhere it's regulated in a different way than the law says. That somewhere, some sort of thing, a coalition agreement or something... The law says that you don't need a citizenship or language examination, your bill says that, but you say that somebody else has to look at something and that you're always looking for more opportunities than they are. But my question is this and repeats the first: what difference do you think there is between those people who came here during the Russian era, you like to say 'Soviet time', 'I don't say 'parasitising cockroaches', so please don't apologize for me, but apologize for that phrase of yours, and for those who came here later? Why was the null option for the citizenship of the Centre Party chosen, and why in the case of children? Why? Why not with everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U54	Well, I'm not going to do this Marti Kuusik case in detail right now. I didn't want to get involved. I have not interfered with this in order not to give you any reason to express any mistrust or any such fine circus, but I am aware of what is going on there, and I know that there is no real evidence of his violence. And in order to maintain a certain face on this matter, it has been decided that a criminal case will be taken. Come on, do what you got to do! These criminal cases have collapsed before, for example, the criminal case of the Port of Tallinn begins again in essence. Estonia is such a great rule of law, so we believe and hope that it is still the rule of law when speaking about Kuusik in this case. We believe in the best of will that everything is fine. But as far as citizenship is concerned, I don't know how many times I have to repeat that there is no mention of any nullity. The zero option would be to say that, without any conditions to everyone, regardless of their request, friends, from 1 October 2019 you are all automatically Estonian citizens. Now that's option zero, that's option zero! If I showed this zero to you, you'd say again that it's some sort of white domination racist sign, and that's why I'm not showing this zero to you. But it's the null option. Now the option we are talking about in this law is to give an advantage to a certain, very narrow group of young people. Indeed, giving an advantage! Why this group? Because I have already said that this group has shown on its parents, on its own, that they are related to Estonia, that they are permanent residents of Estonia, that they are born here, that they have grown here and that most of them are probably able to speak Estonian to some extent. In this case, it seems to disturb you that their Estonian language is not on an adequate level. Yeah, I'm sure it could always be better. In our own case, language skills may sometimes leave a wish, we use too many foreign words. But let's grab the tail and try to fix ourselves. However, when it comes to where you take that they have to do something else, we take the fact that one law now concerns a group of people and their chances of obtaining citizenship, and another law, which concerns school education and exams there, speaks of the Estonian language examination being equated with the final exam of basic school and the examination of the knowledge of citizenship law with the examinations required for applying for citizenship. Yes, it does not appear in the Citizenship Act, but it does not mean that it is not in another law, it does not come and it is not implemented. And there is no contradiction here. Different laws deal with different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U55	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U56	Thank you. I'd like to start by helping you. Indeed, this question has been asked many times. Indeed, this bill and Estonian citizenship policy generally do not require infants to speak Estonian and to know the Estonian Constitution. I think it's completely understandable in itself. And it is true that no one takes citizenship away from people who receive Estonian citizenship as a child without taking the exams, even if some of them will not learn the Estonian language in the future. This situation is exactly the same and analogous to the law that was once adopted in relation to the children of non-citizens, which is completely reasonable and sound. I'm just gonna ask you my question again. I'm not quite sure if you've figured out who you're talking about, and I'm sorry I'm getting worse. You said that the draft Social Democrats, which gives the right to citizenship automatically or without examination by a child of two citizens of the Russian Federation, are not suitable because these children are automatically citizens of the Russian Federation. I ask which country's citizens are 91% of the 1521 children targeted by this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U57	Sorry, I missed the question. I stayed here to read my paper, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U58	Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U59	I'll ask you again. Of the 1521 children who are listed in your explanatory memorandum, an apology, of 1523 children under the age of 18, 91%, or 1393 children are citizens of which country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U60	Most of all, as has been said, there are citizens of the Russian Federation. The next largest group consists of 32 and 32 persons of Ukrainian nationality and undefined nationality.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U61	Thank you. Maria Jufereva-Sukratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U62	Skuratovski! Thank you. My question is this: does the adoption and implementation of this law mean, at the same time, that gray passports will no longer be issued in Estonia, or is the situation not so rosy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U63	No, that is not what this means, and this law does not deal with this area either. The issue of documents is something else. If people have not applied for Estonian citizenship and if people do not receive Estonian citizenship at birth, it is their choice whether to choose another country's citizenship or remain stateless persons. If they are permanent residents of Estonia, the rules will extend to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U64	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U65	Thank you. Citizenship issues are governed by the Citizenship Act. This is the bill we are discussing here and what you want to change. Any kind of narrating references to your coalition agreement, and the rest of it's definitely a nice addition, but they're not by law. You have repeatedly referred here or tried to create the impression that the need to know the Estonian language at the level of the law still persists. Would you please refer in this particular draft to a point that links the sharing of citizenship to the language of citizenship? And precautionaryly, if you referred to implementing acts in advance, the implementing acts do indeed set out the three requirements that the application must meet, the conditions that must be fulfilled in order for citizenship to be shared in accordance with your proposal. These are first the application, second the photo and third the document proving that the parent or grandparent of the minor lived in Estonia as of 20 August 1991. There are no language requirements here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U66	Then I quote you. I do not know whether this is now the explanatory memorandum that has been given to you, but in any case I have one supporting paper here that says: 'The amendments to the draft are not individually coordinated; they have been proposed in addition to the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act submitted by the Minister of Education and Research. " These are the same proposals that concern the knowledge of the Estonian language and the Constitution. Yes, in this law, I agree with them not, but the coalition agreement is and... Sorry, sorry, heart attack! But this government has been in office for five months, and in the meantime there was a summer that slowed down, among other things, the Riigikogu was resting. So don't worry, these things will reach you, too, and you will be able to ask me or the Minister of Education and Research, in the same context, some serious questions. Don't worry, all in good time! Let's not get ahead of ourselves!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U67	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U68	Thank you. The last question goes on. If the parents have paid 13 euros of state fees, completed the necessary applications and papers, wishing to obtain Estonian citizenship for their minor child, please describe how this is procedurally possible before the child is 18 years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U69	Look, I'm an Estonian citizen at birth, and I didn't have to apply for citizenship. I must therefore admit that I do not know this procedure so precisely. But I'm very convinced that if these people go to the appropriate office of the Police and Border Guard Board, they'll be supervised there and they'll get all their stuff done nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U70	Thank you. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U71	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. I would first of all like to say, because you mentioned my name, you would have to go back to Narva's question. I have asked about this from Narva School of Education, and I have no reason to doubt that they are telling the truth, saying that from this autumn, language immersion training takes place in 11 pre-school children's institutions, kindergartens, and 44 groups. I mean, the story that only one kindergarten is taught under the immersion program is wrong. That is what Mr Stalnukhin said very convincingly in this very chair, unfortunately he is not here today. Once again, 11 pre-school facilities, 44 groups. And you can't open a group like this if you don't have a qualified teacher, which means you have teachers. So, unfortunately, this is misinformation. Of course we can want better teachers and so on, but that's the situation. My question is this: I hope to be able to ask for a second chance, because I have commented on your answer, I am trying to be very graphic. If I had a minor child with you, you are not a citizen, I am a Russian citizen, and if I gave up Russian citizenship and did an Estonian language exam at B1, then I could take my child - our common child - into Estonian citizenship. But if I were to remain a Russian citizen...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U72	Quick question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U73	... then studying the laws of the Russian Federation and speaking also to officials under your authority, no one can give any example of how a child can give up his or her citizenship before he or she turns 18. This child would remain a Russian citizen until he was 18. Of course, he learns Estonian at school.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U74	Please! Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U75	When I gave this example, I said, by the way, that I was not responsible for whether this was exactly the case, and that I had been told that. Consequently, the information provided to me has been incomplete. I do not use the words 'false' and 'false' and 'false' lightly, as the opposition loves to use. Consequently, this information has been incomplete, so it has not been true. And if it's the way you say it is, the nicer it is. It's nicer that there's so much Estonian being taught there. However, as far as citizenship is concerned, there is also the concept of 'conditional citizenship'. Conditional citizenship means that if the Republic of Estonia grants citizenship to someone, if that person has fulfilled all the relevant requirements but is in the citizenship of another country, his or her Estonian citizenship will not be valid until he or she has proved that the citizenship of another country has been abandoned. That is the question, and that is the question with regard to children. If, in this case, as a Russian citizen, I may be a citizen of the Republic of Russia on the proof that you are indeed exempt from the citizenship of the Russian Federation, and have obtained the Estonian citizenship granted to you conditionally, then your child, a minor child, will become an Estonian citizen with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U76	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, You said that education in Estonian cannot go sharply, but must go step by step. You can only agree to this, but it was the Estonian-language education transition that was planned by the Reform Party's draft. You simply did not familiarise yourself with this and you are in vain to accuse this draft of propaganda in an information operation, in vain to brag with the entire Estonian people in the speech chair of the Riigikogu, as Eiki Nestor has said and reminded President Kaljulaid. You said that there are 14 schools in Narva where only one is taught in Estonian. Where do you think these 1523 children should be educated? Will they even be able to acquire the Estonian language and learn the constitutional order of Estonia? Do you think that in order to gain Estonian citizenship, you need to know Estonian at all or the Estonian Constitution? This bill and the Estonian education system cannot guarantee it. But do you personally think this is right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U78	Look, I didn't think to highlight their geographical location for their 1523 children and young people: how many of them are in Narva, how many are in Sillamäe, how many are in Tallinn. Assuming that Tallinn is many times bigger in terms of the Russian-speaking population than any other place in Estonia, most or most of these children are probably in Tallinn. The possibilities for studying, practicing and using the Estonian language in Tallinn are very broad, in essence unlimited. As far as school education is concerned, whether or not I have studied your bill, you will not know, you can, of course, assume that. But what I would say is that it is not conceivable to have the collective redemption that this bill proposes that, on a certain date, only one language should be used. What does that really mean? This essentially means the emergence of mixed language schools, because much of the parents of Russian-speaking children then, of course, try to plant their children in schools other than the Russian-speaking ones, where the education provided in Estonian is quite clearly incomplete and does not correspond to the level of education already available in Estonian-language schools and provided by Estonian-language teachers. This means, in essence, a drop in the level of education in Estonian-language schools, the emergence of classroom sets that are uneven from both linguistic level and attitude, and it simply does not make sense. My opinion is that this draft does not make sense, and I believe that I have the right in a democratic country to believe that it does not make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U79	Thank you. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U80	Dear Minister, First of all, a comment. I noticed that in many cases you are trying nervously to distance this bill from the name of the null variant. Well, you can estimate whatever you want, but basically we can call this bill the null option for children, for that is the null option, because the exams are no longer required by this bill and that is the null option. But what I wanted to ask you is that on a number of occasions you talk about law and coalition. I get the impression they don't make much difference to you. Would you mind telling me what's the difference between these two things?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U81	You see, the bill is still being presented by the government on the basis of the coalition agreement, and that is why the overlap is greater than it may seem. Secondly, the government makes different legislative proposals to solve different problems. One is talking about giving citizenship to a certain group of people, in this case these children. By the way, as regards the zero option for these children, do you really think that there are only 1523 children in Estonia or that there were many children in Russian? There's still a lot more of them. We are still talking about the size of 100,000 Russian citizens in Estonia, and they also have children, probably thousands of children. We are talking about the fact that we currently have some 65,000 stateless persons, far from all of whom do not qualify under the parameters we are talking about in this case, and by far not all intend to make use of the possibility provided for or to be done by this bill. And we have over 100,000 Russian-speaking Estonian citizens, no, somewhere in this order of magnitude, these numbers remain, I don't know exactly how to tell them all, but somewhere they are divided, where there is no question at all. In whom, by the way, their children or future children are already Estonian citizens at birth. So it's all much more complicated. And now if you're saying that we're going to do some kind of null option to somebody, well, we're not going to do any null option. On the contrary, I would even dare to say that if we come up with this second bill that takes the exam of Estonian language and citizenship or knowledge of the Constitution as the final exams of basic school, we, on the contrary, have even set a threshold for these young people that did not exist so far. So don't look at things with that evil opositionary look, look at them with a little national and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! You're obviously uncomfortable, especially at the beginning, and I'm not really surprised. This is because, when you were in opposition, you would have considered the same bill to be almost Satan, without using such a word. And it is not surprising to me that there are only two representatives of the EKRE and one representative of the Fatherland in the hall. Apparently, they too are actually ashamed of this bill. What really bothers me is that you have repeatedly referred to a coalition agreement that has no legal meaning whatsoever. Any kind of legal meaning! If perhaps what you have referred to in terms of content were included in today's draft, perhaps there would be much less discussion and opposition. In this case, is it not a major defect and would it not be reasonable to withdraw this draft and to make the necessary improvements to it? Perhaps the debate in this Chamber would then be much more meaningful and rational? And when will the next concessions in citizenship policy be expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U83	Thank you. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U84	Come on, come on, come on, come on, All governments are guided by the Coalition Treaty in their actions. All the drafts that will be submitted will come from the ground of the coalition agreement, so in this sense it is not an insignificant document. Although, of course, from the point of view of this Chamber and from the point of view of the functioning of the State, it does not have any legal competence, I fully agree with that. As for the fact that I feel uncomfortable, I don't feel uncomfortable at all, I feel completely comfortable. Of course, I'd prefer I had a cup of coffee next door, so I could have a sip of coffee, but I don't have one right now. I'll bring my cup sometime. So I don't feel uncomfortable at all. And as for now that you stubbornly call it null, once again... Do you know where 'zero' comes from? Zero comes from old India, Sanskrit says 'zero' sunya, nothing, infinity. The null option would mean giving infinite Estonian citizenship to all those who lay their feet in Estonia, and this bill does not allow anyone to do so. As regards now whether this is the first compromise and how many of these concessions will come, we are referring again to the coalition agreement: there will be no such concessions in the coalition agreement, so there will be no more.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U85	Thank you. Unfortunately, the minister does not get in this hall with a cup of coffee, which is prohibited by our rules. But next thing you know, there's a chance to ask for Heidy Purgal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mart Helme, Could you please explain the following? If, according to this draft, citizenship can be obtained without passing the exam and you say here today that the exams must still be passed, and tomorrow, in this Chamber, the amendment to the basic school and upper secondary school law, which is all about losing the exams, will come to the first reading, which bill is the truth?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U87	The truth is that the bill that comes here tomorrow has not yet been drafted into law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U88	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! From your presentation and, in fact, from the answers to some questions, it still remains that you continue to regard the Russian people living here in Estonia as a threat to the national security of Estonia. I ask you, as Minister of the Interior: who are more dangerous to the security of the Estonian state, are the Russians living here or the radicalised young people of your own party, who are attending some kind of weapons training and waving on the Internet with these weapons like some al-Qaeda terrorists? Which are more dangerous to Estonia's security, are these connections or are the Russian people living here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U90	I would say that the stupid and hysterical people are the most dangerous to Estonia's security.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U91	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U92	Thank you. Dear Minister, We are working on an amendment to the Citizenship Act here today, and we will also be working on an amendment to the Citizenship Act tomorrow, and you have also repeatedly referred to tomorrow's draft. I would remind you that your party associates have sent a letter to the Committee on Culture about tomorrow's draft, saying: 'We believe that this is a very regrettable and extremely dangerous and fatal bill for Estonia, which must under no circumstances be taken forward. ' And my question is whether your party will support the Citizenship Act and the amendment to the PGS tomorrow for the first reading, or whether your party will not support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U93	There are three drafts concerning these citizenships: one is the draft government we are talking about, one is the draft Social Democrats and one is the draft reform party. What kind of... [[A voice from the hall.]] Oh, basic school law, yeah, yeah. Yes, I have already answered a similar question that what will be discussed tomorrow is not yet legalised. Therefore, references to the disappearance of basic school exams are not correct. The Riigikogu is in order to supplement the draft laws, introduce them or vote them out of the procedure. You know very well what chances you have.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U94	Thank you. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U95	Thank you. I still want to ask you about this coalition agreement. Jüri Ratas, who is the Prime Minister of this government, has made it clear that what was written in the coalition agreement is not the only thing, the only changes to the law that the government will come up with. So it's not quite the case that only what's in the coalition agreement is valid. The Prime Minister has promised that there will be changes. Who do I believe then: if you say that everything is in the coalition agreement and nothing more will come, or the Prime Minister who has said that it is just some sort of document? In order to put an end to these disputes, and so that you do not refer so closely all the time, as if we were to follow the coalition agreement in our activities, on what day and at what time has Riigikogu voted on the coalition agreement as a draft law that we are always referring to and sticking to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U96	Once again, it seems that we still have to come back to this proverb that'repeating is the mother of wisdom'. I have not said that the coalition agreement is a document that is mandatory for the whole country. What I have said here at least twice is that all the draft laws developed by the government are based, to a greater or lesser extent, on a coalition agreement. If, in this case, the coalition agreement has agreed to simplify the grant of citizenship for 1523 persons who are not Estonians of ethnic origin and who are not Estonian citizens, this coalition agreement is the result of this specific draft law. I can tell you that there is more than one draft based on the coalition agreement that we are going to deal with in this Chamber. So from this point of view, the Coalition Treaty is a document that is just like the foundation on which higher floors are already being built.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U97	Thank you. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U98	Thank you. Good Mart! A year ago, you enjoyed the Reform Party's draft on the transition to Estonian-language learning. Now you're banishing it in the ground and saying it's unrealistic, it can't be executed, and it's a stupid bill. A year ago, you once again cursed the bottom of the country of Jüri Ratas for wanting to share citizenship without a language requirement and with a grey passport and for Russian citizens and for whom else. Now you're in the opposite position here, you think it's not a security risk, and everything's in the best shape, and that's what the coalition agreement says. I want to ask you, Mart, when did you lie? Did you lie a year ago, or are you lying now, or are you lying all the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U99	Thank you, good Valdo! You see, a person learns while he lives. And it's never too late to get smarter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U100	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. You advised us to look to the future more optimisticly and be cheerful in this Chamber as well. You try to try, but it's very complicated, because juggling with these different laws and defending one law with another, when no law has yet been passed, seems like such a pretty scary trick. But please tell me if you know a little more now than we can imagine in this Chamber. You referred to the possible wish of the Minister of Education and Research to abolish the final exams of basic school, which are not yet legalised. I got the impression from you that you have a clear plan to sink it, and that is why you are so boldly defending today's law. Or have we misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U102	I have no plan, I am not a member of the Riigikogu, I cannot sink anything here. That's what the Riigikogu is for, that's what Riigikogu committees are for, to discuss drafts, to supplement drafts, to vote down drafts, to postpone them, to replace them. So my assessment that it has not yet been adopted, what will be dealt with here tomorrow in the framework of the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, is based on it. Nor has the bill we are talking about been adopted. And I do not rule out any additions, amendments and other and third readings. After all, most of us have been here in the Riigikogu before, and we know that this process can sometimes be very long and very complicated. I mean, there are plenty of bills that can't even be legal. So, in this sense, I do not rush ahead of events and do not attempt to give the impression that I, as a member of the Riigikogu, could at this point predict the future and fate of one or another or of the third draft law. I'm certainly not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U103	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U104	Thank you. I will ask my question again, however, because you did not answer my question. I asked what your party's position would be on the amendment of the PGS and citizenship law that will come to the proceedings tomorrow. The government has sent this draft to the Riigikogu, you are the chairman of the government department, and at the same time your partymates are sending a letter to the Committee on Culture saying that it is an extremely dangerous draft that should not be adopted under any circumstances. So I think I have a fully justified question: what is your party's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U105	The position of our party is that, in this form, we do not support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U106	Thank you. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U107	Thank you. Interesting discussion. It seems to me that the face of the government is starting to hatch from here too, whether it is now such a government of nullities or such a government of voluntary choices. You also claim not to demolish the pension system, but to become voluntary. As a result of today's discussion, I have still not fully understood whether the citizenship examination and the language examination, as the draft states, are no longer compulsory or will they also become voluntary?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U108	Fantasy, of course, has no boundaries. We've already seen that. I remember reading all kinds of science fiction books when I was young, and you see, it turns out that today I myself live to a great extent in the science fiction described at the time. Fantasy has no bounds. The second pension pillar and this bill and the drafts that are still planned are linked, contrasted, compared, of course, but this is not a very productive activity. I have already repeated so many times everything that you touched on with your question, and I can, of course, repeat that there is no mention of any nullity here. We are talking about a very small number of young people born, raised in Estonia, mostly speaking Estonian. What we are talking about is that we have an agreement in the coalition agreement on the exams that you so badly want everyone to take. I've told you all this so many times that I've worn my mouth off, I don't know if I still have a mouth or not, or if I just have a hole in the middle of my face. I hope that it has, in principle, proved to be understandable that this is not the way you are stubbornly trying to present in the opposition: that the exams are lost, citizenship is the null option, everyone whose sea has washed up ashore in Estonia receives Estonian citizenship, the last one as a salary and a raven. It's not like that. Every last salary and raven washed up on the shore does not receive Estonian citizenship. Estonian citizenship is granted to people who are related to Estonia, whose loyalty we are certain, who meet certain conditions whose parents have been in Estonia since Estonia regained independence, etc. I've been saying all this. Of course, if you had the opportunity to ask a third question, you'd still be asking the same questions and I'd still be saying the same things, but it's not very fruitful. So accept that you don't like this bill, I understand that. And I am absolutely sure that if there is a round of speeches from the political groups, you will say that under no circumstances will you support this draft, you will oppose it. There will be representatives of the coalition parties and they will say that they support it, they will be in favour of it. Look, it's called a ritual dance. It's the kind of dance the Indians dance. The opposition dances its ritual dance and the coalition dances its ritual dance. And so he is. But there is no disaster scenario. 1523 children born in Estonia, of whom obviously all parents will not apply for Estonian citizenship, because as long as non-citizens have free access both to the West and to the East, most of them prefer to remain in this status. To make it some sort of nullity, the destruction of the Estonian language and the disastrous transformation of citizenship policy, is an obvious exaggeration. Let us, however, remain within the limits of reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U109	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U110	Thank you. Minister of the Interior! I have always believed that Estonia is a country where the social worker, plumber, policeman, teacher and other ministers, including the Prime Minister, still live by the law, not by the coalition agreement. It is probably one document that has tried to record the activities that are expected to be achieved within a year, two, or three, or four. But that's not the question. The question is precisely the example given by Katri Raigi. And now I have a question for you: if this law is passed, will it make people's lives easier and clearer? The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out that laws must be understandable and must not give rise to appearances. And yet, still those 1523 children, as you said. It wouldn't hurt to know where they live. There could be such an overview when the number of these children has been so accurately counted. But once again, would this law make a life easier and clearer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U111	Well, the question is this general philosophy. Whose life would that make it easier? The PBA has said that their lives would not be made easier because they have to deal with the relevant documents. At the same time, I think that the lives of those people who want to acquire Estonian citizenship are likely to become easier for these young people and perhaps their parents too. But it's kind of a philosophical subject. But when it comes to the coalition treaty, once again, repetition is the mother of wisdom. Once again, and you yourself have stated that it sets out the objectives that are to be achieved. This objective is written down there, it is now being realised, and therefore what has been agreed will be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U112	Thank you. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U113	Honourable Minister! You said yesterday you gave Estonian citizenship to people who had passed all the relevant tests and filters, and that they were very happy. That's very good to hear. A total of 160,000 people have received Estonian citizenship by naturalisation. Sixteen thousand! In addition, we have 80000 or up to 100000 citizens from the Russian Federation, about whom the Minister said at the beginning of his presentation that this fact is very dangerous. And it's true, I'm a hundred percent in agreement that it's very dangerous. Now, put these numbers side by side and then talk long and wide about this 1500 people... By the way, there is still a element in the nullity of citizenship. At the time, 30 years ago, the zero option was not considered to apply to everyone; there were also some sort of passageways involved. But I'm just asking if there's a big point in this law in this form. This actually affects a very small group of people and solves a very small problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U114	I would say that the idea of this law is a declaration of goodwill. The practical point is minimal given these large numbers, and I drew attention to these larger numbers. It is very good that the honourable deputy speaker has taken the trouble to look up these exact figures now, and indeed, against the background of these large numbers, I will say once again that the draft includes a marginal number of people and is rather regarded as a declaration of goodwill for a certain population group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U115	Thank you. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U116	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good minister! In your reasoning why you do not support the Reform Party's draft on the transition to a common Estonian-language education system, you indicated that there are not enough teachers. At the same time, you now want to put the Estonian-language and Russian-language teacher class in parallel. It doesn't match my logic, so where are they gonna find twice as many people now? And at the same time, you said in your presentation today when you spoke about these changes that the level of Russian schools in Estonia is not enough. At the same time, you are sure that the children to whom you offer citizenship as this nullity will be able to understand the Estonian language. How do these things work out? Does the Russian school in Estonia now guarantee the knowledge of the Estonian language, as well as the Constitution and the rights and responsibilities of citizens?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U117	There's been a little communication disturbance now. I didn't support any mixed schools. On the contrary, I believe that as long as we are not able to switch to a common Estonian education, it will be better for children and teachers to be healthier and more beneficial if the current school arrangements are maintained. That's my point of view. This was my position, by the way, even before the elections and in the pre-election debates, which I was always defending, rather than talking about the transition to Estonian-language education that was promoted by the representatives of your party during the election campaign. But it's okay, there's the truth in disputes. That's right. But when it comes to learning the Estonian language, there are certainly problems. [[It's ringing.]] There are certainly problems in our school education as a whole and, of course, students' will depends on the student, some acquire quickly, some learn easily, some are motivated and wanting, others do not want to. I'm sure he's coming from this school... [[It's ringing.]] I'm sorry! I'm trying to turn it off. Young people with very different language skills come from the current Russian-speaking school. There is no doubt about that, but this does not mean that they do not have the basic skills of the Estonian language at all. My experience in communicating with the younger Russian generation is positive in this respect. Yes, of course they prefer to communicate in Russian. If they are met, they will not bother to cross over to Estonian, but if they are spoken in Estonian and they understand that indeed the conversation partner does not speak Russian, as is quite common in the case of the younger generation of Estonians, they will use fully understandable Estonian. So this thing is not as black and white as a political propaganda could be presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U118	Thank you. Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U119	Thank you. Good waitress! I listened carefully to both the presentation and the answers to the questions. I heard from your introduction that you mentioned that this bill concerns a marginal of 1500 people. I wonder if these people feel marginal. But my question relates to the coalition agreement that you referred to several times. Is the draft 57, which will be discussed tomorrow, as well as the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, also provided for in the Coalition Agreement? And how did this bill, or 57 SEs, arrive at this Riigikogu if you do not support it as a party? Are you no longer consensual in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U120	It's not in the coalition agreement. But how it got into this hall is a longer story, and since we are not discussing this bill right now, I will not comment on it. As for the fact that I was talking about a marginal number of people, I don't think they're margins. I meant the large, hundreds of thousands of people who are either Estonian citizens, not citizens of any state, or Russian citizens, but are not ethnic Estonians or born Estonian citizens. Compared to this amount, we're dealing with a marginal number of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U121	Thank you. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr. Helme! When you answered Andres Sut's question, you said that we are not discussing this bill here. Similarly, I could object to your repeated references: Mr Helme, we are not discussing the coalition agreement here today. We're still discussing bill 58. And you have also relatively patronizingly told the hall that 'I have said this repeatedly' and 'I have said this repeatedly'. You see, Mr Helme, as a minister, you repeat your answers on the floor just as much as the members of the Riigikogu ask you. But here's my question. Do you think that bill 58 is ready, unambiguous, or is it interpretational and crude?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U123	He's completely ready and unambiguous. But since this bill has been looking for places to grab, I've taken the liberty of explaining, explaining things. That's why we're talking about a coalition treaty. I will try to explain everything about the draft, and if these extensions and explanations of my subject have sounded patronizing in any way, I can assure you that this has not been my purpose. But yes, please consider these explanations and thematic extensions as an attempt to better explain the subject of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U124	Thank you. Looks like there's no more questions for the Minister. Thank you! And now a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Andrei Korobeinik, receives the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U125	Thank you. Good Riigikogu! Today, I am telling you about what took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs during the debate on the 58 draft law. I will not introduce the contents of the draft to you again, I will talk about questions and answers. The most important issues were as follows: First, the question was what to do if one of the parents wants Estonian citizenship for the child and the other one does not. The legislator's representative explained that it is generally based on the understanding that both parents agree. If the other parent makes a clear request that he or she does not wish his or her child to become an Estonian citizen, he or she will not become an Estonian citizen. If the other parent simply doesn't react, then citizenship is granted. There was a question of what would happen if a parent with a grey passport had lived in Estonia all his life, but had been born after regaining independence. In that case, according to this bill, his or her child is not automatically granted citizenship. However, if the child's grandmother or grandfather lived in Estonia before regaining independence, he will have this opportunity. A large part of the debate was devoted to the issue of double citizenship, but since it is not related to the context of the draft law currently under discussion, I will leave this issue out. The important question related to how the child, according to the understanding of this bill, still receives Estonian citizenship. If one of his or her parents is a national of another country, he or she is most likely to have the nationality of another country and it is impossible to give up the citizenship of another country before he or she becomes an adult. As a matter of fact, that was true. A child can become an Estonian citizen if he or she chooses Estonian citizenship and renounces citizenship of another country when he or she becomes an adult. Before that, he has a notional Estonian citizenship. In general, that's all. The presentation of this draft law was on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 23 September, and I was appointed rapporteur in the large hall, and by consensus it was decided to send the draft bill to the first reading of the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U126	Thank you. It is now possible for everyone to ask questions to the Commission representative. First Liina Kersna, please! Yes, that is the third question, indeed, unfortunately cannot. Up to two oral questions may be submitted to the rapporteurs throughout the sitting. So a total of two, that's how the law of our house and our rules of procedure lays down. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U127	Good waitress, thank you! You have made it very clear here that it is all assumed that the child will retain the citizenship of another country and, in fact, will have a 'conditional citizenship'. It's a term I heard for the first time in my life today. You yourself have been through the naturalization process. If you were in such a situation and such a law was passed, wouldn't you feel deceived?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U128	How would I feel if I was a kid?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U129	If you were a parent. Don't you think it's a scam?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U130	This role-playing game has not taken place in the Commission, but you are asking for my personal opinion, right? Well, that's a two-way thing. If the child is of an adult age, then perhaps he or she can make a better choice between two citizenships. In this sense, there are advantages in this situation. I certainly think that this is a better situation than it is now, if not even this option.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U131	Please, Signe Riisalo!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U132	Thank you. As a legislator, the Riigikogu is, however, responsible for the overall view. If we change the Citizenship Act with different drafts, then the whole that comes out of here must be applicable and solve people's concerns. In the committee, did you discuss the link between the 57 drafts on the agenda tomorrow and the draft we are discussing today? And was there any discussion of the EKRE's attitude towards the draft that will be on the agenda tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U133	I think you mean the bill on the exams, right? This is a draft to be discussed in the Committee on Culture. Well, a lot of things relate to each other, but my presentation today concerns draft 58 and I, as rapporteur for the Commission, would limit myself to this particular subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U134	Well, thank you! Looks like there's no more questions. Let's go to the negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups who have five plus three minutes or two minutes to speak on the ground may speak. I'm opening negotiations. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U135	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A few comments on today's debate, as I have dealt with these issues and issues at the right time in different roles. This procedure has been surprising to me in many respects. Basically because the minister didn't know what we were talking about at first. There have then been a number of possibilities to familiarise themselves with what is likely to have happened, but it has not become clear to the public whether the Minister understands or does not understand. But a few remarks before I get to that. Firstly, it is not right to link this draft to a wider debate on double citizenship. It is a stand-alone wide-ranging discussion that takes place both in our society and in many other societies and concerns whether Estonian citizens have the right to have other citizenships in parallel or not. Let's not bring this discussion together here! This has been done both by the Reform Party and by the government that has initiated this draft. This is another fundamental issue. The aim of the draft is to solve the problem that a large proportion of children born in Estonia, growing, living in Estonia, are actually growing as citizens of the Russian Federation, which, I think, is not in the interests of the Republic of Estonia. And that's why I think the direction taken in itself makes sense. I myself have been one of the spokesmen in this direction for many years. As Mr Rõivas recalled, in 2014 we adopted a law that entered into force on 1 January 2016 and gives two non-citizens' children Estonian citizenship. And the next step is that, in fact, we could give this right to other children who are born in Estonia and who, in my opinion, should not be punished for the fact that their parents have taken the citizenship of the Russian Federation at a certain point in time. The Social Democrats have submitted a draft to the proceedings with this content. The coalition agreement agreed in the previous government, which, because of one coalition partner, did not become a reality, was exactly what it said. It was basically said that regardless of the nationality of the child's parents, when the child was born in Estonia, there is a permanent resident here and his 'family ties' with Estonia were also there in 1991, then he is our child. We give him Estonian citizenship, he grows as an Estonian citizen. Studies show that in this case the identity of citizens will be strengthened, the motivation to learn the Estonian language and the knowledge of the Estonian Constitution will increase. This would be a prerequisite for integration rather than a very sensible step to be taken as a result of integration. Now the government has politically agreed that we will not give it to everyone. It is clear that there is no substantive argument here as to why it has been politically agreed that we will only give to those whose parent is a non-citizen and the other is a citizen of the Russian Federation, so that only they can obtain citizenship by simplified procedure, but if there are two citizens of the Russian Federation, then not. This is clearly unequal treatment. The children of the citizens of the Russian Federation are, in everything else, equal: they were born here, their ancestors lived here in 1991, they all go to the same school in accordance with the basic school and upper secondary school law, and they all do the same, pass the same program. Why do we treat them differently? The only answer is that the political agreement is to draw this circle down from 8500 to 1500 people, and then Mart Helme can say that it is a marginal target group, as Mr Sutt rightly pointed out. Then you can say don't worry, it's okay, it's just a few people, nothing bad's gonna happen. Okay, it's a political choice. Now on to the more serious problem, which is the second paragraph of the first paragraph of this draft. It only consists of two paragraphs. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U136	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U137	It's a question of double citizenship that I started with, but let's not bring this discussion in here, please. In fact, 2013 was the year we dealt with the so-called Kohtla-Järve girl case here in the Riigikogu. The case was what? A Russian citizen's father had taken the girl's citizenship from the Russian Federation. But the girl had previously become an Estonian citizen. The Estonian state began to take away his Estonian passport because at one point he was found to be a citizen of the Russian Federation. Our country told him: go and give up the Russian passport if you want to keep the Estonian passport. The girl and her parents wanted to retain the Estonian passport and renounce the citizenship of the Russian Federation, but this was not possible in accordance with § 19 (3) of the Russian Federation Citizenship Act. The Russian Federation does not even accept such a request in proceedings because it will only exempt a minor from citizenship if he or she goes to the same nationality as his or her parents. Same nationality! Since this condition was not met, the girl was not in fact able to take that step. That is why we gave the same law that entered into force on 1 January 2016 the right for minors to be 'double-citizens' until they reached the age of 18. And when a young person turns 18, he or she will have to decide within three years whether he or she wants to be an Estonian citizen and will give up the citizenship of a third country, or what, hopefully, will happen very little to give up Estonian citizenship in order to remain a citizen of a third country. In fact, this solved the problem that, regardless of the child's will, he would lose his Estonian passport, as the other country would not exempt him from its citizenship. And this provision still applies: all minors living in Estonia can be double citizens until the age of 18, no one touches them. And now, according to this draft, we are imposing an additional, stricter requirement on a small group of 1523 children. Everyone else may be double citizens, but they can't. Look what we're doing with this! It's a mockery of people. The child goes to the Police and Border Guard Board with the parent, pays 13 euros of state fees to apply for citizenship, the government makes a decision: please, here is the government's order to give citizenship, signed by Jüri Ratas. But it will only come into effect when the child brings the paper that he or she is exempt from the citizenship of the Russian Federation. That's not the kind of paper this kid can bring. According to current laws, this is simply not possible for reasons beyond his control. As a result, it is as if this citizenship exists, after all, a government decision has been made, but until the age of 18, this family or this child cannot do anything in its power to actually acquire Estonian citizenship. In my opinion, it's a mockery of people. The parliament of the Republic of Estonia may decide whether or not to give citizenship to this target group, to these children under a simplified procedure. This is a legitimate decision, which can be made by both weather and other factors. However, if this decision is made that we want to give this group citizenship under a simplified procedure, and I support it, it should really be given, it should, however, be resolved by the state in a dignified way, not by creating, as the Chancellor of Justice has mentioned earlier, a cafca situation that gives rise to a minor grudge. And the petty grudge will gradually lead not to the cohesive society that Lord Helme spoke about, but rather to the contrary, in the end there will be a great grudge. I have also addressed this question to the Chancellor of Justice. In 2013, I also turned when it was on the agenda last time. I think that I hope that we will soon have explanations regarding the constitutional nature of this draft. In any case, in order to be able to support this draft in the final vote, this second paragraph must be scraped out of here, because it is absolutely unacceptable to mock people. And the Social Democrats are going to make an amendment to this draft, otherwise it will just be crap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U138	Thank you. Next, please, in Taavi's garment!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U139	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft must be seen in the context. Firstly, the coalition recently said no to the transition to education in Estonian, and several coalition ambassadors then rushed to announce that it would remain so. The coalition currently in office is the only one to ensure that Russian education lasts from generation to generation in Estonia, and so forever. This means that, unfortunately, there are quite a large number of young people with other mother tongues in Estonia who receive inadequate education in Estonian as minors. Secondly, in this context, it is also necessary to look at the current draft 37 of the Riigikogu, which has been submitted by the Reform Party and to which the Government opposes the cross. Bill 37 would allow all children of Estonians who are born in the United States, for example, and who have the right to Estonian citizenship and the right to birth, thanks to their parents, also the citizenship of the United States of America, to remain an Estonian citizen. If this family happens to live in the United States, and there are very, very many outside Estonian families, then they are clearly tempted to retain US citizenship. It's practical. At the same time, it is entirely Estonian people, with children from two Estonians who speak Estonian, singing Estonian songs, they are our people. But to them we say, stop, we don't need you anymore. The coalition wants to say the same thing, for example, to the child of the Estonian mother and Finnish father or Finnish mother and Estonian father, who at birth has both Estonian and Finnish citizenship. To them, too, we say 'no', nor are they suitable for our citizens. But now that it is the descendants of the citizens of the Russian Federation, it is only enough to make a statement, and be my guest, you can come! In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mart Helme presented completely, I would say, a new doctrine that has never existed in Estonia before. This is what he said: 'We (Maybe by referring to ourselves and to the government union). We are considerably more liberal than you (referring to the Reform Party). (T.R.) and we find that the blood-based approach to citizenship is time and time. You have to approach on a territorial basis. 'Well, if it's not a null variant of citizenship, then what is it? If this is not a change in the fundamental principles of citizenship policy, what is it? By the way, the coalition agreement, which was very much discussed today, states that the fundamental principles of citizenship policy will not be changed, but the bill before you 58 congratulations! just changes the basic principles so that there isn't enough. And if you call it a gesture of goodwill, I want to see the mood in which you vote for it, by making this gesture at the expense of changing the fundamental principles of Estonian citizenship policy. The good practice in the Riigikogu is that if the minister comes to this speech chair, he has brought himself up to date with all the details of the draft. Clearly, this has not happened at the moment, and I really do not want to believe that the Minister deliberately erred against fundamental, important facts. I believe it was ignorance. But I will highlight the two most important facts that he was wrong about. First of all, the claim on basic school exams is no longer at all. Once this bill is adopted, these young people, under the age of 15, will become Estonian citizens. What kind of test do they need to take now that they're citizens? In this case, should my child, who is now 10 years old, or those children who are two or less years old respectively, start taking the Estonian citizenship test in primary school? They do not, because they are Estonian citizens. And the same is true of all the young people affected by this bill. If they only become Estonian citizens on the basis of the application, without passing the exam, without proving the proficiency of the Estonian language, then the basic school examination, I am sorry, is no longer relevant. So you've got this messed up like a Kört-Pärt shirt on Sunday morning. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U140	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U141	In general, it doesn't matter what you have in the coalition agreement. Today we learned that the coalition agreement has to be divided by about 14 to get the correct coefficient between what was promised and what was executed. But whether or not this basic school exam comes or does not come, it will no longer have the least impact on these specific young people. Now another mistake which the Minister made right at the beginning of his speech. This is the argument that a group that has been in a different situation from others will solve some of the problems of the draft. I'm sorry, this group hasn't been in a different situation. All those people who are not Estonian citizens at birth must do two basic things: an examination of basic Estonian skills and an examination of constitutional order. We think it's not too much. The fact that a person can speak Estonian if he or she wants to become an Estonian citizen is not much to ask. And if you can speak Estonian, please, you are welcome. But if you do not want to learn Estonian, it is very difficult to give you Estonian citizenship. Finally. Who would have thought that in 2019 we would be faced by the Chairman of the EKRE, who would promote the age-based version of the null version of the clay island citizenship, according to which a certain proportion of people of certain ages would be allowed to debate a null variant right here on the remote and in other remote controls 30 years ago. The Reform Party does not support this draft and we also propose to interrupt the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act 58. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U142	Thank you. It is not possible to interrupt the first reading. It should be proposed to reject the draft. But that's it. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U143	Ladies and gentlemen, Today's vote is actually very important. There are quite a lot of people living in Estonia with grey passports, and the colour of their passports does not bring happiness to them or to the owners of other passports. Many of them have lived in Estonia all their lives, and their children too, and some of them feel that they are foreign to their country. For some of you, it may seem that if these children become Estonian citizens, they will suddenly vote in favour of the wrong party. It's not a constructive attitude. On the contrary! If grey passports fall in history step by step, the so-called Russian political map will also be in history, and in election campaigns this will end in the division of society. Alien fur is an important political instrument in Estonia today, but it can also be different. With today's draft, we can take an important step towards resolving the problem. The grey passports remain, but basically we're going to stop producing the grey passports. That's the big deal! In his presentation, the Minister of the Interior quoted the English philosopher Francis Bacon. Bacon also said that a person is born, a person dies, and if he does anything reasonable in his life, he has done well. I ask you to make a sensible decision and vote in favour of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U144	Thank you. It seems that the parties no longer wish to negotiate. I'm closing the negotiations. Does the Minister have a few more words to say? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U145	I guess the convicts still have a last word for it. And since I was convicted here by Taavi Rõivas of incompetence, the introduction of the nullity, the destruction of the Estonian language and other deadly sins, it was not possible to remain silent. All these charges, of course, are unfounded. All these accusations are propaganda, which, of course, is a proper action for politicians. However, I would like to point out that the nullity option is currently actually being applied by the Centre Party in matters of nationality, which... I'm sorry! The Reform Party. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Reform Party! You see, the Reform Party has lost its sense of reform so much that it is difficult to name them. I'm sorry I'm so witty, but it is. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You see, this bill, which was also discussed by one of the previous speakers here, about double citizenship, will completely destroy Estonia in the long term. This is not just about Estonians living somewhere in Canada or Sweden. This means that when the honorary chairman of the Reform Party said that we have 160,000 naturalised citizens whose origin is Russia, whose native language is Russian, their children and grandchildren are already Estonian citizens after birth. And if we are going to allow double citizenship to Estonian citizens after birth, we will open such a Pandora box that no one will ever close it again. What we are offering now is indeed a step towards Estonia's cohesion, a step towards reducing the gaps, a step towards showing good will. Allowing double citizenship would mean the destruction of Estonian identity, Estonian language, Estonian national home. Let's move forward with the rooster steps to solve our historical problems, but let's not destroy Estonia! It's that simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U146	Thank you. Since we have had a proposal from the Reform Party Group to reject the draft at first reading, we must put this proposal to the vote. And in order for all our ladies and gentlemen to come to the hall, the sally first. Do ladies and gentlemen think we can go to the vote? Thank you. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Reform Party Group to reject the 58 proposals at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 30 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and opposed to the proposal. The proposal was not supported. Pursuant to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, the first reading of the draft 58 has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments, including 7 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-23_U147	And now, after the hammer hit, everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone. There's no call. Thank you. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.04 p.m.
