ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Honourable Minister! Honourable guests! The Tuesday session of the fourth or last working week of the IX plenary session shall begin with the referral of drafts and questions. That's not what you wanted, and you probably didn't discuss it loudly in the hall. Incoming check, please! 72 delegates will take part in the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, let me put some detail on the agenda. Aivar Surva, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, will make a presentation at second reading of the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act, which was initiated by the Committee on Rural Affairs, during the debate on today's fourth item. At the debate on today's sixth item, the draft Act on Supplementing the VAT Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, 763 at first reading, will be presented by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U2	Today's first item is the third reading of Riigikogu members Raivo Aegi, Ants Laaneots, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Priit Sibula, Maire Aunaste, Uno Kaskpeiti, Arno Silla, Raivo Põljaru, Henn Põljaasa, Martin Helme, Andres Metsoja, Ain Lutsepa, Krista Aru, Artur Talviku, Enn Meri, Jaanus Karilaidi, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Mart Helme, Madis Milling, Meelis Mälberg, Peep Aru, Toomas Väinaste, Helmut Hallemaa, Aivar Koka, Hardi Volmer, Tiit Teriku, Anneli Oti, Märt Sultsi, Toomas Pauri, Enn Esmaa, Valeri Korb, Toomas Vitsut, Kübarsepse and Johannes Kerdi's Act on the implementation of the Defence Service Act and Amending Law 667. I will open the political group negotiations if I so wish. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act and the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act 667. Please take a stand and vote. 72 delegates voted in favour, with one abstention, and no votes against. Bill 667 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U3	The second item is the debate on foreign policy as a key national issue initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Let us briefly mention how we will conduct this debate. According to § 153 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Bureau appointed the following procedure for the discussion of a national issue of vital importance. First, the Foreign Minister is Sven Mikser's presentation, up to 20 minutes, then questions and answers, up to 90 minutes. A presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will follow for up to 15 minutes, then questions and answers, up to 30 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may put together two oral questions. Then there are negotiations and the Riigikogu will not take a decision at the end of the debate. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed to extend the session until 14 p.m. if necessary, but we will deal with this issue more precisely when the time is right. Secretary of State Sven Mikser for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! Let me start today with a view to history. Celebrating 100 years since the birth of the Republic of Estonia, we also celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs last year. Throughout the history of our country, the External Action Service has been the bearer of our unbroken national continuity. Manifest to all the peoples of Estonia bore the idea of self-determination of the peoples. A few weeks before the declaration of Estonia's independence, however, US President Woodrow Wilson gave a speech to the US Congress, which presented a plan for peace in Europe. Wilson placed liberal values at the heart of international relations: free trade, democracy, the right of nations to choose their own future, cooperation between sovereign states. For all these ideas, the world was not yet ripe at the time. But Estonia's independence was not an outbreak of wilsonist idealism. It was the fulfillment of a long dream that the changing world order gave us an opportunity and which became a reality as a people's effort. Independence was confirmed by struggles and sacrifices in the War of Independence, which was completed by the Tartu Peace Treaty as our first tangible diplomatic grand achievement. Estonia and other independent small countries hoped that the superpowers would start developing a rule-based international relations system instead of an imperialist sphere of influence policy. During the first decade of independence, our diplomatic activities tried to integrate Estonia into Europe. However, the European superpowers did not accept small countries as equivalent in international relations. Thus, before the Second World War, we lost our independence and, in the ensuing occupations, an important part of our people. Following World War II, the United States and its allies sought to protect Western freedoms and value against Soviet Union and international Communism. Democracy, the rule of law, personal freedoms, the market economy and free trade were at the forefront. NATO was created 70 years ago to protect these values. The French Minister for Foreign Affairs, Robert Schuman, also added to the arsenal of European values the concept of solidarity on which today's European Union is founded. The ideals of freedom were lived by our people throughout the period of occupation and returned together with the non-recognition policy of the Soviet occupation of Western countries, the continuation and continuity of Estonia's independence. As after the first war, we were able to use the window of opportunity opened in the post-Cold War and build a democratic society that has been impressively strong. Speaking to you last year, I stated that, in recent years, one of the deepest and most fundamental challenges facing democratic countries and their governments has been to challenge the values of liberal democracy, both globally, in the European Union and in Estonia. I recall that these principles that served Estonia successfully since the restoration of independence continue to be under pressure. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would now like to share with you the challenges we face and, together, to look for solutions that would help protect and promote a rule-based world order and thus serve our foreign policy and security interests. First of all, from the UN. As early as June, Estonia will be elected as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. The effectiveness of the UN has been much criticised, sometimes rightly, but it does not call into question the need for this unique, inclusive global organisation, where all countries can resolve the tensions and conflicts that arise on the basis of agreed rules and strive for long-term development goals. Above all, it is the United Nations that is important for small countries whose power never competes with those of the great powers, but who, as members of the international community, have all the same rights. If Estonia sees the collapse of the rule-based world order, isolationism and the threat of force-pressing politics, we must try, together with other countries of the same mind, to reverse or at least neutralize these trends. This is only possible by actively contributing and participating. There are a number of topics to which Estonia must make a special commitment as a member of the UN Security Council: the application of international law in cyberspace, conflict prevention by improving resilience, climate and natural environment issues, women's and children's rights and safety, and certainly the updating of the UN Security Council's own working methods. Good listeners! Next, transatlantic relations. The transatlantic security dialogue remains strong, while in recent years we have perceived inconsistencies in a number of policy areas, which may also have a negative impact on the existing consensus on foreign and security policy. It is obvious that the US's leading role in ensuring NATO's deterrence and defence and its contribution to European security remains essential. At the same time, the European allies must take seriously the US call for a fairer sharing of the burden. Investing in their own security is the responsibility of each country, and its fulfilment provides the basis for trusting allies. It is good to say that by the end of this year, the so-called 2% club is expected to reach nine members and a number of others are making concrete plans on how to achieve this goal. Estonia's defence expenditures exceed 2% of our GDP for a number of years, and therefore in our discussions we will focus more on whether and what additional contribution is needed in order to close the initial gaps and develop our own defence capabilities even more effectively. At the NATO summit in Warsaw last year, a number of decisions were taken, the implementation of which, as well as the number of countries participating in the increased allies presence in our region, is a clear example of strong alliances in practice. During the summit in Brussels last summer, we focused on further strengthening the alliance's deterrence by improving military planning and capacity building. In recent years, we have seen important developments in the European Union's defence cooperation, as well as in cooperation between the European Union and NATO. Strategic communication, cyber-hybrid threats and the development of military mobility are good examples of mutually beneficial cooperation. It is important that the development of European defence cooperation complements and does not seek to replace a security solution based on a transatlantic link. The debate on Europe's strategic autonomy must also not become an unnecessary irritant in transatlantic relations. Our bilateral relations with the United States are very good. In strengthening cooperation on defence and security, we will focus on military exercises, cyber, energy security and strategic communication. For the sake of a greater US military presence in Estonia and in the Baltic Sea region as a whole, we are working with Latvia, Lithuania and Poland. The global threat picture is becoming increasingly complex. Asymmetrical threats do not recognise national borders and their sources are difficult to identify. Separatists, terrorist organisations, as well as autocratic regimes, are acting more and more forcefully and brazenly. Illegal migration, resulting from conflicts and instability in the neighbourhood of the European Union, as well as economic and climate problems, has an impact on European security. International terrorism is often based on those areas of conflict where crisis prevention has not been successful. In this context, alongside addressing the root causes of the conflict, contributions must also be made to military operations to physically weaken terrorist networks. The Riigikogu's mandate to continue training Iraqi troops is valid until the end of this year. Last year, Estonia in Mali participates in the French-led operation Barkhane, which aims to combat terrorism in the Sahel region. Now that the global coalition is gaining territorial victory over ISIS, more must be done to create stability in order to prevent the emergence of new violence and the spread of extremist ideas. Therefore, last year and this year Estonia has promised to provide humanitarian aid for a total of 1.3 million euros to alleviate the Syrian crisis. Good listeners! While 15 years of NATO membership have strengthened our security, 15 years as a member of the European Union have significantly increased our prosperity, prosperity and security. As an organisation, the European Union is unique in how deeply its rules and mechanisms have become part of the everyday life of the Member States, but Europe is also a body of ideas and values. Today, the unity of the Union and its fundamental values under attack are the wrong-based populism and the fears of low instincts are a tool in the hands of opponents of the European idea. These technologies have also been attempted to be imported into Estonia, whose inhabitants' support for the European Union has traditionally been high. We are sometimes set an example of so-called 'non-liberal democracy', which is essentially the lack of democracy. European unity is opposed to national sovereignty, forgetting that it is precisely cooperation that increases the influence of small countries. If we give our sovereignty to the service of common interests, it is precisely to ensure that our independence and sovereignty are preserved. Joint decisions and policies in the European Union provide leverage for Estonian policies and Estonia's development. Good listeners! The final solution of Brexit is not yet clear today, but Estonia remains an important partner of Britain outside the European Union. We want to put the ongoing divorce process behind us with as little loss as possible in order to focus on creating a new, functional relationship in the economy and trade, internal and external security, youth and student exchange, digital and cyber fields, science. We are also working in a coordinated manner to ensure that our citizens and businesses do not suffer from Brexit. Of course, Brexit is also a lesson in how closely we are compounded by the threads of the European Union and how difficult it is to unravel them, both technically and fundamentally, and to what extent the cost of the absence of the European Union could be for us. This year, discussions will begin on the priorities and objectives of the European Union for the next five years. There are many areas where we belong among the leaders, such as digital solutions, data economy, cybersecurity. The European Union's financial framework for the next seven years must support these priorities, while also maintaining traditional priorities: cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. Of the major projects, Rail Baltic and our electricity networks are important for Estonia to synchronise with the European frequency band. Honourable Riigikogu! On the 10th anniversary of the Eastern Partnership of the European Union, we express our support for the reforms of the Eastern partners and provide a perspective for further development of relations. Development cooperation is an important tool for promoting a common value area that will contribute to improving the well-being and security of both our neighbours and our neighbours. In this way, support for democracy and the development of the rule of law, the introduction of good governance and the promotion of civil society and human rights in Ukraine will strengthen the stability and development of Europe as a whole. In the near future, Estonia must also be able to contribute more to the issues of the southern neighbourhood of the European Union. In development cooperation, too, we need to look beyond the horizon and focus on the least developed countries. We have been a wealthy and very successful small country in terms of the world for many years, and so the next Riigikogu membership and government must find a way to reach 0.33% of gross national income promised in development cooperation and humanitarian aid. Let me remind you that today this ratio is only 0.18%. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia's economic success depends very much on foreign markets. Through an open market economy, a common trade policy for the European Union and a contractually regulated external trade, we have made good progress in our prosperity. The free trade agreement between the European Union and Japan, which entered into force on 1 February, is a very good example that Europe can do much more together than its Member States individually. However, also in external trade relations, a multilateral, rule-based approach is partly replaced by a limited volume of trade and protectionism. European businesses face barriers to entry, unavoidable transfer of technologies, lack of freedom on the Internet. This in turn justifies the introduction of protectionist barriers in Europe and the US. The European Union must be consistent in defending one of its fundamental principles in a free market. Estonia, for its part, will continue to actively promote rule-based free trade by seeking solutions that would help to maintain transatlantic trade relations and mitigate tensions in relations between the European Union and the US. Helping Estonian entrepreneurs find export markets is a priority for our External Action Service. We have been successful and our exports are larger than ever before, but to move forward we need to be more focused and be able to make better use of our advantages. Another important objective is to bring foreign investment, focusing on capital-intensive smart areas in order to increase the added value of Estonian products. External economic interests are an important criterion for expanding the network of our representations. Good examples are the soon-to-be Embassy in Abu Dhabi, which is the gateway to the Arabian Peninsula, as well as the Consulate General on the west coast of the United States in San Francisco. Even more effectively, we must use our network of honorary consuls to promote exports and strengthen the direction of business diplomacy in representations and also in Tallinn. Good Riigikogu! The digital dimension of Estonian foreign policy is growing. Having managed to build one of the world's most advanced e-states at home, our reputation is very good internationally. This creates new opportunities for us to introduce Estonia, our goods and services. We are also helping other countries, regions and organisations to adopt information society solutions. The promotion of the information society requires, but also supports openness, freedom of expression, protection of human rights and rule-basedness, thus serving the broader objectives of Estonian foreign policy. Having created a strong national cyber defence and cyber security system, we are high on the world's cyber security index. Last year, 94 governments' delegations visited our solutions. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is stepping up development cooperation with countries that want to learn from our experiences. In developing countries, both digital and cybersecurity market niches are still unoccupied, and there are opportunities for our private sector as well. By being small and flexible, we can teach how to create a functioning national cyber defence system with few resources. Another area where Estonia is at the forefront is the design of cyber norms and international law. Politically motivated cyber attacks are an increasing threat to security. The responsible behaviour of countries in cyberspace is becoming increasingly important. We are therefore active in shaping cyber security initiatives by the UN, the OSCE, the Council of Europe and other organisations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to set up an international cyber law competence centre in cooperation with universities and research institutions to develop our expertise. Today, Estonia is one of the leading providers of cyber expertise for international organisations and our task is to maintain and strengthen the status of the leading cyber state. The rapid changes brought about by the IT revolution create many uncertainties about the future. Cyber attacks and cyberspace information operations pose a threat, while the automation of jobs and the triumph of artificial intelligence offer new opportunities, which Estonia must seize as a flexible small country. We need a new Tiger Jump, which incorporates the political, economic, scientific and educational potential of the whole of society, and to achieve which we need to significantly increase the financing of our research and technological development. Finally, to a new level of innovation, as a country, we must channel a resource that is comparable to the resources of the countries that are showing the way today in terms of innovation. Good Riigikogu! Finally, I would like to emphasise once again that Estonia's interests are based on our values and are best protected in cooperation based on liberal values and rules. Estonia has done well as an independent state in history when the liberal value area has dominated the international arena. Europe has done well when the international relations system has been rule-based and respectful of national sovereignty. On the other hand, the darkest chapters of our continent are written at a time when limited national self-interest has been put ahead of international cooperation or when liberal ideals have been suppressed and destroyed. If someone feels that the value of a value area based on democracy, a market economy, civil and human rights, the rule of law and solidarity has become a burden on Europe, then we must also ask what the alternative is. How can we cope with the attack of illiberalism and autocracy, how can we resist the return of the policy of spheres of influence to the global arena? How can solidarity be maintained with allies and partners when nationalist self-interests are overshadowed by common interest? If we cannot or do not want to show solidarity with others, why should others show solidarity with us? During the last 30 years, Estonian diplomacy and the External Action Service have carried out the will of the people to be in a political, economic and security space that unites Western values. In promoting the national interests of Estonia, we have always strived for a consensual foreign policy. All post-independence governments have strengthened Estonia's sovereignty and international position through allied and partnership relations. I am convinced that the next government will also put foreign policy at the service of our interests and provide the resources necessary for the successful functioning of the External Action Service. The foreign policy development plan, which sets out the activities for the next decade and will be discussed by the new government and the Riigikogu, will help. Finally, let me return to almost 100 years ago and quote Jaan Poska, the first Estonian Foreign Minister, who spoke in the Constituent Assembly on 10 February 1920: 'Because it may happen that we must stand up to defend our own neutrality and take our weapons of war, because after we have made peace and it is confirmed, we are in the position of the neutral state and must defend its duties against the countries that are still fighting. ' This quote is the answer to those who ask what plan B is in Estonia, as foreign policy based on allied relations, European solidarity and Western value-space should fail us. The answer is simple: our actions today are the alternative to the plan that failed in 1939. A democratic small state survives and develops when it defends its values both at home and abroad, and if it has allies sharing these values, who are also prepared to promote and defend them together. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U5	The length of the round of questions, I recall, is today an hour and a half. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U6	Thank you. First of all, thank you for your speech, which was boring in a good way. In today's crazy foreign policy, it is a pure joy to hear the talk of liberal values. But I'll bring up a few critical notes for last year. I think there were two cases when you failed. One in Danske's scandal was the presentation of Estonia's positions abroad and in foreign media, and the other was the clarification of the positions related to the migration agreement within the country. These two cases will certainly be remembered negatively from last year. But my concern is about the future. If we are to become a member of the UN Security Council, we must make difficult decisions every week and every month and explain them both abroad and in our home country. So how do we do it? This work is probably even more complicated than it was last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U7	Thank you. As regards the two cases, or the two international issues that affected Estonia last year, in the case of Danske Bank and the money laundering scandal, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not really try to interfere with the national theme era. What the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our diplomatic representations did to explain Estonia's positions, but also to prevent or mitigate any unfair criticism towards Estonia, may have been somewhat hidden from the Estonian press. Our aim was certainly not to attract additional attention to Estonia internationally on this subject, so to speak, to domesticate a problem which, in addition to the activities of Estonia's supervisory authorities and the drafting of Estonia's own laws, still affected the home country of the parent bank and perhaps international money laundering rules in general. So the Ministry of Foreign Affairs played its part here, but probably not in a way that would have been particularly visible in the Estonian media. The migration agreement or the migration framework has been talked about for quite a long time in this Chamber. This was certainly an instructive story in many ways, I think, for our government and for our Parliament. When we look at the debate after the framework negotiations in several European countries, we see that it was very well synchronised campaigns to encourage fear that broke out not only in Estonia, and certainly not only affected the activities of the Estonian Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but they were present in almost all our neighbours. My role and that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was to take down unnecessary fears and aziotages because of the possible legal binding nature of this framework. I certainly want to congratulate all those members of the Riigikogu who were involved constructively and constructively in this debate. I certainly want to call on all political forces to be calm, restrained and rational in such debates in the future. Given the information landscape in which we operate in both our domestic and foreign policy activities, it is clear that such crises may also occur in the future. I believe that there is a great deal to be learned from this event, from this case also in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia and from the political forces represented here. I recall that when the debate on the migration treaty or the migration framework was launched in the Estonian Parliament, a rather resolute tone was called for this topic to be brought before Parliament, while when the statement supporting the migration framework finally arrived at the Riigikogu's proceedings, some political forces, including those who had first called for a parliamentary debate, wanted this topic to be removed from the parliament and the decision-making of the matter in the government. It is certainly to be seen as a sort of domestic policy game, which is still to be seen in the pre-election charged atmosphere, but which, in foreign policy and security matters, could, if possible, be avoided. As a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, Estonia is certainly a strong word; it is well prepared for this role. Estonia has been a very active and eloquent member state of the UN over the last 27 years. We have held a number of important positions there through our diplomats, we have a leading opinion on a number of important issues, of course in the cyber and digital fields, but not only on environmental issues, also on issues of women's and children's rights and, in fact, on the reform of the United Nations itself, in which Estonia has been part of a number of groups of initiatives for which quite important changes have already been made or at least a debate has been launched. A few examples. For example, the last process of electing the UN Secretary-General was much more open and inclusive than all of them, and Estonia has played a role in this. Estonia has supported initiatives concerning the reform of the Security Council, such as the principle that permanent veto members of the UN Security Council could refrain from using veto for resolutions on mass crimes, anti-humanity war crimes. So Estonia is definitely ready for this role. We are aware that we need to take positions on matters where our great allies may differ from us. Certainly, just as in the European Union and NATO so far, Estonia's aim in the UN and UN Security Council is to build consensus between countries that think alike, so that differences in one area do not become a negative influence on interoperability in other policy areas, such as the Baltic Sea region, which is critically important for us, and even in the European security issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U8	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! You cannot quite agree with what you said when you answered the honourable question of Arto Asa, that there was gambling during the debate on the so-called migration agreement. I think that the position that the government actually chose was the position of a government of convenience, which does not mean that Parliament could and could not discuss these issues, but the decision was formally not taken by the government. My question, however, relates to money laundering in a broader sense. Honourable representatives argued to the press a few days ago that there might be doubts about Danske's money laundering that the money that has moved into several money laundering, including this, could have been used for various forms of leverage until the results of the Brexit vote were influenced. Will the European Union and you personally feel that there will be more of this type of action in the future? In general, Europe has had this notion that 10 to 15 years ago was taken as a joke about our certain Russian fear, although, after the events in Georgia and Ukraine, our credibility increased. Do you feel that our expertise could help Europe wake up?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U10	Yeah, sure. But I come to the beginning or the introduction to your question. Undoubtedly, the government's failure to find consensus is bad. I certainly accept this criticism as a member of the government, although neither my party nor the party of the Prime Minister was certainly responsible for the fact that this consensus was not born. But it is also worthwhile for you to be critical not only of the government, but also of self-criticism in justified cases, because the conduct of your party was certainly not only consistent and not even based on Estonia's foreign policy interests, but also on the desire to weaken the sitting government. It cannot be blamed for the opposition in almost any policy area or issue, but it can be blamed for when it comes to foreign and security policy issues. As far as influence is concerned, it is undoubtedly an extremely serious issue. I believe that Estonia is, in a sense, better prepared than a large part of our partners and allies to counter leverage, although it is positive to note that the backwardness of our partners and allies in this area is decreasing rapidly. The efforts of recent years to intervene in democratic processes in democratic countries, including electoral campaigns, have certainly significantly raised awareness of the threat. It is clear that, in order to cope with this threat, much more resources must be put into this fight than, for example, the European Union is doing collectively now or, for example, NATO Member States are doing collectively. It is clear that the purpose of this influence is not only to support or help an appropriate or sympathetic political force from the point of view of one or another, perhaps from the point of view of a third country. The main aim of this influence, however, is to discredit democracy, parliamentary democracy, liberal democracy and, among our own residents, not only Estonia, but also, of course, among our allies and partners' voters and citizens, to undermine trust and build confidence in our own state power institutions and democratic processes. It is undoubtedly extremely dangerous. The informational landscape, which has become unknown, is certainly playing a role here, where such campaigns can be conducted secretly and the sources of their funding can be hidden. Estonia has also significantly enhanced cooperation with social media platforms, for example in the light of the forthcoming parliamentary elections, which, unfortunately, have played a pretty important role in such information and influence campaigns in the past. I think that the awareness of our citizens, as well as the'resistance' of society to influence activities carried out here by a number of channels, such as Sputnik or RT, is quite good, but there is certainly also a much more subtly, much harder to recognise, which we may not be quite immune to. Of course, cooperation with partners and a very close exchange of information are key here. Here, I think, we have taken a good step forward in recent years both bilaterally (our services and their partner services) and multilaterally (in the European Union, for example, targeted units have been set up to identify and oppose information operations, and NATO has improved its 'continuation awareness' and coordination).
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U11	Minister of Foreign Affairs, I hear you're getting a bit of a cough. Would you like a little break? We have over an hour to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U12	We can continue, I believe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U13	Okay. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! In your comprehensive presentation, you did not address the issue of Finno-Ugric cooperation, but the Committee on Foreign Affairs has regularly addressed this issue. My question first is: how do you appreciate the position of Finno-Ugric peoples, their culture and civil society in the Russian Federation? There was also a rather unpleasant case when representatives of our tribal movement invited Karelia's activist and linguist Aleksei Tsõkarev to visit, but he was not granted an Estonian visa. It has now been heard that one and the other European country has, however, let it cross its borders without experiencing any greater danger. Does the State Department have any explanation here, or can it come sometime? How do you feel about creating such artificial barriers for people who still carry a cultural and civil society mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U15	Thank you. A very important question. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, supporting Finno-Ugric peoples is one of the human rights priorities, has been for a long time, is today and will certainly be in the future. It is true that the 20-minute presentation inevitably contains more topics that cannot be addressed than those that can be addressed. It is therefore particularly good that you raised this issue. Estonia's representations in both the United Nations and Moscow and Riga try to participate, as far as possible, in organising events on Finno-Ugric topics and in promoting the culture and language of tribal peoples. Of course, our diplomats also visit the settlements of tribal peoples quite regularly. After all, tribal peoples, especially those living in Russia, are people who, like so many indigenous peoples, try to preserve their culture and language in relatively difficult circumstances. The countries can, of course, support and encourage this, and Estonia will do so in every way. Of course, this is not only a priority for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also other Estonian public authorities and NGOs are very important partners there. As regards the visa for Tykarev, I can say so much that every country, including Estonia, has the right to decide whether or not to grant admission without giving public justification. Of course, visa decisions are not made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs alone; it relies on the advice, recommendations and warnings of our other competent institutions and public authorities. These decisions are never made lightly. Of course, our tribal peoples living in Russia and their representatives are always welcome to visit Estonia, as evidenced by the large number of repeated visas. As has been said, such cases are certainly attracting attention, but they certainly do not reflect any broader trend, as if in any way they would suggest that our tribal representatives be prevented from visiting Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U16	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U17	Good chairman of the sitting! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! In recent times, in addition to the USA, Canada, Australia and New Zealand, many European countries have reported that they are not using the equipment of the Chinese company Huawei in the 5G infrastructure. European Commissioner for Digital, Andrus Ansip, has also said that Chinese technology companies are a concern that threatens the industry and security of the Union as a whole. What is Estonia's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U18	China is a technologically advanced and very rapidly developing country; it is also, in global terms, a very competitive manufacturing country, a rapidly growing economy compared to today's more advanced economies. We can certainly expect Chinese companies, like today, to participate in very different auctions and procurements in both the public and private sectors in the future. The task of the Estonian Government and our government authorities is to consider and ensure that procurement is in accordance with our own laws and European regulations and that, on the other hand, they do not involve any direct or indirect interference with the security interests of Estonia. It was perhaps such a comment on China, but we are working in the European Union to reach an agreement, and we are on the verge of this agreement to regulate the exchange of information between ourselves, within the European Union. As far as the background of foreign investment from third countries is concerned, it is important when we are talking here, for example, about developing networks, that in Estonia, companies that are registered in the Nordic countries, for example, may participate specifically in the development of new generation mobile networks, but who actually represent technology from third countries, which in turn may be critical for some kind of security considerations. So undoubtedly, on the one hand, China is an important partner for us, we are fully prepared and willing to cooperate very closely with China in political and economic terms. This issue certainly concerns not just one particular country, but all countries outside the European Union and NATO. We need to be very aware of the potential dependencies, the challenges and the disruptions to our security, which could, for example, result in one major investment or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have had a very interesting presentation. But I am going to ask you a few questions from the previous question, and also because I have prepared this question. I remembered that in 2012 the Riigikogu approved the document 'Estonian Opportunities and Interests in Asia until 2025'. At the time, this direction was considered to be very important. Some conclusions are likely to be made in 2025. However, there was no word in your presentation about the realization of these interests, although the issue of China, as well as the issue of investment, was now briefly addressed in relation to Huawei. Can you give us a little bit of clarification as to whether this strategy came up in any way last year or whether any of its points were realised?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U20	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U21	Thank you. The Asian direction is undoubtedly particularly important in our external economy. Our foreign representations in Asia, as well as the foreign representations in EAS South-East Asia, naturally work regularly, in a manner and consistently both to expand the export opportunities of Estonia in these regions and to include foreign investments, taking into account all the considerations that I briefly spoke about in reply to the previous question. Absolutely all strategy documents approved by the Riigikogu are a guide to the government in its day-to-day operation. In all competent formats, including the Government's Committee on Economic Development, the implementation of these strategies will be monitored and monitored and, if necessary, proposals will be made to correct trends, as it is clear that the situation in the external economy and external trade is also relatively dynamic. If, for example, we look at developments in global trade, we know that one of the major sources of tension is precisely the trade relations between the United States and China.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U22	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your presentation, you stressed the need to ensure independence and sovereignty in political decisions and policy-making. It's very important and right. I have a question, more specifically in the economic and monetary field, of political decisions on guaranteeing independence and sovereignty. As we know, the current government has not considered it necessary to collect domestic reserves in order to be prepared for possible future crises. The Ministry of Finance has told the National Audit Office, for example, that in a crisis situation it is possible to contact international resolution funds and other countries for loans. But, as we know, when other countries grant loans, they also set conditions, and that is why we give up sovereignty and independence in monetary and economic policy decisions. Is this the right way?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U24	Thank you. If, in a sense, we give up our economic sovereignty by borrowing loans from creditors, it can be said that Estonia is currently an exceptionally sovereign state in the European context, as the debt burden of our government is very, very low given the European average and also the indicative borders of Europe. With regard to the Ministry of Finance's estimates of the levels and necessity of the collection of reserves, I do not want to go very far here in the context of the foreign policy debate. It is undoubtedly true that Estonia will be hit by crises, not economic, political or security crises will ever hit us alone. If the Estonian economy gets into difficulties, it is mostly because the crisis is also hitting our important export partners or trading partners, because our economy is very much dependent on exports. It is clear that, in difficult times, the conditions that are ready to lend may also be less favourable for us than in other times. At the same time, as has been said, Estonia is a country with a very low loan burden, which places us in a fairly good position also in the eyes of potential lenders.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U25	March Sults, wherever you are.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You basically painted us a picture of an eternal country of fairy tale, that we have everything super good, super good, super good. But our war god, General Kert, has just told us that our cyber security, communication lines and all other things do not really work in a war situation, they are absolutely unsafe in a war situation, their cloaks are different. In the light of our own admiration, can we also go to Ukraine, where real warfare is taking place, to learn how to make cybersecurity as secure as possible? Is such a thing meant to be, or are we just living in a nice bubble we've painted ourselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U27	Thank you. You obviously didn't listen very carefully to my presentation, or you listened to something other than my report. I certainly did not paint the picture of Estonia as an ideal state. I said that we have a leader's position on a number of digital issues, as well as on cyber security, our expertise will be trusted, which does not mean that we have built everything perfectly in our country. There is no doubt that we have important domestic activities that continue to require resources and attention. For us, for example, Ukraine, you spoke about this as a priority partner for development cooperation; it is our biggest country of destination for development cooperation. Among other things, of course, we are working closely with Ukraine in the area of cyber security. Of course, no such relationship is one-way. By teaching and providing our expertise, we will, of course, also learn and engage with the expertise that our partners have. Also on the subject of exactly what the shielding of our communication cables is, I would not go further in the context of today's foreign policy debate. However, the competent ministers concerned are certainly prepared to provide precise and exhaustive answers to your questions in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U28	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I think you're living in some dead historical world. Like it or not, Donald Trump changed the world carelessly and brutally, but old conditions will never come back in two or six years. I heard your speech mostly longing for the old liberal hegemony, the return of power, but not a word about how to cope in this new world of interests and security. For example, how can we achieve that international organisations such as the European Union or the WTO are once again organisations promoting peace and fair trade relations, just as they were once created, but not ideological flagships of chastity and neoliberalism? What's your plan? How will Estonia cope as wisely, successfully and independently as possible in the new circumstances?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U30	Thank you. As I said in my introductory speech, we are certainly not looking for a way to manage as independently as possible in the sense that there is as little as possible of dependence between our allies and our partners. We're looking for close integration. We believe that, in the area of security in particular, it is almost always mutually beneficial for partners to cooperate closely. I do not believe, and in fact, no Estonian government has yet thought that even in trade relations, for example, there would be a zero-sum game, that what is useful to one party in a bilateral trade agreement must necessarily be harmful to the other. We believe that by promoting free trade in a fair way, it is possible to speed up or promote economic growth around the world. Clearly, unfair commercial practices continue to exist in the world. When you followed my presentation closely, you know that I stressed that, at times, the principles of free trade are being replaced by 'deal-based trade' and protectionist barriers. This is what I drew attention to, and these are certainly negative manifestations from our point of view. These protectionist moods are not only on one side of the Atlantic but, unfortunately, on both shores and not even in the transatlantic community, but in the wider world. Estonia, a small country with a very small internal market, was undoubtedly already critically interested in free trade opportunities, the possibility of exporting its products and services before joining the European Union. As a member of the European Union, we have undoubtedly benefited significantly from the possibility of operating under the European common market and the customs union, since the Member States of the European Union are also among our main or major trading partners, both for exports and imports. But despite the fact that it is the European Commission that is negotiating trade agreements on behalf of the European Union, we have also been at the forefront of free trade supporters in the European Union, and we continue to do so. I do not think that a multilateral, rule-based world order would have collapsed as a result of any specific elections in one country or another. This system, this time, as I said last year and repeated over this year, is under strong pressure, both from outside the free world and, unfortunately, from within our democratic countries. It needs and deserves protection, and I am convinced that it is protective and that we are not interested and willing to defend this rule-based world order at all alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U31	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U32	Thank you. Good waitress, Minister, thank you for your presentation. Since this is the last foreign policy debate in this House, I would first like to take this opportunity to say thank you to our diplomats and the External Action Service for their work over the last four years, and also to Parliament for their very good support. Now for your report. There was no mention of Russia, which is undoubtedly an interesting choice, given that it is the largest and most immediate unfriendly regime in our region. Let's think about it for a month, then a new parliament has been elected in Estonia. I think I am not mistaken when I say that, just as every time this time, different people appear completely unexpectedly, we call them specialists who make recommendations on what Estonia should do to make Russia and the Putin regime more comfortable. I ask you, for your part, to give some suggestions on what principles we should follow in the next four years when we are in contact with Russia and the Putin regime.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U33	Thank you. The reason why I did not dwell on my presentation in Russia is that, in my opinion, this is not a subjective assessment, but it is, I dare say, a well-informed assessment, the 'fundamentals' have not changed. Russia is a neighbour who has twice used military force against its neighbours over the last dozen years in order to achieve its political objectives. It's a very, very worrying pattern. We know that Russia has also made use of the opportunity to intervene militarily in areas far beyond its borders, so-called crisis and conflict, in order to achieve certain political objectives. This means that, on the one hand, we must take into account Russia's certain uncertainty, on the other hand, it is perfectly rational to say that the Putin regime is also a rational player in international relations, which calculates the consequences of its steps quite carefully. This means that it is still important for Estonia to protect its security and security through strong deterrence, i.e. by understanding that any provocations and aggressive acts against Estonia will find an immediate and vigorous response not only to Estonia but, in fact, to the entire allied community. We've done it. I talked about the structure and strengthening of allied relations for quite a long time. This is an issue that, even without mentioning our eastern neighbour, is directly pushing our eastern neighbour from aggressive politics. Of course, we also support our important partners, including the Eastern partners of the European Union, so that their resilience to any external intervention is as good as possible, whether it be information operations, economic pressure or something more genetic. If we have a parliament soon, for example, the presidential elections will begin at the end of March in Ukraine. Undoubtedly, our eastern neighbour's interest in the outcome and possible influence of these elections is perhaps even greater than the interest in interfering with the elections and democratic processes of the European Union and NATO allies. There is no doubt that our attention, together with the attention of our partners and allies, is also very, very important there. We have based our relations with Russia on the so-called five principles of the European Union; they remain relevant. These include, by the way, promoting people-to-people contacts, not just any restrictive measures and pressure measures designed to try to bring Russia back to the principles of international law. I think that as long as Russia's behaviour as a member of the international community does not change significantly so far neither our bilateral relations nor the European Union's relations with Russia can change very significantly in terms of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U34	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U35	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You repeatedly referred to strategic communication in your presentation. Years ago, when I had the honour of working as Director of Government Communications, preparations were made to strengthen the country's strategic communication. Today, eight strategic communication advisors are working at the government's communications office. How do you feel about how this team has done its job and what added value has it provided?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U36	Thank you. Strategic communication, of course, has many directions. The very important strategic communication branch is certainly also the one that is directed towards the state, and it certainly does not lie within the limits of my domain of government. Very many cross-cutting activities have been concentrated over the years under the State Chancellery, i.e. under the Prime Minister, and so has been done with strategic communication. That's right in itself. As far as international strategic communication, or communication of our interests, is concerned on the international stage, of course the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a very important role to play here. I think we have a professional and very ambitious team of men and women for this. Of course, our so-called strategic communication function, as well as most other external communication functions, exists in all our foreign representations. Of course, human resources set their limits, but I am pleased that we have also been able to share our expertise in strategic communication quite well with our Eastern partners, for example, in order to train the media and increase its awareness and professionalism, including the capacity of local media in a number of countries where this may not have traditionally been very high, and we have also improved the ability to oppose 'information operations' in these countries. I think that we are certainly on the road to this issue, given that, probably also in those years when you have been in Parliament, the information landscape has changed considerably, including the operations that we have to oppose in our actions, has become somewhat more complex and complicated. There is also a need to run very quickly in order to even stand still on this subject. I believe and I very much hope that we will be able to keep this focus even during the coming parliamentary and government working hours.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I come to foreign economic policy. Estonian entrepreneurs have repeatedly complained that they do not receive sufficient support from our diplomats. I am aiming not at the export direction, but I am asking more about Estonia's investments abroad, not in Estonia, but abroad. What is your assessment of how the Ministry has handled this course? What ideas are there to make this better?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U38	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U39	Thank you. As I said, foreign economic policy and foreign trade activities have been and continue to be one of the important priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Figuratively speaking, these priorities can be divided into three large groups: the promotion of our security interests, the promotion of our economic interests and the service of our citizens and all consular activities abroad. We have 40 bilateral diplomatic missions in the order of magnitude. We only have full-time economic diplomats in four foreign missions today, and the US embassy in Washington is a person who, apart from foreign economic affairs, also deals with digital and cyber issues. In fact, a large number of foreign missions are of so-called minimal size, which means two diplomats sent from Tallinn and two employees hired on two points. In such a case, at least one diplomat's duties shall include dealing with foreign economic matters. About ten years ago, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concluded an agreement between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, according to which in those countries and capital cities where there are EAS foreign representations, the EAS deals specifically with the issues of supporting our exports, as well as the issues of bringing investments to Estonia. This arrangement has worked pretty well. The financial possibilities of EAS have been considerably higher than those of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. True, not all of the EAS' large budget, or even the overwhelming part of it, are aimed at external activities, but this resource has helped to support our foreign economic interests quite significantly. We have reviewed this cooperation periodically, the EAS has developed its own stimulus package to make this work even more effective. Here, too, we have reached an agreement so that EAS for its part can support the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Our foreign affairs offices, embassies' foreign economic activities have increased year after year. There were more than 1700 requests from both the economic operators in the countries of destination and our own businesses, with which we have been contacted and to which answers have also been received last year. The feedback received during the economic diplomats' days has been mostly very positive. There are certainly companies which, for various reasons, have not received a satisfactory response. If our diplomats or their poor work are to blame for this, then there is no doubt that this work needs to be improved, but the vast majority of entrepreneurs who have cooperated with our foreign representations or have sought contacts, information, turned to queries are satisfied with the results. What else? It is certainly important that, if EAS, which has supported and fulfilled a very important part of this function, goes against the next budgetary perspective of the European Union, it is clear that its funding will shrink and that some of the activities carried out through EAS with external resources will have to be carried out by the Estonian taxpayer in the future. In this context, it is exactly the right time to discuss how to continue supporting foreign trade, whether to separate support for entrepreneurship from domestic support for entrepreneurship on going to foreign markets and to bring foreign trade entirely into the domain of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or to move forward with this solution, which is now when foreign trade and foreign economy are divided between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. They both have their pros and their cons. Helping Estonian entrepreneurs, Estonian investors, if they have sought to invest in foreign markets or the economy of our partner countries, has certainly not been the so-called primary function of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but if the expertise and information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our economic diplomats are helpful in establishing contacts, then of course cooperation will take place. But it has to be first and foremost, I believe, "order-based." We are certainly not looking for destination countries to invest in our businesses until we have a firm knowledge that there are investors who really want to invest in these countries and in specific areas or companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U40	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for both your presentation and your answer to the questions. In your presentation, you mentioned on several occasions that Estonia is a leader in the development of its digital economy. Since such digitality, technological innovation, as well as cyber security, has been reflected in the work of our foreign representations and in what place and with what meaning is our new and, apparently, very much needed multinational policy in the development of foreign representations?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U42	Thank you. In our foreign policy, the meaning of digital is growing. As I said, it has several dimensions. One is what we do to promote the digital economy, in particular, in our European Union policy. As we know, one of the priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is to support the data economy and the digital economy and to promote the free movement of information. The second issue is what we are doing to develop practical cyber security. Estonia is, to a very large extent, a country based on digital solutions in its national functioning. This is a major austerity measure for us, because digital solutions are usually cheaper than any alternative based on manpower and paper. At the same time, it is accompanied by certain vulnerabilities, no digital solution is 100% secure, but they are almost all much safer than alternatives, but it is necessary to work constantly to keep it safe. So it is vital for us too; it is not only an intellectual interest in protecting digital solutions from possible attacks, but it is a practical necessity to ensure the country's continuity of action. The third issue is, of course, the creation of international law, because we know that in the cyber world, national borders do not work in the same way as they do in the physical world, and therefore cross-border cooperation is also necessary and the creation of rules and international law crossing borders is very, very necessary. For the first time this year, we have also implemented a digital special representative in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who is dealing with these issues internationally. So this is a growing area of meaning. Of course, guaranteeing the security of our own information between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and foreign agencies is one of the continuous lines of work. There is certainly room for improvement here too, and the security of the information channels can certainly become much better than it is today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U43	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U44	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. But I want to talk about fascism. President Trump has said that he rejects the ideology of globalism and supports the doctrine of patriotism. Recently, the book 'Fascism' of the former American Foreign Minister, Albright, arrived at the counters. Warning. Its main hero happens to be President Donald Trump, behind him is Viktor Orbán, President Putin and others. By the way, there's Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini behind Trump. My question is whether you share the view of former Foreign Minister Albright that these are modern fascists and the 'fascist' countries are precisely the US, Hungary, Poland, Turkey, Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U45	Thank you. No. If that is the view expressed in this book, I certainly do not share that view. The countries you have mentioned are our important allies, many partners in the European Union. The American literary landscape is exceptionally rich and the letters, and political belletristics are also published there very, very much. Estonia does not adopt foreign policy views on literary works and does not shape its own foreign policy based on them. In general, I would be very critical of anyone who uses the concept of Nazism or fascism as a basis for some kind of comparison. I believe that such comparisons are almost exclusively inappropriately stigmatising and misleading. The crimes committed in Europe in the thirties and forties of the last century are unique in scale. It is almost never appropriate to illustrate today's political contradictions or ideological differences with such comparisons.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U46	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U47	Thank you. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! We talked a little about foreign trade, I would like to talk about foreign investment and the reputation of Estonia among our potential partners, foreign investors and also employees. We have two of these concerns that have come seriously on the agenda recently. First, labour migration. On 3 January, we were filled with a limit for outside workers. We cannot come with athletes, we cannot come with employees, because the government has not taken a position. Another problem is foreign investment. The Ministry of Finance has come up with the crazy idea that, for every foreign investment made from the European Union to Estonia, the investor should prove where he got his money. What is the position of the Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on these two issues, which are, I think, crucial to Estonia's reputation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U48	Thank you. As far as labour migration is concerned, we know that recent European political discourse has also sought to stigmatise migration as such at all and to say that all migration is bad and harmful and should be avoided and prevented in every way. Undoubtedly, in labour migration, which helps to grow the Estonian economy, when workers coming to Estonia create significant added value, are highly qualified and work in sectors that are driving economic growth, I see nothing negative. Our immigration policy has been quite conservative for years, in fact decades, for good reasons, including historical reasons. But certainly such labour migration, which is in the interest of economic growth in Estonia, should be looked at and also discussed politically separately, for example, from dealing with illegal mass immigration. So I believe that you and I will be able to come to an agreement on this matter. Whether in today's political, pre-election atmosphere it is possible to find consensus in the government, in which I am not overly optimistic, but certainly this is again one of the places that maybe in a less-charged political situation after the elections it is possible to have a more constructive debate. As far as investment is concerned, some of the previous issues in today's debate have been focused, for example, on money laundering issues. It is certainly important to know the origin of the large money that travels across borders. So I believe that it is important that our own rules are well in place here, that we comply with our own laws, and also with international rules, which specifically concern the fight against money laundering, because we certainly do not want to see investments in our economy that have a dim background. Is it possible to cross the border? I'm sure it is. But, as we know, it is also possible to be too trusting in the other way and not to ask critical questions. This too should certainly be avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U49	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U50	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good minister! There are four paragraphs in your written presentation that can be read about NATO membership as our priority, which is undoubtedly the case. But is that the case, or in the meantime, are we taking a small eye on the idea of the European Union's own army?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U51	Thank you. As I said in my speech, all these initiatives, such as the European initiative on strategic autonomy, which has been quite emotionally spoken, must not call into question the primary nature of the transatlantic ally for our security. When we are talking about ensuring the security of Estonia and our region, defending ourselves against external military threats, nothing we do in other international organisations, including the European Union, must be called into question by the operation of the NATO Treaty article on common defence. This does not mean that joint defence initiatives by the European Union could not have added value for what NATO is doing. If you ask me personally, I will say that I do not believe in the idea of a common European army, for many reasons I have never believed. But I believe in European cooperation in the field of defence, for example in research and development, as well as in the added value of common European initiatives when they concern the movement of cross-border entities, military mobility. They certainly have considerable added value. If the promotion of European defence cooperation results in more Member States of the European Union being able to fulfil their commitment to defence expenditure, then it is certainly positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! When representing Estonia abroad and helping our citizens, it is certainly essential that we have a strong network of so-called representative offices in order for the aid to be effective and also operational. We have launched an e-residency programme, which has undoubtedly been very successful, but the e-residency programme also significantly increases our need for consular services and these volumes have increased. We know that the e-residency programme has already come to the point that we are no longer able to meet this need and realise the potential of e-residency. You have presented a proposal to the Government of the Republic to develop a new external policy development plan until 2030, which leads to my question, which will be proactive for a long time. How do you see the network of e-Estonia's representations, in addition to the two representations that you have already mentioned that they are to be opened? Is this network more expanding, or are we pulling something together?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U53	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U54	Thank you. If we look back in history, we will see that we have gone through several phases in the development of our network of foreign representations. Of course, after the restoration of Estonia's independence, when we started to rebuild the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a sense, even though the External Action Service and the foreign representatives, of course, also worked and carried on legal continuity through the occupation period, it was also clear that a large part of the democratic world was never recognised or recognised, that the network of our offices expanded very quickly, that we opened up a large number of new representations. Before the major economic crisis, we had already reached the stage where the expansion of the network of representations slowed down and we decided to open some representations at the expense of the so-called internal reserves, without providing for the necessary resources in the long term. Several of our foreign missions actually fell short of the so-called critically necessary capabilities, i.e. their human and financial resources, were so limited that they actually spent a large part of their resources on their own operation and could not deal with their primary function of representing security and economic interests and providing consular services. We have reached the phase where we have defined the'minimum capacity' that one foreign representation must have. Of course, in the major capitals and with the major partners, our foreign missions are much larger, but we know the minimum capacity that I described in one of the previous responses. If, after the crisis, we were forced to tighten up this network, we remember that our embassy in Brazil, as well as our Consulate General in Shanghai, was closed by the decision of an earlier government, then we have now reached the stage where we have been able to foresee a sustainable resource in budgetary negotiations and discussions on the country's budgetary strategy in order to open up new foreign representations. The budget strategy approved last year has a resource for three new foreign missions, one of which, the embassy in Budapest, is already open, the other, the embassy in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, hopefully will be opened this summer. For the third, the activities are also under way, which concerns our Consulate General on the west coast of the United States. The latter two have, to a very large extent, focused precisely on promoting our foreign economic interests. Of course, when it comes to e-residency, the responsible government body is not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plays a pretty important role in communicating with e-residents and maintaining this network, especially in issuing documents or cards to e-residents. This means an increasing burden on our consular diplomats. There is a plan to switch to a large extent to external service providers. This is the solution that many countries use to issue their own documents. For this solution, the responsible governmental authority is the Ministry of the Interior. This process has been slower than expected. In order to ensure that the burden on our consular diplomats does not increase over the head and, as a result, does not suffer from the service of our own citizens, we have asked for and, fortunately, have also received additional funding during the last budget negotiations. But I think the sustainable solution here is the transition to an external service provider. I hope that all the practical problems and concerns about the security that the Ministry of the Interior has had so far will be answered and resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In the Mediterranean, the European Union's only military mission is to control illegal migration, EUNAVFOR. As we know, due to differences between countries, the mission has now been extended for only three months. What are the opportunities for European countries to reach a common position so that the operation can continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U56	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U57	Thank you. Indeed, there is a European Union country outside the Mediterranean that has expressed its concern in the discussions on EUNAVFOR MED that its partners in Europe do not show sufficient solidarity with them on migration issues as a whole. This has made it somewhat difficult to find consensus to extend this mission. However, no mission is endless, and most of it is not timeless either. In fact, the consensus that the European Union will be able to act on its foreign and security policy initiatives must be created and maintained on an ongoing basis. We are used, for example, to the fact that the restrictive measures imposed on Russia due to aggression against Ukraine and illegal annexation of Crimea last for many years, while we know that they are not time-barred, their extension and, if necessary, their extension must be subject to constant diplomatic talks. So the work to maintain and create this consensus is ongoing. This is the way the European Union works, it also gives countries an emergency brake on many issues, which certainly should not be used lightly. It is certainly not a good thing to have a direct impact on the EUNAVFOR mission, but is a more general remark and is not favourable to effective and solidarity-based cooperation between allies and partners, if countries, whether they are Member States of the European Union or NATO Member States, are to use their bilateral relations to block some kind of common policies or initiatives. This is certainly something that we are critical of, and I believe that there is also a critical majority of the European and transatlantic community. However, this final remark does not specifically concern EUNAVFOR MED.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U58	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U59	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! When will the government of the Republic of Estonia find consensus and end the retranslation of television channels against the pro-Empire and Estonian statehood on the territory of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U60	Thank you. To be honest, I have not been involved in discussions on this issue, and I do not know that there would be any major differences in the Government of the Republic on this issue, so that it was as if one of the government partners had wished to shut down the translation of some television channels and the other would have opposed it. Maybe I'm a little under-informed about something, but I haven't heard such rumors in my ears. As regards opposition to hostile influence, propaganda, also the question of television or radio channels or other information channels, Internet portals that spread false news or hostile propaganda, it is undoubtedly a challenge, but the governments of the Republic of Estonia have not so far wished to go this way to restrict the availability of television channels or to start censoring the media. It is true that there are certain information channels that, according to the classification of democratic countries, do not deserve the name of the media at all, and Estonian authorities have largely abandoned their requests for such information channels or interviews. I think that the best way to face up to this kind of hostile influence is to make sure that all the lies distributed and deformities must be overturned immediately and on a factual basis, point 2, to make objective and factual information available to all people in Estonia regardless of their place of residence, mother tongue, age or other. Despite this famous metaphor, according to which the lie has circled the world before the truth gets its pants on, I believe that, in a strategic sense, the truth still has considerable advantages over false information and is victorious, but it also requires, of course, our wisdom and sufficient resources to dominate this information-based battlefield. But since I do not see any more questions, I take the liberty of thanking the Riigikogu for its pleasant cooperation at the end of answering your questions, thanking the Committee on Foreign Affairs, colleagues who have contributed to the debate on foreign policy and certainly will also contribute in the future, and of course their predecessors in this position, who have been entirely three or four during this parliamentary period. I'm looking at Kid right now, and I think there's really been four of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U61	Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs. As Chair of the sitting, I consider it my duty to thank you for your work, your presentation today and your answer to questions. A compliment to your cough, which allowed you to complete your appearance with dignity. Next, I call Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U62	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Last summer, a memorial of the victims of communism was opened in Maarjamäe, Tallinn. It is dedicated to more than 75,000 people in Estonia who were murdered, imprisoned or deported during the harsh years of their destiny in 1940-1991. Silently, we can also add to it the more than 600 victims of red terror who lost their lives at the hands of the Bolsheviks in the days of the War of Independence or the December riot of 1924 organised by the Soviet Union. We immediately embraced this wonderfully successful memorial and rarely did so in a visible consensus. The silent names of thousands of people who have died on the black stone do not leave anyone dear to whom the Republic of Estonia is independent. This memorial has multiple meanings at the same time. One of them also directly concerns our discussion today about Estonia's place in the world. We must not forget for a moment that the security and independence of Estonia require literally care and love from us every day. It is our duty to do everything in our power that the Estonian people should never again suffer under the yoke of foreign power. In September, we visited Eastern Ukraine with a delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The picture that opened up to us near the front line was depressing. The war that has lasted for five years has not actually subsided for a day. More than 10,000 people have lost their lives in it. It is also a warning that many Europeans tend to forget or are not even aware that there is a war in Europe. Even Federica Mogherini, the head of the European Union's foreign policy, has never considered it necessary to visit Eastern Ukraine and thus draw attention to the most threatening problem of peace in the continent. Estonia is well aware of how much is at stake in Ukraine for both our future and the future of Europe as a whole. At the beginning of December, the Riigikogu made a statement in support of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in connection with the aggression in the Kerch Strait. In our statement, we stressed that the only solution for achieving lasting peace is the end of Russia's aggression against Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, The 100-year-old Republic of Estonia is the best example of how major changes in the world affect the way of one small country and nation in time and space. All the fatal moments of our history have been linked to international shocks. Whether these are major wars in Europe or the collapse of the Soviet Empire, all of them have tested Estonia's foreign policy capacity and leadership's ability to make the right choices under difficult circumstances. In the Riigikogu debates, we have talked more and more about the challenges facing Estonia's foreign policy in the face of the great change in the world. The debate today is no exception. It seems that the rules and principles established by the winners of World War II are increasingly getting in the way of time. At the moment, however, there is no definite answer to the question of whether it is prepared to accept inconsistencies and make adjustments to the world order without major conflicts, which would allow the ambitions of the great powers to be taken into account and solutions to global problems to be found. It is important for Estonia that internationally agreed rules and principles remain the top priority in curbing the ambitions of the great powers in the world of the break age. For us, it is existentially important that the idea of a united Europe survives the supposed increase in pressure from both Brexit and Eurosceptic populists. There is simply no alternative to the European Union of the nation states, which work closely together and have a strong common role, when Russia tries to expand its borders using military force and China's goal is to become a global leader. In spring, NATO celebrates its 70th birthday. The peace in Europe only confirms the important role played by the Washington Treaty and its Article 5 in today's world. The meaning of collective protection has not changed, and Estonia's commitment to maintaining a common value and allied space is a central issue of our foreign policy. Unfortunately, for the first time since World War II, there are dangerous doubts and tensions in the Western Allied space which, at worst, could lead to the demise of transatlantic cooperation or even the breakdown of NATO. Although NATO Member States are increasing their defence costs, the tensions in diplomatic relations are disrupting smoother cooperation. These include the differences between France and Italy in recent weeks, the constant focus of tensions in relations between Turkey and the US, the dreams of Europeans of strategic autonomy, or the alleged thought games of US President Donald Trump on withdrawal from NATO. NATO's history has seen tensions between its members in the past, but still the will to maintain external security threats has been overcome by the successful deterrent principle of collective protection. Even now that NATO is expanding again as it becomes a member of Northern Macedonia, the western world, which loses its relative influence globally, is not wise to break up a well-functioning defence alliance. Rather, European and American leaders should reject personal offenses and work to strengthen allied relations, increase deterrence on NATO's eastern wing and revive trade talks for the creation of a transatlantic free market. The success of the European Union in concluding free trade agreements and their positive impact on growth and job creation confirms that they can give a new impetus to international trade. The free trade agreement between the European Union and Japan, which entered into force on 1 February, is another historical sign of this new world of trade rules. Estonian entrepreneurs have only to win from these developments. Ladies and gentlemen, The dynamics of international relations require the Estonian External Action Service to continuously increase professionalism and the state to channel a greater resource into diplomacy than to the front line of defending our national interests. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has held 30 hearings since January last year, during which the current situation of the Estonian External Action Service has been considered and researched what additional work should be done to strengthen diplomatic capabilities. In the course of the hearings, an analysis was commissioned from the International Centre for Defence Studies, which was presented to the public at a seminar held in the Riigikogu at the end of last month. Our discussions were consciously timed down with the preparation of a foreign policy development plan at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A number of issues already addressed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have already reached the executive desk, such as the drawing up of a strategy for honorary consuls or decisions in the field of business diplomacy. Allow me to highlight the five most important topics discussed in the conclusions and recommendations to the government, which emerged from the hearings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and from the analysis of the International Centre for Defence Research. First, the design and implementation of Estonia's foreign policy should become more purposeful. The new coalition government, which will be in office after the forthcoming parliamentary elections, could introduce an agenda to be updated every two years to implement the external policy agenda. This could include measurable foreign policy objectives for any country of vital importance. Secondly, the fragmentation of foreign economic policy and business diplomacy should be brought to an end and the relevant government agencies and support measures should be brought together under a coherent political leadership. One of the options here is the creation of the Foreign Trade Minister's office in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He could also be in charge of development cooperation. Thirdly, the External Action Service is strong, professional and ambitious when diplomats themselves are motivated and the support services necessary for their work are well managed. This requires professional human resource management and better planning of diplomats' careers. Career diplomacy has fully justified itself in Estonia and it must remain so. At the same time, the External Action Service could be more open to professionals from different fields who could be involved in a rotating public-public competition. Why not allow temporary entry into the External Action Service also for private sector representatives meeting qualifications requirements? Fourthly, the implementation of an active foreign policy requires better budgeting and a political agreement is needed to ensure stable funding. The budget share of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the state budget could be around 1% or around 0.35% of GDP. In recent years, there has been a fall in funding in these ratios. Finally, fifthly, the strategic communication of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be constantly strengthened and modernised both in public diplomacy and in the domestic clarification of foreign policy decisions. Strengthening the External Service is essential if Estonia wishes to be internationally ambitious in defending its security and economic interests. In any case, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has contributed to raising awareness of bottlenecks and finding a greater political common ground. Now the government has the sequel. Ladies and gentlemen, The work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu focused on another important report in the last year, 'Preparation to crowd out interference in elections on the example of Western countries', led by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, vice-president of the committee. The application of influence and disinformation as foreign policy tools has a long history. The special services of our neighbouring Russia, whose continuous experience dates back to the century, are particularly skilled in this area. The deployment of disinformation as a tactical leverage weapon became clearer as early as 1923 when Józef Unszlicht, Deputy Head of the GPU, launched a dedicated disinformation unit to conduct active intelligence operations. Unszlicht saw in the disinformation an excellent opportunity for successful diversions and influence in Western open societies. Disinformation, as a successful leverage, reached a new level, especially during the KGB director Yuri Andropov's time in the late 1960s. Andropov himself said, "Definition is like cocaine. If you smell it once or twice, it may not change your life. But when you see it every day, it makes you dependent, you become another person. ' The most important thing, however, is to realise that nothing changed, unfortunately, with the collapse of the Soviet Union. The KGB was reorganized and dismembered, but the tasks remained broadly similar to those of the past. The bulwark against the Western space of value and security persisted. For example, in the book Comrade J, published in 2007, Pete Earley, Russia's high intelligence officer, from the United Nations in 2000, is opening an oversurge through the story of Sergei Tretyakov, how Moscow continued its active espionage and influence against the United States even in the most friendly 1990s. In the book Tretyakov, among other things, says thought - provokingly: 'I want to warn the Americans. As people, you are very naive about Russia and its intentions. You think Russia is now a friend after the break-up of the Soviet Union. It's not like that, and I can show you how the SVR is trying to destroy the United States today. Even more so than during the KGB's Cold War. ' I went a little further in the history of the implementation of disinformation to dispel doubts, as if the Committee on Foreign Affairs were trying to muzzle the critics of the government or Parliament with its report. The aim of our work was, above all, to point to these gaps in the practice of our daily consumption of information, legislation or international cooperation, which will enable hostile influence to reach its goal more easily. This is a serious and growing threat to open societies like Estonia. In the social media era, influence has taken on a scale that no one has experienced before. The first starting point for strengthening the psychological safety net of society is to raise awareness of influence and the means used to do so. The report also achieved this objective. It is now important that the new composition of the Riigikogu continues with the topic and either find legal solutions to fill existing gaps or simply introduce better practices. Ladies and gentlemen, Is our foreign policy democratic enough? So Piret Kuusik, Research Fellow of the Estonian Institute of Foreign Policy, asked at the recent seminar of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. He was thinking in particular of the experience we all acquired last year during the discussions on the migration agreement. While monitoring the activities of the outgoing government over the last few weeks, however, there is a really slight confusion as to how our executive power is still implementing foreign policy. There are strange disputes before the public between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, which could have stayed at the table of the Government. At the moment, it seems that Jüri Ratas' government has several foreign policies at once. I can assure you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has always placed an open and democratic debate on all foreign policy issues that are important to us. The role of Parliament in shaping foreign policy is very important, because it is in this way possible to explain in the best way to the people of Estonia why we make such choices. Finding a strong joint role in shaping Estonia's foreign policy does not mean that parties do not have different opinions on individual issues. At the same time, Estonia's foreign policy has so far been dominated by an overwhelming attitude to continuity, trust and predictability. It has brought us success, and it must continue to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U63	A round of questions of half an hour will be opened by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! My question is very simple. How united do you consider Estonian foreign policy to be? I mean that the ministers of the Government of the Republic are probably not discussing matters in the office, but they are debating each other on the columns of the press, and at times there is the impression that we have more than one foreign minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U65	Thank you, good Andres! As I said in the final phase of my speech, I think what we have seen in recent weeks through the media is somewhat rare. I can't remember the last time the ministers of one government openly argued about foreign policy issues in this way, whereas the key to Estonia's success has always been that we have resolved our differences at the table and come up with a unified and understandable position. It has also been, as I said, very obvious and clear practice in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Over the years, we have had topics that have perhaps been more sensitive in foreign policy terms, have had different starting points or also visions of how Estonia could act on one issue or another. Certainly, let us say, in the near future, such foreign policy issues have been undoubtedly Estonia-Russian relations and, above all, issues related to the border treaty. But here, too, we have always achieved such an attitude that, in this Parliament, the vote is, as is appropriate in a democratic country, or that the coalition government has reached an agreement on what priorities to implement in foreign policy. But here, unfortunately, the approaching elections are also likely to have an impact, so it is not on the conscience of every member of the government that he does in Estonia's foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U66	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Surely energy security is also part of foreign policy. However, there has been quite a lot of talk recently about the fact that several European countries are making strategic decisions on their national energy consumption based on the fact that some of the burden could be borne by our neighbours. Some experts who have been skeptical have said that this could lead to a situation where everyone is counting on their neighbours and at one point everyone is losing energy security. Could such an informed rapid or hasty transition to renewable energies and also the abandonment of certain nuclear power not make us even more dependent on so-called Russian energy, talking here about Nord Stream 2? Are these issues now very clearly focused and discussed so that there are no solutions in individual countries that paralyse the whole system?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U68	Thank you. This is really a very important theme circle. Energy security has been one of the most important components of national policies in the wider field of external security for many years. This has been raised over and over again when there are more critical moments in energy consumption, energy concerns, nuclear safety issues or, for example, in climate policy, how to balance traditional energy sources with renewable energy sources. It's a very wide range of diamonds. I have to say that this experience, which I have also developed in international cooperation with colleagues, first and foremost at European Union level, is that, when we look at what has been achieved today, compared to the time when Estonia just joined the European Union, there have been very many very important investments. We take Estonia from our own perspective. We are no longer considered to be an energy island, we have established connections with our neighbours, especially in the field of electricity. We have a very important project in our work on security to disconnect electricity networks from the Russian electricity grid and connect to the frequencies of Central Europe. This is undoubtedly one of the key issues in the coming years. This is, again, feasible largely thanks to the support of the European Union. However, there was also a perfectly legitimate criticism of how united the Member States of the European Union still see the issues that can now or in the future play a disservice for Europe's energy security, and certainly the issue of Nord Stream 2, which has been a very hot topic of debate in recent days in relations between Europe's most important countries, such as Germany and France, where, at first, a compromise has been found to a certain extent on how to deal with this second pipeline by Nord Stream, which is being established in the Baltic Sea. I think you can still see more progress here. Of course, it is difficult to imagine that such a common energy policy could be created at European Union level in the near future, with different countries, let us say, the sources on which they have built their own internal energy security, but still this awareness of these threats is much higher today than it was perhaps years ago. I think that the diversification of the entire energy portfolio, from renewable energy elements to, for example, more implementation of liquefied gas to guarantee Europe's energy security, is also an issue which, I believe, could also be at the forefront of discussions between our new government and the Riigikogu, because this issue of oil shale energy will not come out of our discussions anytime soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U69	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs! You mentioned the need, at the very least, to raise the starting point for drawing up the Honorary Consuls' strategy. What is the objective of this strategy, and what are the reasons that make another strategy necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U71	Thank you, good Krista! That is a really good question. This is one example I gave in the speech of how good cooperation between the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has actually led us to make the best use of the resources available in our foreign policy, above all human resources. Estonia is a small country and it is not possible for us to establish our representative offices in all countries of the world, so we rely very much on the work done by the honorary consuls. We have around 200 of them, almost in all regions of the world. We just need to understand better how their work is organised. Understandably, this is a voluntary commitment to defending Estonia's interests. But the criteria on the basis of which we accept honorary consul candidates are undoubtedly important, including how we assess their work to one degree or another, how we inform them, what information field we keep them in, to what are the most important areas we expect honorary consuls to do. If we have been talking for years about Estonia defending its foreign economic interests much better than it has done so far, and with the help of people such as honorary consuls to promote these interests, this is one of the themes on which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs hopefully has carried out an internal analysis by the beginning of the summer, and then there is also a better idea of how to make better use of existing human resources. But I have to say, having met Estonian honorary consuls in many countries of the world, Estonia is still very and very lucky. We have very many very good, very high-level Estonian flag carriers all over the world, who do this work, as I said, voluntarily, of their own good will. This is also a very important contribution to the promotion of Estonia's foreign policy interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U72	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U73	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Commission! You are in your presentation, at least in all things in the real world, although many solutions to deal with the problems of this world are, to put it mildly, doubtful. But you also talked about a world based on values and rules. What are the values and rules according to which Estonia reacts sharply to every fall of a pen in Russia, but if the United States supports the horrors of the Saudis in Yemen, then we are quiet and stunned?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U74	Thank you, good Oudekki! After all, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, you have seen that we really live in the real world. All the discussions that we have had in the Commission are caused by the events and developments that take place on the international stage and affect us, and are designed to shape Estonia's positions and positions. This is undoubtedly a very important issue. You touched Saudi Arabia, but there are more examples. We have also discussed internal developments in our very important ally country, Turkey. We have discussed the events that are taking place in Venezuela. We have discussed a number of other important issues, including when we visited Geneva last year, met with representatives of UN organisations and discussed how, in international relations today, we still defend people's rights, the same universal rights. It is extremely important that we do not turn a blind eye to offences that are obvious, which are contrary to all international standards, no matter how important we are to each other. If there is too much hypocrisy in foreign policy, it is certainly a threat to countries like Estonia, which, as a small country, is dependent precisely on the credibility of these rules, the validity of contracts and the persistence of agreements.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U75	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As I recall, you were one of the key players when a strategy was drawn up about the opportunities and interests of Estonia in Asia until 2025. Now, if you look back on the seven years that have passed and think about what lies ahead until 2025, how do you think this strategy has come true so far? How does this rapidly changing world, as we often say here, affect the whole strategy paper? Does it require any significant changes? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U77	Thank you, good Urve! A very important question. This example comes from the previous composition of the Riigikogu. Indeed, in 2011 in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we launched a debate on what the activities of Estonia could be, bearing in mind the undoubtedly and fairly fast-growing role of China and other Asian countries in the global economy, in world politics. In 2012, the Commission's report on the Asian strategy really came up with a series of recommendations to the Government of the Republic, including that Estonia could be a more active defender of foreign economic interests in these countries and regions. But above all, there was the recognition that Asia and China's role in the global economy, world politics, is a growing trend that we must constantly pay attention to and we must have answers to the questions that arise. Secondly, we need to create opportunities for our entrepreneurs, for example, through a contractual base and active diplomatic activity. What has happened during this period, these seven or eight years? Once again, it is very important that there is a connection between Estonia's membership in the European Union. We have won a great deal of it, after all, that we have, to some extent, surrendered part of our sovereignty in order for international trade agreements to be concluded with the European Commission. The European Commission has done a good job during this period precisely to expand the possibilities for our trade with a number of Asian countries to grow. I would like to remind you, in my speech, that it was only on 1 February that the free trade agreement entered into force between the European Union and Japan. There are more than 120 companies in Estonia that export to Japan. It is being exported around EUR 70 million a year, and I am absolutely convinced that exports will increase there over the next few years. An example here is also the increase in trade between Estonia and South Korea. This has doubled since the entry into force of the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and South Korea in 2015. In recent years, there has been a very clear increase in activity in relations between Estonia and China, especially in changing licenses and trade restrictions or barriers, in agreeing or obtaining licences from the Chinese Government, as well as in removing barriers to our trade. Of course, there is still work to be done here. After all, earlier questions have raised issues that we need to keep in mind. I know that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very seriously analysing Asian policy, including Chinese policy. So the fact that we should contribute more towards Asia is quite clear. A very positive example in the context of the implementation of the Asia Strategy is the cooperation of our universities in addressing Asian issues. An international conference on Asia will be held in Tartu in May of this year, which is carried out primarily by the University of Tartu, but also by the Enterprise Estonia and our other universities. It is planned to make this conference regular, more than two years in progress, bringing together political and economic experts from Asia and Europe. Perhaps another topic that I think is important to mark here. I mentioned Estonia's foreign representations. We do not, of course, have the capacity to build them in many countries of the world, but one country to which, in my opinion, after the elections to the Riigikogu, the government could seriously consider establishing a representative office in this regard, in my opinion, also has a broader consensus and understanding, is South Korea. It is the most innovative country in the world. As I mentioned, trade with South Korea has doubled in recent years. Our southern neighbours have established an embassy there many years ago, and they have, through it, precisely boosted trade. However, the most important thing is that people's relations, as well as the implementation of the ideas that exist internationally within such an innovation network, are important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U78	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U79	Good manager! Good waitress! You say that in the last few weeks you have had a bit of a mix-up in order to have a number of foreign policies in Estonia. But I thought it was a mess at the end of November, we had, like, three different foreign policies. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and his party clearly supported the migration agreement, the Minister of Justice and his party opposed it, as Chairman of your Committee on Foreign Affairs and your party, the Reform Party, you acted in a third way. The Reform Party didn't take a stand just in case and left the room, so did you. What is your position, then, if there are now three foreign policy lines on this migration agreement? Are you in favour of this migration agreement or are you not in favour of it? Give it to me straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U80	Thank you. First of all, I mentioned the last few weeks in my speech, but these topics really go a little further. We did indeed see indecisiveness at government level, and the Minister also admitted in his speech that the government did not actually make a substantive decision on this issue, because there were clear differences between the coalition and political parties. This is a very bad precedent, which was created when the statement of the Riigikogu was used as a political technique to maintain a government that is drawn in different directions in foreign policy, as we have seen in recent days on the basis of discussions between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. If you add here that the Central Party agreement with the Putin Party is still in the closet somewhere, there will be even more of these questions. With regard to the migration agreement, the Committee on Foreign Affairs had a very clear opinion in this context: this issue must be brought before us for the discussion of the Commission, I stress, in order to get an overview of what the government has done since the spring, after the so-called prepositions were agreed (although, as we remember, there were different positions at the level of the government, the same ministers), what are the activities of the government and Estonia with the 23 topics agreed in July at the level of the United Nations Member States on the content of the migration document, what Estonia's activities have been or what are to be done in relation to this issue. The focus on this whole issue also went to the government that it is not legally binding, as if it is not an important agreement at all, but we have seen that the debate on this issue in this very Chamber lasted eight hours. You're asking for the opinion of the Reform Party. The Reform Party had a very clear and unambiguous understanding: we must not create a precedent in this Chamber on an issue as important as the issue of migration was, foreign policy decisions are being taken into government on a proposal from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the government must take a decision on these matters, even if one party disagrees with it in the context of the coalition. There have also been government-level votes in the past, but the government has made decisions. That was our position. As regards the issue of migration, the migration agreement and other international agreements affecting international relations, it is clear that migration issues cannot be dealt with individually by each country. Yes, of course, every state has a sovereign right to was, and that is also for the Estonian state to decide who we are letting into our country and on the basis of which rules and criteria. But these concerns and problems, which have forced millions of people in Africa, the Middle East or somewhere else in Asia to leave their homes and seek refuge elsewhere, are linked to climate change or conflicts, or are other causes, can only be resolved through international cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U81	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U82	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Chairman! Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs have information that there will soon be a meeting of the presidents of the Committee on Foreign Affairs in Norway on food security and climate security. Maybe you could introduce it in a few words. In particular, this issue of food security is not very common in our security debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U83	Thank you, good Barbie! Indeed, this information is true that very well-functioning cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic Foreign Affairs Committees and the leaders of the Foreign Affairs Committee can indeed continue next month in Bergen, Norway. Our rules of procedure have traditionally been in place since 2003 to meet twice a year on the basis of rotation, and the host country, the host country, proposes the agenda for the meeting. Indeed, this time our ladies and gentlemen from Norway have brought to the fore two very important global rounds. One concerns the global situation of the oceans in relation to global warming. Norway cares very much, but I believe that it is very important that we too understand this area and share information on it. Food security is certainly also a global issue crossing borders. The quality of food, including food shortages, food waste and all the issues at the end of it, also concern international security, because we know that if, for example, there are shortcomings or limitations in the availability of food, this could lead to very serious conflicts and migration, as I mentioned earlier. The importance of international cooperation and humanitarian aid is very important here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U84	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! Estonia and Brexit. Thousands of Estonian people are known to work, study and live in Britain. What happens to them after Brexit, what are the positions of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here? I can still ask the second question, although I do not think it is exactly appropriate. Is the European Union not prepared to open an agreement on any point in the negotiations with Britain in order to allow Britain to leave more painfully?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U86	Thank you, good Ain! At the end of the round of questions, such an interesting topic that could be discussed for a very long time. Brexit is expected to take place on 29 March. How this is happening, whether it is happening, is an open question for British politicians, above all, to this day. We have not yet received clear answers. As far as I know, the British Parliament will reconvene tomorrow to discuss the same treaty of departure. As we know, there have also been very mixed signals at political level. Unfortunately, like Parliament, British society, unfortunately, has been divided on this issue for years, and these effects are likely to continue on British internal policy and also on wider influence, no matter what solution comes this year on Brexit. The worst solution for us would certainly be to leave Britain without an agreement. It was only a few days ago that information came about that, should this really happen, that Britain would leave without agreement, then, above all, economic relations and trade relations would be quite chaos. This would particularly affect these companies, among others in Estonia, who export their products mainly to Great Britain. This analysis pointed out that it would affect about 600000 jobs across Europe, in particular Germany, more than 100000 jobs in France, 50000 jobs in France, but I believe that it would also affect jobs in Estonia. I know that there are companies that are looking at it with great concern, because their main export market is in Britain. I know a company in Haljala, for example, but there may be many other places. They may have a serious problem if the situation reaches the point where Britain really leaves the European Union without an agreement. The position of the European Union, the position of the 27 Member States, including Estonia, is clear: Britain is a European country, Great Britain is our very important ally, we want relations with Britain as close as possible as possible, understood by agreement, in all areas, above all as regards our people working, studying, living in Britain, but also as regards the stay of their citizens in Estonia or elsewhere in the European Union. The reopening of the agreement does not, in my view, solve the problem in which Britain's internal policy has unfortunately played its part over these years. So, as I said, opening up the treaty itself is out of the question here. After all, it is only a question of what are the political declarations around it, through which we can express our views on what the future relationship between the European Union and Britain could be. But I do not think there are any final answers to all these questions today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U87	That's a very precise ending. Thank you, Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Honourable Riigikogu, before we enter into negotiations, we need to decide on procedural matters, assessing our wishes to participate in the negotiations. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to extend the working time of today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14. Please take a stand and vote. There were 27 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, one against and no abstentions. The plenary session of the Riigikogu has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Let's start the negotiations. The Committee on Foreign Affairs proposed that representatives of the political groups should speak first. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U88	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking for more time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U89	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U90	I do not see the Minister of Foreign Affairs here. I have to say, his speech was boring. But that's not a bad thing to say. The speech was perhaps even boring in a good sense, because most of the important emphasis was certainly contained in it and other important emphasis was also mostly clearly marked by the question-answers procedure. Last year, when the Foreign Minister gave a strong note of continuity in his speech, quoting Jaan Tõnisson, he quoted Jaan Poska today. Good men both and certainly such quotations only decorate such presentations. Last year's speech will certainly be accompanied by an emphasis on the value system based on liberal democracy. In this, too, we are quite in agreement with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, except that every time it is spoken of at this level, not Sven Mikser alone, this is also the case for many others, it seems to me to be somewhat declaratory and not actually going into the substance of the problem. In any case, I would expect answers here to at least two questions that have not been raised. One is why the Western value system is crumbling, and the other is what are the blind points of the Western value space, which we tend to forget, either chronically, or where the protection of human rights and the right to self-determination of peoples stalls. I will, above all, try to answer this second question. I came into politics, the Riigikogu, 20 years ago. 16 years ago, as a member of a rather inexperienced Riigikogu, I went to represent Estonia in the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. There was then a very central issue, that was the Chechnya issue, mass human rights violations in a Member State of the Council of Europe. We were witnesses of how the Western value area was not actually able to react decisively, and this was the place where the protection of human rights, I think, stopped very clearly. From now on, there was less and less talk about this. This topic was central in the Riigikogu Hall at the time, not to mention the Strasbourg Assembly, but it has been somehow hidden. Instead, under the name of the protection of liberal values, perhaps more marginal issues have been dealt with in a way that is somehow irritating to a large number of people in different societies. It reminds me that someone's lost a key to a blind broom, but he's gonna come into the room looking for it under the lamp. In my opinion, there is a major problem that has somehow contributed to the emergence of phenomena such as Viktor Orbán in Hungary, such as AfD in Germany and a party in Estonia. This is the driving force of illiberal democracy, in my opinion, that has begun somewhere there. This is also the place where the West has not actually been able to defend its value, has retreated, and the consequences of this retreat have been almost catastrophic. Now the world has changed very significantly, and all this is happening in the timing when we talk a lot about information security and the fight against disinformation. The subject of hat protection, by the way, is much wider than the news of lies, it also concerns the protection of large media, it concerns the protection of infrastructure objects and certainly the creation of new international law, which the Minister has quite clearly emphasised here. I hope that, in this sense, the debate on information security on a very important national issue that will be held on the day after tomorrow will also be relevant. Now some conclusions, which should be very clear. Although the minister did not mention Russia in his speech, in some ways it is even elegant if the first thing in every salon is not to talk about the wolf, our first security threat is Russia, this policy of spheres of influence, the violation of international law that goes on there, in connection with which we have recently made a statement on the events of Kerch. This is an important place. If anyone thinks that the threat is liberal values, I will respond to them that if, let's say, the countries that are closer are not convincing, then I suggest you look at the experiences of North Korea and Cuba. The next conclusion is that for us, value-based foreign policy must certainly not be opposed to interests, but our first interest is that our foreign policy should be more value-based. But here I would like to go much further than Foreign Minister Mikser. In fact, this is Parliament's task: to go much further, to be significantly more decisive in terms of the protection of human rights and the protection of values. A few weeks ago, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a second report on Magnitski, which explicitly called on the Member States and partner countries of the Council of Europe to impose sanctions against those who have either directly violated human rights or have contributed to human rights violations. I hope that the Riigikogu will, however, be able to deal with this initiative in connection with human rights violations in relation to the events of Kerch next week. Finally, a couple of marginal notes in the election. It is a pity that the law on the External Action Service is not adopted during its membership. This is, in my view, a direct result of an amendment which, apparently, seeks to introduce the subject of the Cohabitation Act for vanity purposes. I'm sorry it happened. The second marginal remark on elections relates to this issue, to which the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs has already responded. Our foreign policy at government level should be much more coherent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U91	Mart Nutt on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U92	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Foreign policy has a number of important tasks for the country. I'm only mapping a few of them because there's just no time for everything. The first one, I think, which could be considered the most important foreign policy task, is to ensure security. This is an absolute priority for the foreign policy of both Estonia and probably other countries. However, there are other very important tasks that foreign policy must fulfil. Foreign economic policy, for example. Certainly, Estonia needs to look at external economic issues more widely than only within the framework of the European Union. I dare say there's a lot of room for growth. Perhaps we have so far left too many foreign economic policy issues outside the European Union in the background. This should certainly be improved. Thirdly, consular matters. One of the consular issues that is undoubtedly constantly affecting us is visa liberalisation. If we look at the visa-free travel opportunities of Estonian citizens, they are quite good. About 120 countries are completely visa-free, in many countries we receive visas at the border, but while we compare ourselves with another Member State of the European Union, such as the Nordic countries or Germany, we see that there are countries where citizens of another Member State of the European Union receive visas free, but we cannot. I think that further work should certainly be done in this area as well. Fourthly, development cooperation is a matter. The target of 0.33% by 2030 is noble, but that does not happen by itself. I think that it should involve Estonia's own entrepreneurship, which would certainly help to make progress in development cooperation. But I'll come back to the security issues. As a member of NATO and the European Union, Estonia is well protected, we can say that, but the fact that Estonia remains well protected requires constant investment. This investment is not only military, it is also an investment in politics and foreign policy, it is also the development of relations with other countries and it is also making Estonia more well known in the world. It is appropriate to highlight Estonia's application for non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council for the years 2020 to 2021. Estonia has, as we know, been promoting this process for quite a long time. In 2005, for the first time, a request for membership of the Security Council was issued. But we also consider that this requires the support of two thirds of the United Nations Member States and that there is work to be done to do so. I believe that Estonia has done a very good job, but this work will not end until this decision has been made. However, other aspects need to be highlighted in security matters. I'm gonna need a little more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U93	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U94	What are they? One important issue is undoubtedly neutralising security threats. What are these security threats and where do they come from? First of all, the security threat is undoubtedly aggressive governments, authoritarian states, extreme ideologies. More specifically, we must acknowledge and agree with many of the previous speakers that Russia continues to pose the most regrettable security problem. Russia's aggressive action on several fronts is undoubtedly worrying. But not only. Undoubtedly, the security problem, the security threat, is terrorism, which fortunately Estonia has escaped, but in order to prevent terrorism, we must constantly prepare. The security problem is also extreme ideologies. What are they? Maybe it's a little bit time and time to talk about communism, Nazism and fascism, but it can be deceiving. If we look at some regimes, as has already been mentioned in North Korea and Cuba, but more and more Venezuela and some other countries, we will see that these issues continue to be topical in fact. Extreme religious movements, which are at all a very large source of nourishment to extreme ideology, are also important and therefore a threat to peace. Two ministers have spoken of nationalism in their statements. We should, unfortunately, analyse a little bit about what nationalism is and whether we all understand it in the same way. I generally think that these two ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice, share the same view of nationalism, I do not think that they would treat it differently. However, the word 'nationalism' does not always mean the same in different languages, and if the word 'nationalism' is translated from one language into another, it can also give a misleading signal. Take English and Estonian, for example. In English, nationalism, you can say, is generally a negative connotation, it is like a negative expression and characterises negative circumstances that are not necessarily the case in Estonian. When we try to look at these terms together, we see that the Estonian language has become the term called nationalism in English, rather chauvinism. As regards chauvinism, there is no doubt that this whole "threat mark" applies. Chovinism is an ideology that degrades other nations, is aggressive towards other countries and peoples, but nationalism may also have a number of other forms of manifestation, which may not necessarily be called nationalism when translating from Estonian into English, we would be giving the wrong signal. In Estonian, the word does not have as negative a background as it is in English. Let us take another term, which is often referred to as nationalism in the translation. This is nationalism, including open nationalism, for which I do not think it is right to use the word 'nationalism' in translation, because it clearly gives the wrong signal. Nationalism, as it has always been understood in the Estonian context, is, in fact, an identity-based, identity-based, rather a positive emphasis. Nationalism is also based on international practice and practice of international law, such as the right to self-determination. After all, the emergence of the Estonian state is also the result of the right to self-determination, and we cannot, I think, take a negative view of this. That was my conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U95	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U96	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, the removal of vigilance from the eastern border and the distraction of the allies. Secondly, the extraction of Estonia from Europe. Thirdly, a misassessment of the consequences of this century's major processes, climate change and climate migration. These are three possible future developments, where letting go can have a very significant impact on Estonia's path. I can understand this tactical consideration as to why the Foreign Minister speaking here to us today never mentioned Russia in his speech, but I do not share this choice at a time when the Putin regime is vigorously escalating tensions in Ukraine, preparing for large-scale wars and using more and more brave means to break the gap between Western countries and Western countries. This war, which is fought and whether it is won or lost in our heads, has been going on for some time. This war was initiated by Russia and must be taken seriously. The main objective of such an information war is to create, by whatever means, a wind of public opinion for politicians and policies of their own interest and to generate, discredit, create greater confusion and tension, avoiding direct military intervention, military confrontation. Our government must not be timid or shy when there is a need to be a concrete and explicit responseer to the actions of the Putin regime, or also a reactioner. Even if everyone else is still getting tired of the ongoing crises, it must continue to be Estonia that stands for the pieces that have been bitten away from Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova and supports these countries in their reforms. If there is one language that the Putin regime understands, it is a language of strength. We must not be afraid to speak this language because this regime knows soft, cautious and round from a distance. Our strength lies in the strength of our allies and the unity of our western alliance. When we talk about allies, we are talking about Canada, Great Britain, the Netherlands, other Nordic countries, we are talking about France, Germany and many other countries that are important to us. But very often we talk about the Allies when we talk about the United States. This relationship is important to Estonia and it is particularly important to Estonia. We all know the answer to the question whether our relationship is good right now. Yeah, it's good. But are you sure? I do not think we can resent the fact that, after President Trump's decisions to leave the Paris climate agreement, withdraw his signature from the Iranian nuclear treaty, unexpectedly withdraw troops from Syria and leave the nuclear weapons treaty with Russia, such a question is more frequent than before. Even if the entire debate on NATO's health in the United States has pushed the domestic political struggle, every serious hesitation put forward on this issue is bad. It is the task of our government to consider Estonia's behavioural options in this situation and to make a concrete plan for how we will consolidate Estonia's allies in a worrying situation. No, I'm not talking about plan B, I'm talking about a plan to secure the current situation. In this plan, it would also be reasonable to provide a place for our large community outside Estonia, because if we know how to keep these people, they will also be very important in maintaining relations between countries. In addition, bringing NATO's top-class meeting to Tallinn would be important to Estonia and, more generally, to the whole region in light of all this. An event of this weight has not taken place in Estonia before. Keeping your attention on this NATO wing is something you cannot underestimate in a more confusing security situation. I will bow down to all diplomats who have worked very long to make Estonia's capacity and importance visible. I very much hope that, at political level, this will lead to the result of the preparatory work. The second direction, which needs our keen attention, concerns Europe. The unity of the European Union will be attacked fiercely, both inside and outside, over the next four years. It is in Estonia's interest that Europe endures. If European unity should disintegrate, the countries of our region will be very, very fragile. In Putin's near future, the information war and influence of Russia are largely directed towards as many of its co-workers from every corner of Europe and every edge of the political spectrum as possible in May. The aim is to plant a large enough bomb against European unity and common values directly into the heart of a parliamentary Europe. We, too, have the forces that, with torches and drums, offer seemingly simple solutions to Europe's problems, from what has already been heard to exit the European Union. We remember painfully from our experience exactly where such a strategy ultimately leads. We do not have the option of closing in because our geopolitical position does not allow us to do so. If the border state of Estonia gets out of Europe and western allegiance, we will remain in no man's land, we will be alone. We remain in the same position as the then leaders and people of the Republic of Estonia found themselves manoeuvring before the previous weather war. If Estonia were to succeed in pulling out of Europe, do we really have reason to hope that the result will be somehow different from what was last time? There is another issue that I consider important for the Reform Party to be underlined. By solving our current concerns, do we perceive how predictable global processes for the next few decades will affect life here and relations between countries? Do we bet enough to avoid possible negative consequences? Climate change and climate migration can only be resolved globally and are directly linked to the security and well-being of our people. Forecasts say that not a million or two million people, but more than 100 million people, will move from areas that are becoming uninhabitable due to climate change by the middle of this century. So anyone who is really worried about the effects of migration should actually focus on combating climate change. I also think that Estonia's foreign policy and its report should pay special attention in future to developments and our initiatives in these areas. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the next four years, let us spot the dangers of the backbone and wisdom and identify the developments that could be fatal. And may we have the wisdom to respond properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U97	On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A few months less than three years have passed since the situation, which has brought great uncertainty and confusion to the European Union. In 2016, the British people voted in favour of leaving the European Union. Today we know that the initial euphoria has been replaced by concerns for many. The agreements between the European Union and Britain are difficult to come into existence and, of course, it also directly affects Estonia, our businesses and people. However, it is certain that relations between Estonia and Great Britain will continue to be good and constructive, just as they have been in recent history. However, today's situation shows that populist views and simple solutions do not have much in common with real life. In Estonia, too, there has been an increasing number of hearing about the origins of European Union policies, the unity and cooperation of countries being seen as nullifying the independent policies of the countries. The reality is far from there. We tend to forget, alongside the directives on migration and so-called banana curves, what the European Union's contribution to our economy, security and freedom has been. These are keywords, behind which there are an enormous number of areas and topics that are painfully reminiscing themselves now also through Brexit. What, then, is our lesson? But we can't let our fears beat us. Ignorance is not a virtue. Fortunately, the support of the Estonian people for the European Union continues to be great, but we also have here in the Riigikogu, making responsible policies, being factually based and not enchanted by simple solutions, is an important part of ensuring that this support remains large. I do not wish to dwell on the migration framework, but we have already seen that cooperation can be interpreted in many ways, even harmful. Truth and lies today both start to live their lives quite quickly, and eventually no one understands what, who, where, and why. This is the negative side of the era of rapid and intense movement of information, and it is also very strongly influencing national foreign policies. The belief that this is what they want to hear brings a slippery desire for voters to like, therefore forgetting the long view and the next move. Foreign policy must not only be an outward-looking policy; we must no longer contribute to making Estonian people understand why we have such allied relations, why we support one or the other proposal in the United Nations or the European Union, and what our goals are as a country and a nation. Foreign policy is, of course, something remote, which is only to be understood and spoken when the words'migration' or'refugees' are used there. This is a very serious point of view, good ambassadors, how to broaden the external perspective. Foreign policy must reach people; it must not remain in high and distant office towers. We cannot miss the relations between Estonia and the US either. Estonia is a strong ally of the United States and remains a strong ally, I am sure of that. However, there has been some change in the narratives of Donald Trump's presidency, particularly in NATO, which we rightly consider to be one of our guarantors of security. We must make sure that difficult moments do not demolish successful cooperation built over long years, but develop it. At this point, Estonia has a very important role not only in NATO, where we are fulfilling our allied responsibilities with the defence budget, and we can actively invite others to do so, but also more generally. As a small country in Estonia, it does not have to be, and must not be, a listener, but it must do its utmost to make the world a more stable and better place. This is not just about keeping ourselves busy, but a necessary and possible step to survive as a small country even when the world around us is changing. Estonia has been a candidate for membership of the UN Security Council for the first time. We believe that this is necessary and will give more weight to our efforts to be a constructive solution-seeker. The view of small countries in this Council is necessary. And not only do we consider it necessary to increase Estonia's contribution to development cooperation, to a sustainable living environment and also to achieving a more equal and democratic world. We also support the growing importance of the UN as an organisation in order to make it more coherent, efficient and efficient. The UN must never reach the fate and status of the former League of Nations, we can and we want to make our contribution so that this does not happen. We support the preference of diplomatic dialogue for military conflicts and see Estonia as a strong negotiator in international crisis zones. The primary objective of Estonian diplomacy is to be a rational and neutral conflict solver in the region and the world. Finally, I would like to stress that, as has been pointed out here before, Estonia's economic success really depends very much on foreign markets. We need to work harder and look for ways to make our foreign policy work for the economy. It is gratifying that Estonia has been able to take significant steps in recent years to reach, for example, our agricultural products in Asia. A free trade agreement between the European Union and Japan has also entered into force, which also contributes to economic cooperation between the two countries. In addition to fighting climate change, concluding international agreements and maintaining peace, the representation of Estonian entrepreneurs abroad is one of the most burning issues that needs a solution. This is why the Central Party's assessment has been the same as the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has just repeated: Estonia needs the position of Minister of Foreign Economy so that our entrepreneurs can get their feet between the door more successfully. This step would give Estonian embassies and diplomatic representations a greater role in dealing with economic issues. Our small country's economy can be developed, to a large extent, by operating outside our borders and contributing fully to this cooperation. Finally, while there are momentous times ahead, it is time to put in place the next move in Estonian foreign policy: to enhance the role of our state as a mediator and a collaborator, to find ways to strengthen our economy and improve the understanding of our goals within the country, so that we are out in foreign policy for a common goal. Only then will we be truly strong and ready to face the challenges by firmly overcoming them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U99	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U100	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U101	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U102	Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia once stood out with bold decisions. Today, our foreign policy has lost its values and its sharpness. They do not seek to set great goals, define national interests or protect them. There is no national dignity. However, this is not to be expected from the Socialist Foreign Minister of the Left Government, whose party considers national rule to be an inhuman and dangerous dystopia. Countries stand up for their own interests. Also in the European Union. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, however, I see how almost all the memoranda of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which present Estonia's views in different fora, end with the sentence 'Estonia supports the positions of the European Union'. That's even if they don't really support it. Thus, our foreign policy is largely confined to the desire to sit at as many tables as possible, but instead to stand up for the interests of Estonia, we are engaged in co-operation. I don't blame our representatives or our ambassadors. The fish rots in the head. Mikser spoke of the anniversary year, but did not bother to protest when Russia banned the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Estonia in Petseri at our Pihkva consulate. Nor did he protest when a member of the Russian duuma announced that Tallinn was Revel, the old Russian city, and Tartu Yurjev, as well as the Russian city, where the first Russian university was founded, and that you Estonians were doing what you did in foreign cities. At least the Kremlin has no fear that the truth and our territorial integrity will be or will be required to compensate for the damage to occupation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs should have briefed us on the events in foreign policy last year. There wasn't much of that. As he did last year, he wasted time celebrating left-wing ideology, liberal democracy and the idea of Europe, and intimidation with nationalism and right-wing populism. Liberal democracy is fiction. Either there is democracy or there is no democracy. European culture and morality are based on Christian values and traditions, which are a real source of European unity and democracy. So-called liberal democracy ignores it; it imposes false tolerance, which is attacking and unsatisfied with true values, and highlights extreme personal freedoms, not democratic responsibilities and responsibilities. When minorities decide on the values of the majority, it is not democracy, it is a dictatorship. That's the kind of society we've been in. We're done! The praised 'European idea' of the mixer is based on a European manifesto. They don't try to hide it anymore. There is talk of the need to create a single constitution, a budget, foreign, fiscal and other policies, in other words, a European federation, the biggest enemy of which is national statehood. Everything we fought for, sovereignty, the consolidation of our culture and identity, and national rule, has been declared synonymous with right-wing populism, xenophobia, racism and Nazism. The fight against right-wing populism was even recorded in the Estonian foreign policy development plan drawn up under Mikser, which should be cross-party and impartial. The European Union was established as an alliance of sovereign states. It has nothing in common with the idea of a multicultural and globalist Europe that is being imposed on us under the sign of unity. It is a reduction in the decision-making power of the Member States that will create the ground for the collapse of the European Union. Brexit didn't come out of nowhere. It is a good thing that Mikser stressed the importance of transatlantic relations. They're crucial. However, Estonia voted against the United States in UNESCO, where politics should not be pursued at all, on the transfer of the US embassy to Jerusalem, as well as on the issue of the Iranian nuclear treaty, by ignoring the opposition of the United States, gave money and silence to the Palestinians impoverished by terrorists, when Trump supported us on Nord Stream 2, even when Macron explained that Euro armies were needed against the United States. The issue of the migration pact was also opposed to the US. To claim it doesn't affect relations with the United States is stupid and shortsighted. It certainly does not serve Estonia's interests. A similar phobia has been to support the punishment of Poland and Hungary, which do not agree with the European Commission's dictatorship. I ask Mr Mikser in his own words: if we do not want to show solidarity with our allies and partners, why should others have solidarity with us? This is particularly important in the context of the Russian threat, which he did not say. That if we put our head in the sand, the monster would disappear? This isn't the real world. Development and humanitarian cooperation have a role to play in stopping mass immigration. Estonia is the largest donor per capita among the new European Union countries. We provide approximately 40 million per year, mainly through UN and European Union aid organisations. They want to double the amount. However, on the basis of a report by the European Court of Auditors, nearly 70% of aid is simply stolen. Why is our money being driven into a pit, rather than demanding more control, which would double the real aid? But they don't want to stop mass immigration. Mikser's attempt to approve behind the people's back the disastrous UN migration pact failed thanks to the EKRE. There is no decision of the government to join it, and the declaration that has been suppressed by the Reform Party in the Riigikogu has no legal force and 80% of people oppose it. However, the Minister of Foreign Affairs issued an illegal order to join the Pact to the Estonian ambassador to the United Nations without any mandate. The fact that globalistic multicultural ideology is defined as Europeanism or progressiveism is an indication of invertebratesy and slavery. As long as you don't have to decide for yourself or take responsibility. This is how it must be said that our foreign policy is visionless, cowardly and slippery. I hope that the next government will put foreign policy at the service of Estonia's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U103	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Barbi Pilvre, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U104	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank my colleagues for the group's contributions and, above all, the Foreign Minister, Sven Mikser, and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Marko Mihkelson, for their thorough and professional presentations. For the gourmet of foreign policy, the present world is a real treat. The institutions polished in the history of the great powers, which have long been unwavering, have suddenly proved to be alive and vulnerable, and the dependence of international relations on the human factor has clearly emerged. Unpredictability and improvisation are notions that best characterize the changed foreign policy process. At times, the views of President Trump as tweets lead to the functioning of one of the world's most powerful states in the United States, sowing headlessness and confusion, making the traditional world of international relations soar. The Brexit referendum, which has led to passionate processes around Britain's possible departure from the European Union, continued to be intensely settled but which will take years to settle down. Interests, coincidences, and the activities of colorful individuals now have a strong impact on international life, there is no evidence that silence and predictability will be restored in the near future. At the same time as the relief leaders, parliamentary democracy has shown its vitality. Under the leadership of U.S. Congressman Nancy Pelosi, President Trump's epic project to build a billion-dollar wall on the Mexican border has been decisively restrained and the US authorities are able to work again thanks to its intervention. The British Parliament is making a powerful contribution to the fate of the Brexit project led by Prime Minister Theresa May, defending the economic and political interests of the British people through this Parliament in the long term. We do not yet know whether and how Brexit is happening, as we do not know what surprises may result from the ongoing era of President Trump. In any case, the world is in a vortex of change, as are international organisations holding it together. In this stormy world, a rule-based world order is increasingly important. As a small country, we know very well, based on our historical experience, that our security and our survival as a country depend on international agreements. Estonia is still getting along well with its partners in NATO and the European Union, working together in the UN and other organisations. Compliance with international agreements is also a prerequisite for ensuring peaceful development and cooperation at a time when phenomena that threaten peaceful coexistence, such as isolationism and anti-democratic processes, have raised the minds of many countries. That is why it is also important for Estonia to participate in international activities, be it the Eastern Partnership, or development cooperation with other former parts of the Soviet Union, such as Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia or Belarus, or also development cooperation with African countries and humanitarian aid. Cooperation, as well as contributing, is the basis of our own security. It is worth remembering that, thanks to development cooperation in the nineties, the Estonian state and society rose back on their feet and progressed rapidly on the road to westernization. This should not be forgotten if there are voices among the people that question the financing of international development cooperation from the Estonian state budget. Political communication is central. According to some ideas, politics is communication. What can't be communicated, it doesn't exist. Estonian foreign policy is highly professional and is supported by a professional External Action Service, which continues to develop and expand, as we have heard above. In this professionalism, the internal communication of our foreign policy activities may sometimes be in the background. The domestic bubbles around the UN Pact on Migration highlighted the importance of explaining and once more explaining their actions. What does it seem self-evident to foreign policy professionals does not have to appear to ordinary citizens, even journalists, who may not always understand Estonia's efforts in international cooperation. In foreign policy communication, it is important that every person gets to the knowledge that Estonia is not a superpower that can do it alone. Estonia has been a beneficiary in the European Union, and now it is also a payer, but it is still a beneficiary in many areas. Just as we were helped and helped now, Estonia helps others and thereby increases its visibility, influence and security. Estonia is currently aspiring to become a member of the Security Council of the United Nations. In this process, we communicate with countries all over the world, and sometimes the story of Estonia must be explained from the beginning: where we are located, where we speak the language, what we think. Through the process of aspiring to membership of the UN Security Council, we can see that foreign policy is a continuous process in which we must continue to signal ourselves with small steps. Estonia is a full member of the European Union and we cannot deal with the European Union, Brussels, like anyone outside. In Estonia, support for the European Union is one of the highest in the organisation. A united and cooperative European Union is in our interests. It is with regret that among the new members, the former Eastern European countries, there are those who question the fundamental values of the European Union, such as solidarity and consensus. The debate on the issue of the United Nations Migration Agreement highlighted the contradictions in the perceptions of different countries regarding shared responsibility in the event of crises. Solidarity and unity have also been questioned in Estonia in order to earn cheap domestic political popularity. At international level, such tendencies are harmful because the same branch is being sawed on its own. Estonia has won a great deal, thanks to international solidarity, both in economic terms and in guaranteeing security. You don't have to forget that. As a NATO member, we are an exemplary country, a 2% member of the club. There is a political consensus in Estonia that 2% of the state budget goes to defence expenditure. We attach importance to transatlantic communication and to NATO's leading partner being the United States, although we also support the contribution of European partners to NATO as we can, ideally within the framework of 2%. Given our geopolitical position, which does not change, the presence and visibility of the allies is important to Estonia. We have been a member of NATO and of the European Union for 15 years now, so we have begun to consider it, perhaps, to be forgiving or to be self-evident. Sometimes it's worth remembering what it means to us that we're a member of these elite clubs. The world is actually small and we have more common interests than what separates us from the global climate or environmental issues in general, which will increasingly affect international relations, peace and security in the future. The Social Democrats have always stood for the values of freedom, solidarity and liberal democracy, and we also regard them as fundamental values in foreign policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U105	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U106	Good fellows! I'll start with where the vigilante ended up in Pilvre. Since 2004, Estonia has been a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. This means that our country must align its foreign and defence policy with what is decided in this organisation. This gives us an advantage by releasing us from difficulties and the need to contribute spiritual energy to the complex consideration of threats and opportunities that countries have to monitor their own autonomous path. Well, there is always a risk that NATO will agree on something that is not in our interests. So our foreign policy is not so much about having foreign policy as it is about the complex transformation of the world. The task of our foreign policy is to have an effective doctrine of the national interests of Estonia, namely the interests of all Estonian people, not to exclude anyone, from the interests of all Estonians. This is something I have worked for in this Riigikogu and I hope to do it in the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U107	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U108	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I followed today's foreign policy debate and I have to admit that I was very disappointed. To put it politely, everything that has taken place in this Chamber, except for a few exceptions, has been like the presentation of good school pupils' reports in order to get the head of the class approved. I don't see who this class leader might be here, but these things are presented exactly like this: we are good, we are ambitious, we are obedient, we are doing what you expect of us, and please praise us for it and give us five! It is childish, it is not appropriate for an independent, sovereign country, respectful of its national interests and for its national interests. It is very embarrassing to hear here that we have political forces that want to and want to. We have politicians and political forces who understand that what was written in these referendums is foreign policy yesterday, sometimes even the day before yesterday, but we must come today. I recommend everyone read Kissinger's "Diplomacy." This may be an academic work from a foreign policy point of view at the moment, because it does not describe the specific situation we have reached in international relations, but it provides us with an excellent, wooden and red advance on how international relations will change, how today's friends can be enemies of tomorrow, how some economic interests can turn into different economic interests. This is exactly what we see in today's world. In today's world, we see that the United States and the great powers of Europe are not allies like they were during the Cold War. This is the reality from which we must draw our conclusions. We see that the United States is interested in maintaining Russia's neutrality, or even allied relations with Russia, in the event that the United States should have skis very seriously cross their basic Pacific competition with China. We absolutely do not understand this reality in our foreign policy. We do not understand that the greatest enemy of the European Union is not 'over-demonised populism' or 'nationalism', but the European Union's policy of building its own European empire, driven by the bureaucrats and bureaucratic politicians of the European Commission, and which increasingly and increasingly angers the national elites. There are movements in Austria, Italy, Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and other countries, which are literally protest movements against the construction of the United States of Europe. This is a reality that is being sought to deny and demonise and which ultimately leads to the dissolution of the European Union. Let's look back in history for a second. The Roman Empire rotted from the inside long before it collapsed on the outside. This is a process that we see in today's European Union, whether we like it or not. We, the Estonian people, did not create the European Union, we, the Estonian people, neither did we destroy the European Union. If the European Union falls apart, it will be because of its internal contradictions, especially those within the great powers. We need to monitor these processes, and not in a report of how good we are, but all the time burning a safe loop between our ears to understand what we are in the situation and what the real way is. Finally. Donald Trump is a reaction to the processes that have occurred since the end of the Cold War. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U109	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U110	Donald Trump has worked with NATO, NATO's defence capabilities, NATO's fighting capabilities in two years more than they did in the last 20 years. It's a reality. But Donald Trump has also said something that should guide the national elites of small countries in particular. I assume you can still imagine yourself in this hall as the elite of our nation. America never agrees that America is ruled by international bureaucrats, who are not elected by the American people and who are not accountable to the American people. I say the same: our party will never agree to hand over the rule of Estonia to the bureaucrats and bureaucratic politicians of the European Commission, who have not been elected by the Estonian people and who are not accountable to the Estonian people. If America is ruled by Americans, then Estonia must be ruled by Estonians. Finally, this is the last thing. I was just embarrassed to hear a representative of the Reform Party start talking here about some Russian hoodlums. Please think of your VEB Fund as the original sin, remember who was in power and let hundreds of billions of money laundering happen in Danske, which has been said to be one-2% left to the brokers, and then go on with the Russian hobbits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U111	I will conclude the negotiations and the debate on this item. I'm sorry! Jürgen Ligi still wants to participate in the negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U112	Well, there's gotta be some way to react to the kind of crap that people sit in that corner. There is no need to add any speech, I think, to the foreign policy debate. Certainly, the VEB Fund or Danske are not issues that are purely domestic, but I agree with one questioner that foreign policy could have been more visible and effective, should have been explained who was actually responsible for Danske's affair, and shown that Estonia was quite successful in this supervision. There's so much international view here that money laundering is international. The money that has been washed through Estonia, as far as it is known, or how much data has come to court, is predominantly Russian money. We have heard the deep bows of the EKRE towards the Kremlin and the praise of Russian culture, all of which, after all, belongs to this populist family, all over Europe. This alliance, which you are hoping to create in order to abolish even the anti-Russian sanctions, jointly undermine Estonia's foreign policy, to abolish the European Union, all this is known. It could have been more enlightened here today. But I did respond to the fact that on Danske I am proud of what financial supervision was able to do. I am not proud of what the ministries of power have done, but the reasons why they were so helpless were certainly not deliberate. Here the will has been on the part of Russia and there have been legal theoretic disputes as to why regulations cannot be infinitely harsh. But financial supervision did very well, and it is not a service of any party, it is still a service of financial supervision, of the Estonian state. Similarly, the international theme is, of course, the VEB Fund. Fortunately, the coalition's conscience continued not to let this crap into the big hall, not to throw millions to those who had more favourable conditions at the time of their service, i.e. currency rights, export and import licences, socialist means of production, all of which enabled these bills to be filled with money in Vnešekonombank. Again, within the framework of the foreign policy debate: this money was frozen by Russia as part of the sanctions against Estonia. It is extremely lame when the People's Union and the EKRE are creating some crazy scandal and conspiracy here and trying to disparage the Estonian state, trying to label their opponents here. We are happy to be with the EKRE in many places, but the way you, the EKRE, behave is just smearing the Estonian state. I will say one more detail, which would have been exciting to hear from the Foreign Minister. Somewhere the word 'nationalism' has been introduced and the face has been made, as if the meanings of specific words were the same in different languages. It's such a fake thing and, unfortunately, Mart Nutt used it a little bit. Nationalism, however, has historically more negative meaning in Estonia, and it has a different meaning internationally than just nationalism. So let's not show off with word games, let's not talk about having to rehabilitate this term somehow. Nationalism, yes, we have to rehabilitate, but let's not do philological nonsense that has political meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U113	Okay. I will now close the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U114	We have already reached the second reading of Bill 789. The draft has been initiated by Andres Metsoja, Raivo Aeg, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Priit Sibul, Aivar Kokk, Sven Sester, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Maire Aunaste, Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Valeri Korb, Jaanus Karilaid, Märt Sults, Inara Luigas and Tanel Talve. Second reading. The Environment Committee waitress Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U115	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good ambassadors! This Riigikogu has spoken a lot about state reform and has even decided to implement administrative reform. Soon the document on the basis of the state reform will also be on the table in this Chamber, so we can discuss together how to take these reforms forward in Estonia. But there have been many times in this Chamber the same bill, now for the first time with a second number. This draft did not receive the necessary support in the past and fell out of the procedure. Now we have presented it again. The draft has been dealt with three times between the first reading and the second reading at the Commission meeting: 28 January, 29 January and 11 February. Representatives of the Environment Board, the Environmental Inspectorate, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Ministry of the Interior also attended the meeting on 11 February and held a debate on the amendments to the draft. The deadline was the amendment received from the members of the Riigikogu, Keit Pentus-Rosimitud and Kalle Pallingult. This can be seen as one amendment, as agreed by the Commission. In essence, this proposal concerns the integration of the Environmental Board, not with the Environmental Inspectorate, but with the Police and Border Guard Board. In other respects, the substance of the draft has remained essentially unchanged in the proposal, which was in the variant of the drafters. The Commission discussed whether this proposal is good and how different actors could respond to it. This meeting was attended by Krista Aas, a representative of the Police and Border Guard Board. He did not support this proposal because he did not understand what it wanted to solve. He said it makes sense that the competence for criminal proceedings is greater in the Police and Border Guard Board, but supervision must also be maintained where sectoral policies are being developed and environmental competences are being carried out. He added that the Police and Border Guard Board already has 16 main activities and a number of services, and environmental inspections may not work so well there. It is, of course, important to work together and further develop this model of cooperation so that both agencies are more effective. Veiko Kombusar from the Ministry of the Interior added that he supported the draft, but not the amendment. The dominant principle is that the authority closest to the task has its own procedural competence and supervision. The proposal also requires a longer analysis period, but the draft is already in the final stages of the procedure. It should be pointed out that the authors of the amendment also added that it would be difficult to move forward, but we did go through this discussion with this urgency if the merger had not been analysed with the Police and Border Guard Board. Riho Kuppart, the head of today's Environmental Board, explained that the Environmental Board must certainly work very well with the Police and Border Guard Board and is already doing so, as well as becoming more effective as a whole. Thus, there is a need for cooperation anyway, and there is no desire to weaken environmental inspections in any way, rather the opposite. He added that environmental security, as such, will play an increasingly important role in the future. Olav Avarsalu, acting as a replacement for the Head of the Environmental Inspectorate, pointed out that the system in this area varies widely from country to country, and that control and supervision have also been combined with police work. Last autumn, the Environmental Inspectorate was assessing how to deal with environmental crimes, and the general recommendation was to keep unique knowledge in one house, and it was recommended that each change be considered seriously. Veiko Kommuskaar added that such an analysis of how and who is dealing with environmental crime is being carried out in all the Member States of the European Union. In order to be able to do more extensive work, the environmental inspector needs to be given more competence, i.e. to improve access to databases. The fact that no one can access databases now is not a reason for merging institutions. Indeed, the discussions at the meetings of the Commission included, for example, procedures where both the representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board and the inspectorate are required to be present; they cannot carry out certain activities on their own because they do not have access to databases. A debate took place between the members of the Commission and the opinions were from wall to wall. On the one hand, it was found that it is still unclear why this draft has come again if it has not been approved by Parliament. On the other hand, it was thought that in a situation where both former and today's leaders are saying that this work should be completed, and the decision is in the hands of the Riigikogu hall, the work has been done for a long time, consistency has been sought, organisations have been prepared for how to make better progress together and respond to the expectations of the effectiveness of state administration, and this has also been approved by the government and the Ministry of the Environment, it should still be carried forward. In addition, one amendment was tabled by the Committee on the Environment. This concerns the Water Act, which was adopted in this composition on 30 January 2019. In fact, there has been a slight mismatch. When we dealt in the Commission with the same basically the same draft, which was then the second number, and in parallel with the Water Act, but the Environmental Agency could not be created as a joint body, this text had to be rewritten back there. Now that the decision to merge the Environmental Meteorological and Inspection is taken, the amendment must be re-established in the context of the Water Act. Language improvements were also made. The other two meetings were of a rather technical nature, and it was decided on the issues of when to put the draft on the plenary agenda and who should be the Commission's rapporteur. The first reading was closed on 29 January and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 7 February. The Commission proposed a proposal, and let us see what it proposed when I find it, to send the draft to second reading. One amendment, which received 2 votes in favour, was voted against by the Commission. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U116	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Despite your rather long, calm speech, I would like to ask you a question. Last time the draft law was under discussion in this Chamber, one of the main criticisms was that neither the analysis nor the convincingly presented in the explanatory memorandum, which still improves the functioning of the institution. The Environmental Inspectorate is also known to be part of the field of internal security. Now can you give us the answer that gets better? Are these tests done?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U118	Thank you. We had the power to question it again from the parties involved. The answer was that, on the side of the parties involved, nothing bad will happen in this world if these two organisations remain separate. Life goes on, just in the future it may be difficult to come back to this question, such a offense simply is not polite and beautiful. But it was added that obviously these functions need to be reviewed in time and space. Already during the preparatory work, it was evident that the addition of activities and functions freed up some resource that could be used more effectively. This is said by the leaders of the organization who have been involved in the field for a long time and have been there. That's the answer. Indeed, we can either trust the officials who carry out their work every day in this system and try to consolidate the institutions, or doubt it indefinitely. I have chosen this path to trust the officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U119	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U120	Thank you. Good waitress, one adjustment first. You referred to it as if we, as authors of amendments, had been critical of the urgency of pushing through the amendment, but it was still a matter of trying to push through the draft as a matter of urgency, we are not talking here about the amendment. That's the correction I had to make. But here's the question. This overview of the debate was a beautiful one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided presentation of the opinions of the officials, but you almost left out the explanation and justifications that we tabled as authors of the amendments. Would you like to present these too?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U121	Thank you. I'm still ready to present. Okay. Let us take this paragraph concerning the presentation of Keit Pentus-Rosimdose by the Commission. Keit nicely pointed out that the reason for the amendment was to attempt to push through the draft in an unreasonable hurry, although a similar draft failed in the Riigikogu a few months ago. The proposers are very critical of the draft, as the capacity of environmental inspections to unite bodies is reduced. The aim is not to add tasks to the EPA, but to find out where the Environmental Inspectorate should land in its current form. It would be more logical to do so by the Police and Border Guard Board, which is already in charge of supervision and control. There are also already examples that the Environmental Inspectorate needs the assistance of the Police and Border Guard Board to carry out the procedure. The first preference would be not to join the Environmental Inspectorate at all. Kalle Palling, as the author of the amendment, added that, at the present stage of the procedure, support for the amendment was complicated, but an analysis of the merger between the Environmental Board and the Police and Border Guard Board could have been carried out in the course of the procedure of the previous draft. At present, the alternative has not been considered. Nor should the reform of the state remain within the administrative framework of one ministry and see a broader picture. I understand you were interested in this part just in the sense that it was reported. Now it's done.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U122	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! It is my understanding that, after listening to the presentation and getting an overview of the Commission's debate, the need or the need for agencies to be united did not become clear. Either way, everything could work out normally. You mentioned resources. What are the resources that would be released if the agencies were merged? Does that lead to layoffs, people's dismissals? What are these resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U124	Thank you. It is probably the same situation as with the administrative reform. In the case of administrative reform, it is often said that enormous cost savings will be achieved, but later, when analyses are carried out, it will be seen that the number of money has not decreased, that it is not as if the taxpayer's wallet has gained a significant victory, but rather in the form of new services, additional competences, skills and capabilities in society. It's exactly the same story. Together, it is said that the area is underfunded and that more money is needed there. That's a pretty common story. When we invite the leaders of the organizations to the table, it turns out that money is always needed. But on the other hand, we need to understand in this Chamber that each organisation has some sort of life cycle, certain obligations change, we digitize, we develop the country and the nature of the work changes. It's exactly the same here. Obviously, a very important benefit can be that it does not deal with the wrong legislation, that it already understands what is being done in the beginning. Unfortunately, I have to admit that, in the Committee on the Environment, it has seemed, on a number of occasions, that, in fact, the amendment that is intended to be implemented is being discussed seriously, as for the first time. That's a problem. Indeed, in a very simple way, the problem should not be that there are two separate institutions, but, if they are brought together under a single governance structure, synergies can be found in combination. I believe it is actually very difficult to be against this. World practice and Estonia's experience with mergers have shown this in a positive light.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U125	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U126	Thank you! Good waitress! We're on the second round with this bill. I myself am a member of the Committee on the Environment. I understand the agencies themselves are in favour of this merger. Perhaps we could repeat once again the benefits that arise for the citizen or, let's say, for the client.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U127	Thank you. After all, this benefit should largely lie in the fact that a citizen's client, if so you can call it, gets adequate information in the right place at the right time. After all, Terje, you and I in the Committee on the Environment have often actually solved a situation where the parties have been forced to come and sit down in committee to find out. In certain cases, legislation has completely grey areas. We'll take the same fishing. Certain fishing gear has not been regulated in the Fisheries Act and has not been disbanded in the regulations, it is about environmental conservation, it is about non-harming the environment. Fishermen say it's the right thing, the inspection says it seems to them it's the right thing, but the law doesn't really allow it to be used. Finally, I believe that it should be up to the authorities to resolve such situations. We here should intervene on very few occasions. But rather, it seems to me that there tends to be a rule that a solution is sought in Parliament. I don't think that's good practice. This is where I think the red line is very clearly critical. Therefore, things still don't work out well enough, somewhere it's a watermelon that needs to be overcome. I think this waterfall is in people-to-people relationships, in organizational management and, in fact, in communication space. So my short answer is that we have a very large institution, more than 500 employees are in total there, they are regionally scattered across Estonia, but in order to get answers, you have to come to Tallinn to Toompea. This is not sustainable and is not really fair to the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U128	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U129	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! I understand the arguments concerning economic, financial contraction. But the contradiction is rather this: the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate, one on supervision, the other on environmental management. A situation may arise, even theoretically, if it does not occur in practice, where monitoring requires monitoring of environmental management, i.e. the activities of the Environmental Board. How can they deal with these issues as one organization?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U130	Thank you. At first glance, it seems to be incomprehensible that you give orders with one hand, all right, and checks with the other hand. We have traditionally understood in society that in order to create a structure to share responsibility, various organisations and organisations must be made, by their statutes and by their statutes, by the tasks assigned to them, the area of responsibility is determined and carried out according to it. Indeed, there is one way to go so narrowly, to say that there is a border between organisations and clarity in the house, one is black and the other is white. The alternative is to see the organisation as one as a whole, as a competence centre with competence together. After all, it is precisely this preparatory work that plays a very important role in ensuring that there is no punishment at all. After all, penalties will only be used in cases where there is a very well-informed infringement, a premeditated infringement. Once this has been achieved, there is no doubt that it will also be necessary to punish and, to this end, to create clarity and accountability in the structure. It certainly cannot be that the person who issues the regulation is also carrying out the procedure at the same time. There is, after all, a separate question of criminal punishment, how it is held accountable, how it is done, whether there is administrative procedure, whether it is done through court, etc. The various institutions actually intervene in this administration of justice, perhaps so. In this interview, which was last in the Commission, the Police and Border Guard Board is interfering with these procedures in exactly the same way. Now the question is whether we are afraid of all of this, whether we are keeping things separate in organisations, or whether we are trying to find a common part, and that is precisely what we are trying to do, so that people may not be punished for activities that are somehow, I say, poorly recorded by us in the law and which have not been sufficiently explained. Such situations often occur in life. The synergies should provide additional support and allow for clearer regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U131	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U132	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This is not some new plan we are discussing here. The lobby for the independent Environmental Inspectorate to be lost or lost has been going on for very long years. I, too, encountered this during my term as Minister for the Environment in 2011-2014, but the new thing is that this lobby has now been given in. For the first time we are quite serious, or indeed for the second time completely true, we are discussing in the Riigikogu the plan to abolish independent environmental supervision. I apologise in advance for your emotionality, but I think it was not for nothing that the exact same draft failed in Parliament two months ago. This bill is a piece of shit. If the proposal presented were to pass through again during the last two parliamentary working weeks, then, once again, the independent environmental inspection in the Republic of Estonia would have been abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly suggest that you think very carefully about what you are doing before you have to approve this draft. Now a few words from the amendment as well. The desire of the drafters, as we have heard, is to merge the control and supervisory authority with the Environmental Inspectorate, whose role is by its very nature completely different. The Environmental Board deals with practical nature conservation work and issues environmental permits. If environmental inspections are combined with a completely different role for this agency or body, this naturally means the dissolution of supervision. However, since it is understood that the current Minister for the Environment, Siim Kisler, has the will and the desire to join the Environmental Inspectorate with something, in any case, to end this Environmental Inspectorate as an independent body, our proposal, which I made with my colleague Kalle Palling, whose content would not dilute the control of environmental violations, but would make it more logical and also stricter. I therefore ask you to support this proposal. If you do not support this proposal, I have a suggestion that you think carefully before you liquidate the Environmental Inspectorate. If we really should respond to this pressure quickly and quickly over the last two weeks to pass this proposal, I think we will regret it for a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U133	There's no more calls. Two amendments have been tabled for bill 789. The first is by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Kalle Palling. The Commission has disregarded this proposal. That's what I'm talking about. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U134	Thank you, Mr President. I am asking for this motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U135	Let's do it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Kalle Palling, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There are 14 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this amendment, against 18. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 2, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, fully taken into account. On the proposal of the Governing Commission, the second reading of draft 789 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U136	Next on our agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act 788 initiated by the Committee on Rural Affairs. The rapporteur is Mr Aivar Surva, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U137	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act was initiated by the Committee on Rural Affairs on 14 January. The draft provides for a mandate standard for the determination of adverse weather conditions for the Government of the Republic. According to the draft, in the event of adverse weather conditions which differ significantly from normal weather conditions and cause significant economic damage to farmers, the Government of the Republic may determine the occurrence of adverse weather conditions. The assessment of weather conditions shall be based on long-term observation data collected for normal years. The first reading of draft proposal 788 was closed on 22 January and no amendments were tabled by the Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees on the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments, 28 January at 10 a.m. The Committee on Rural Affairs decided to submit a draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 February and to propose that the second reading be terminated. It was also decided that when the second reading of the draft was completed, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the third reading by 20 February and that the final vote on the draft be proposed. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-12_U138	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Aivar Surva! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The second reading of bill 788 is complete. I'm looking at the watch. Director's intermission three minutes. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 1.57 p.m.
