ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 5th working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues have a desire to pass on drafts and enquiries? There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Incoming check, please! 75 members of the Riigikogu are present, 26. Messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the opening meeting of the Estonian-Switzerland parliamentary group will take place in this Chamber, which will be convened by the Anti-Semiamets.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U2	So, let's go to the agenda items today. The first item is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to bring Article 18 (1) (6) of the Local Government Organisation Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you a brief presentation on this item. First, the Chancellor of Justice is the presentation by Ülle Madise, which lasts for up to 20 minutes, and then Vilja Toomas, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is the presentation which also lasts for up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. After the presentations and answers to questions, negotiations are open to all members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups. A majority of the votes in favour of the Riigikogu are required for the adoption of the proposal. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the first item on the agenda. I'm asking for Chancellor Ülle Madise as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! If a member of the Riigikogu, a director of a local school or kindergarten, a manager of a library, a manager of a city or rural municipality company, or a person working on the basis of an employment contract in any city or rural municipality institution, he or she can also work at the council if he or she has the public's trust. However, if a person, such as a janitor, a bus driver, a stadium guard, an accountant, an IT specialist who has a contract of employment with a city or municipality government, is not allowed to become a member of the council if he or she has the confidence of the people. If elected, he will either have to give up his job or abandon his mandate from the people. In the case of a person whose office is requested by the municipal or city authorities, the person is found to be a member of the contract staff of another institution, or the person goes to OÜ to speak the language of the people, or to continue to do the same work and to bill for it. Then he can be on the council. Perhaps this situation is hypocritical and there is no meaningful purpose for organising a state and a local life in this way. I would point out that the local council, as many of you know, is the representative body of the local community, decides on issues of local life, public space issues, investment and budget. According to the international rules required by Estonia, it must be possible to participate in this decision as widely as possible, i.e. the restrictions must be well justified. It is not why anyone has the right to apply or participate in a representative body when elected, but what are the very weighty and non-landable risks for which he is not allowed to do so. It is precisely because the local council can have a local council and, fortunately, it is often those people who are affectionately called the salt of the land, or local active people, entrepreneurs, teachers, family doctors, who have established clear and strict rules of withdrawal in the local council. They are enshrined in the Local Government Organisation Act and they are also enshrined in the Anti-Corruption Act, which reaffirms that this restriction, this hypocritical restriction that exists in the current law, does not serve any reasonable purpose. The right to apply and, when elected, to take up work in the representative body, as well as the right to choose and retain their jobs, are very important fundamental rights. There must be clear and logical reasons for restricting these rights. In this case, they are not, which is also confirmed by the fact that when a similar case reached the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court initiated the constitutional review, but then the work was stopped because the person withdrew his complaint from the proceedings. Now, through our administration, this work has come before you, and I very much hope that you will support this proposal. In conclusion, I consider that § 18 (1) (6) of the Local Government Organisation Act is contrary to § 10, § 11 (2), § 29 (1) and § 156 (1) of the Constitution. It is also contrary to the European Charter for Local Government and its Additional Protocol, which has been made mandatory for Estonia. I ask you to support this proposal and to bring it into line with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U4	Thank you, Chancellor. You have questions. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Your Honor, Chancellor! Being a fresh member of the Riigikogu and having worked as Rae's parish elder for over seven years, this proposal gives me some concern. In fact, when this limitation was applied in 2013, as the head of the municipality, I was very pleased that such a restriction was actually introduced into the law, i.e. the status of an official (an official could not be a member of the council at the same time) and the status of an employee on the basis of an employment contract. What was the problem? The motivation to apply for a council often meant that a job was actually wanted in the municipal or urban structures. Coalition negotiations may have been one where it was said that we would first split jobs and then we would look forward. Unfortunately, it's real life and my own experience. So if you want to keep the so-called line that no, we don't share jobs, then partner or whoever wants to come to power does, and you can't keep that straight line. I see that this could lead to...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U6	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U7	How?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U8	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U9	Ah! It was an introduction that this could lead to a greater problem of trust. The second issue is with the heads of offices. But my question is, can't you see the problem that it might just undermine confidence in the local government if it were to bring this thing back to life?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U10	Thank you! I don't see the problem. It's just because if you want to give someone a job for running, there's a chance today. In such a case, the person is paid not to the city or municipality administration, but to another city or municipality institution. So this practice is not altered in any way by the implementation of the proposal. If this is the case somewhere and, of course, I know it is done, then there is no connection between this activity and support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U11	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! One topic that was also discussed was that of conflict of interest and corruption. At the same time, for example, being head of an institution and working in council bodies, there may be a sense of opacity and a desire to tilt any budget negotiations towards your own institution. Although I personally expect people to withdraw from the decision-making process in this case. Do you think that the proposal that we have on the table today will reduce or increase this transparency and the risk of corruption in the future? You also mentioned once that if, for some reason, a natural person cannot work under a contract, for example, he will become a legal person and will still be able to participate in the process. Such examples are still alive when legal and natural persons are treated differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U13	Thank you very much. The fact that people are being given jobs not because this job financed by taxpayers' money is needed and that the person who receives this job has competed there and is the best one to do this job is really unfortunate practice. However, the implementation of this proposal does not change this practice in any way. We are only talking about cases where the stadium guard, the driver, the reception secretary or any other person has a contract of employment directly with the municipality or city administration. It is still possible to be a member of the council and, at the same time, a contract staff member in any city or municipality institution, the manager of a city or rural municipality company, the head of the school, etc. This is not something that this proposal will change in any way. The proposal is likely to reduce the degree of hypocrisy and the loss of confidence caused by hypocrisy and susserisation. Perhaps there could be more trust if the rules are clear. As far as conflicts of interest are concerned, indeed, the risk of conflicts of interest in the council, especially in smaller municipalities, is quite high. That is why § 17 (5) of the Local Government Organisation Act states that no member of the council, the head of school, the head of kindergarten or the head of the local company may take part in the preparation, discussion or decision-making of the council as required by the Anti-Corruption Act. He or she shall be prohibited from taking an act or decision where at least one of the following circumstances occurs: the decision or act shall be taken in relation to him or the person associated with him or her, he or she is aware of the economic or other interest of him or the person associated with him or her, he or she is aware of the risk of corruption. So, the rules of withdrawal must, in any case, be given a great deal of attention. So, once again, the fact that employment contracts are simply concluded as a political trade in coalition negotiations does not, unfortunately, change anything by complying with this proposal or by failing to comply with it. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U14	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U15	Thank you. Good Chancellor of Justice! The topic of municipal affairs is certainly undisputedly exciting. If you look at your proposal, it can be said, broadly speaking, that we have four groups of people who, in a way or in another way, have legislative regulation today: first of all, officials, secondly, contract staff, thirdly, those who work in all kinds of agencies and companies, and, fourthly, those who work in companies or other organisations that are in a contractual relationship with the municipality. Two of these four groups have the freedom to be a council member and two do not have employees or officials. I understand that this is not so much a question of whether and how much there is a constitutional barrier or a violation of fundamental rights, but rather a question of 'legal policy choices' to which to draw this line. In your analysis, it was also true that whether or not an official's limitation of membership of the municipal council is constitutional and whether or not, for example, an official's membership of another municipal council and its admissibility is somehow influenced by the fact that there must be no contractual relationship, even if you think it might be.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U16	Thank you very much. The employees of the municipality and the city are now also entitled to belong to the council if they have been formed not as an institution of the municipality or city administration, but as an employee of another institution, such as the Planning Board, a law enforcement unit (or whatever is in place). They can still be at the municipal council. The proposal concerns only one legal technical error, which has also attracted the attention of the Supreme Court. The monitoring of constitutionality has already begun on the initiative of the Supreme Court in this matter. The Supreme Court has clearly stated that in a situation where the employees of the city and rural municipality are allowed to be on the council, it is equally possible to bypass the restriction that a council member's mandate ends by taking up the service on the basis of another contract. Such a restriction makes no sense. The question of whether an official could be a member of the council, we did not analyse, because this was not the subject at the moment, given that the separation of powers at local level does not exist in the constitutional sense. Models are different, a separate government as a unit with its sub-offices does not in itself have to be, the council and the government may also be together in some systems. So if the Riigikogu wants to change this model and allow officials to be on the council, considering all the risks, it is probably possible. But we have not dealt with this issue. We only dealt with this one narrow issue, which has once been under constitutional review procedure. It was terminated because the person withdrew his complaint.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U17	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! After all, we have discussed this compatibility with the Constitution in this Chamber before, and as a result, members of the Riigikogu now have the right to be elected to local councils. At that time, many examples were given here from other European countries, where this is exactly the case. Is there any way to make a comparison that it's not a problem anywhere, and that's the way you want things to go now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U19	Thank you very much. Of course, we have people in the house who are also studying and monitoring the international picture, but it would not be right to make quite serious claims to you here for the simple reason that the official is defined very differently in different countries. Estonia has chosen a narrow definition that, for example, the local financial manager or the head of the accounting department must definitely be an official; at present, it must not belong to the council. Personally, I think that's right. In many countries, however, the concept of an official is very broad, including bus drivers and others who receive taxpayers' money. So, actually, this picture is passionate. Rather, it is preferable for the issues of local community and local life to be decided by the widest possible number of people and for decoy ducks to be kept to a minimum. At the same time, it is emphasized that when conflicts of interest arise, a person withdraws. The only explicit exception to Estonian law is the local budget vote. Local school managers, kindergarten managers, librarians and others, as well as the local company management, are also allowed to vote there. Otherwise, you have to cancel out. I know that there are many disputes across Estonia about whether or not there is a need to withdraw from this point or another point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U20	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U21	Thank you. I, too, have a background in the mayor's office, and to tell you the truth, this proposal is a little worrying. The municipal and municipal authorities have a number of employees whose work is supervised, coordinated and also controlled by the municipality's head. If there is now a situation in which his subordinates, through the council, become so-called his superiors, there is, in fact, a very strong conflict in the beginning. You are writing here that, of course, there is a need to avoid conflict of interest and the simultaneous exercise of the role of member of the council and of the authority of the city or rural municipality, etc., but I think that is precisely what is causing the conflict. Don't you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U22	Thank you very much. Again, I can't. Even now, the same headmaster, who is actually subject to the city or municipality's educational authority and thus to the mayor or the mayor's elder, may be on the council. So this situation actually exists. The question is whether to allow hypocrisy to continue and this technical error of regulation to be eliminated or eliminated. It is also possible to circumvent this provision at present. The only difference is that if now a person who is directly employed by a municipality or city authority, such as a cemetery or a bus driver, and that is, of course, what this practice is, goes to the elections in an independent election union, for example, gets the public's trust, then he has the choice that he will say, yes, I was a decoy duck, I will not go to the council, or he will give up his paid job. If he is a winner of this group, he will be found a place so that he can carry on with the same work simply in the spirit of another institution. If he is unpleasant to the winner, i.e. on the opposition side, there will be no possibility of reformulation, they will say that we will end the mandate. The proposal is aimed precisely at overcoming this situation, which is hypocritical and actually hitting the independent. The situation that, at local level, it is precisely because very many local government employees may and will belong to the council, and that is why, essentially, their boss's superiors, this proposal will not change in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U23	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U24	Thank you. Honourable waitress! First of all, it seems to me that you were wrong when you said that today a member of the Planning Board could be a council member. I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U25	It will!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U26	Ah, maybe then you can name one of the local governments of Estonia, where an employee of the planning department can be a member of the council. But you said that if your proposal were implemented, confidence in the council would increase. Explain exactly, though. If today the chief accountant of the municipality cannot be a member of the council at the same time, and then he could be both a member of the council and the chief accountant of the municipality, how will this increase people's trust in this municipality exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U27	Thank you very much. The staff member of the Planning Board can be on the council today. There is no provision to prevent this in any way. For example, the reception secretary of the planning office, as well as anyone who works for the planning office under a contract of employment, can be on the council. Mr. Kisler, our people are sending you this list. All contract staff in all planning offices can apply for the council as well as take up work at the council and continue in the current job. They have a contract of employment and then they can continue without any obstacles. There's no provision against it in any way. Officials can't, contractors can. Absolutely. Secondly, the chief accountant of the municipality must be an official and he cannot be on the council. But we'd be happy to send you a list of those reception secretaries and other contract agents who may be on the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U28	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U29	Thank you. Madam Chancellor! I wanted to ask you where the border is. You stressed here that you only looked at one case or one connection, but you also said one sentence that got my attention, even though I got smarter than your report. In particular, you said that there is no problem of separation of powers in the sense of the Constitution in the local government. Please specify this! Is that an absolute statement? It sounds like the parish government might be a member of the council. Or was it just a rounded statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U30	Thank you very much. Indeed, it is in the constitutional law that the local government and the state are in a so-called vertical separation of powers. The local government is classified, true enough, not as subordinate to the state's executive, but as a separate executive, and the separation of powers within it is not seen differently from the state. In other words, if the country has legislative, executive and judicial powers, the local government does not make such a distinction in the theory of constitutional law. Depends on the model of the country chosen, it is conceivable, in principle, that the limits of the right to vote are wider. But once again, we are talking about only one provision today, which says that if a person is set up to work with a municipality or city government, not to a managed institution or any other institution, then he may not be allowed to become a member of the council, but if he is an employee of another institution, then he may. We rather dispute that, in such a hypocritical and easy-to-know way, the interests of independent and honest people working under contracts of employment are being undermined.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U31	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, good waitress, for bringing this issue to this hall! I've been practicing in local government for 18 years. In 2009 in Pärnu, when the central party's city power ended, he ended it in 2009 so that by December the bills were empty, 10% of the budget was unpaid, i.e. the budget was 10% bluffed. I was wondering how this could have happened. This happened exactly so that half of the members of the then Pärnu council + 1 member were involved in financial contracts, urban budget: the managers of the offices, the managers of the city institutions, plus the fees for the council members of the city institutions (minimum salary per month, but the meeting took place once a quarter). This led to the city's budget, which was 10% bluffed, 10% deficit. How can we avoid such a situation when urban budgets are paid for the votes of the council?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U33	Thank you for this question. This is really a very serious concern. Unfortunately, even if the law remains the way it is now, the problem will not be resolved. These are two completely different subjects. In order for the situation you have described, which is truly regrettable and which, after all, is both a betrayal of the voter's trust and a waste of taxpayers' money, to end, we must find you. But once again, the law is currently in force as it stands. After all, all the negative examples you have given have arisen during the same provision. It is absolutely no matter whether or not that provision is there, these negative examples remain, unfortunately. Different measures are needed to eradicate them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U34	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U35	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Chancellor of Justice! We are saying that the situation is hypocritical now and that we want to change it to some extent. We talk about the rights of these people all the time. If our will is sincere, can we not restrict our rights? I am saying that once an official has given up his mandate three times, it may have been a coincidence, the second time it may have been a coincidence, but the third time it is a systemic behaviour. We will then deprive him of the right to apply to the local government before he, for example, changes in sex. How's that feel? Right now, the situation is hypocritical. Local government customer servicemen say that you choose me, choose me, then you get this, second or third service, and after the results are announced, they all give up their mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U36	Thank you very much. In order to combat the so-called decoy ducks, countries use very different measures; the Estonian Constitution trusts the elector above all here. But indeed, in some countries, it is only in the case of a very serious reason that the mandate can be waived, which means above all a reason relating to itself or close health, or on an objective basis, such as moving to another country. But otherwise, this person just doesn't have a thing for the election anymore, you cheat on the voter one time and that's it. In Estonia, this situation is considerably more liberal and trusts the voter's wisdom more.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U37	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U38	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! Am I right to understand that this problem actually stems from about five years ago when the public service reform took place and people, workers, had to choose and the government authorities had to decide who would remain a public servant and who would work on the basis of an employment contract? My question is whether this problem arose during this period. The next question: Did there be any real situations in which a person had to give up a council member's seat according to the form of his contract, precisely because he became a civil servant working under an employment contract? Did he have to take away the so-called mandate because of the law, or did he have to make that choice to give up?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U39	Thank you. The root of the problem, exactly as you said, is indeed in the time of the reform of the public service. Then Estonia tried to make the concept of an official very narrow and to limit it only to those who really exercise power and determine what taxpayers' money is for and what rights and obligations are for. Were there cases like this, we're not going to speculate right now. But once again, if this person is employed by a municipality or city government on the basis of a contract of employment, not on the payroll of one of his institutions or managing institutions, such as the reception secretary, and he or she is acceptable to the majority of the municipality or city government, then there has always been an opportunity to formalise him or her elsewhere and he or she will continue as a member of the council. Or he will be given good advice to take up the same work and, in this case, he will continue calmly as a member of the council. So if there is a desire to keep this person on the council, then there are all the possibilities, literally, to screw up, or sock: according to the law, everything is correct, but legally incorrect, in the sense that it is not reasonable, fair or honest. If there is someone who is independent and has a problem with the municipality or city administration, of course they are trying to create a situation where they do not belong to the council. This was also the case that reached the Supreme Court and on the basis of which the Supreme Court initiated the constitutional review procedure, which was still pending because the person was forced to withdraw the complaint.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U40	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! I come again to the situation described. Suppose that the parish elder's secretary, parish secretary or information desk employee becomes a member of the council after this procedure is changed, then he will also become a member of the audit committee and have to conduct an audit of the work of the parish government. Is and how does this increase confidence in the local government in people's eyes? I doubt that very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U42	Thank you very much. I remember bringing before you a report on the prevention of corruption in the local government. I am very grateful for the previous composition of the Riigikogu, which also realised part of it. Since 2021, these same school directors and other people who are very interested in things can no longer be part of the audit committee. Just as we explained in the discussion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs when the Riigikogu decides to support this proposal, it would be very important to consider that these employees should not be members of the Audit Committee from 2021, just as this will apply to other important people on the contract from that time on the Riigikogu's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U43	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Do you think that this amendment will not lead us to a situation where some officials will be converted into employees with a contract of employment? Also, as is known, an official and employee with a contract of employment have a certain discretion, and this is a work organisation agreement at the level of the municipality government. After all, there may also be a situation where we put these officials into work on a contract of employment, and yet this situation does not seem to be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U45	Thank you very much. That's a real problem. Of course we thought about it. In this case, monitoring shall take place. Any person whose duties are of an official nature must also be established as an official. When I presented the local report on combating corruption before you, in fact, in the previous formation, it was a request to make sure that officials were not made into contract staff. At the time, an elder's counselor, who was an official, was remembered as a cause of corruption and could not have continued as an official if he had been convicted of a corruption crime. He was taken back to the exact same position as a contract agent. This must not be done, and there are surveillance measures that prevent it. With the same request for these measures, I was in front of you and I am pleased that part of this report has also been realised. I do not see such a risk in this proposal. At least this risk does not increase because, at present, if there is a municipal or city official who is also wanted to be present on the council, he will be made a contract employee in just another institution, and all opportunities will be open. But we must stress that if the content of a person's duties is official work, he must also be made up to work as an official. This also means that if, for example, he has previously been convicted of stealing from the people of the same municipality, he cannot continue to exercise any form of power.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U46	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, every member of the Riigikogu can ask a question to each of the rapporteurs. So, colleagues Tarmo Kruusimäe and Urmas Kruuse, you can ask questions to the next waitress. Thank you, Chancellor. No further questions for you. I now request Mr Vilja Toomas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U47	Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee presented the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to the Riigikogu to bring Article 18 (1) (6) of the Local Government Organisation Act into line with the Constitution at its meeting on 8 October. In addition to the members of the Commission and Commission officials, the Commission was invited by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, Head of the Legal Order Protection Department of the Office of the Chancellor of Justice Külli Taro and Senior Advisor Vallo Olle. Since we have been discussing this subject for quite some time, I will not go over what the Chancellor of Justice has also told us in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. However, it is my duty to report to you these questions and issues that interested the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Kalle Grünthal asked first, who also expressed the opinion that in smaller places it may be that if the council could vote on people working under the employment contract referred to in that provision, they could be influenced by the employer. Just as Ülle Madise has answered here several times, she also replied in the Commission that this problem still exists and that restrictions on the right to stand as a candidate do not solve these problems. He added that if the mayor or the mayor wanted to strengthen his vote on the council, he would still find a way to do so. In such a case, the provision of the service shall be purchased by contract or formalised by the person concerned on the salary of one of the institutions administered, such activity being legally correct. Külli Taro added that exactly the same theoretical possibility of influencing school directors, librarians and librarians is present. Ülle Madise went on to comment on the subject and said that the fundamentals of the rule of law preclude people being threatened with dismissal or offering them a contract of employment for taxpayers' money. Ülle Madise stated that it is possible that people could be biased, for example, in the process of planning or budget approval, but stated that ways had to be found to combat it. In Ülle Madise's opinion, it is neither constitutional nor reasonable to prohibit a person from being a council member. Member of the Commission Oudekki Loone gave an example of an accountant who attends municipal meetings in a small rural municipality government, participates in spending discussions and actually makes important decisions on monetary matters. At the same time, Oudekki Loone did not see a problem when, for example, an employee with a local government contract of employment, we bring this example all the time, the caretaker of the municipal tennis hall and stadium, would actually belong to the council. Oudekki Loone proposed that this situation be resolved with more stringent restrictions, also taking away the right of business to belong to the council. Ülle Madise replied that she felt that the right to stand as a candidate should actually be extended, not restricted, and that other methods should be used to combat corrupt guidelines. Mr Kiisler asked why he wanted to draw a line between officials and staff. In his view, a person working as an official could have the same right to belong to a council and, in the event of a conflict of interest, he could be removed from decision-making. On this point, Ülle Madise replied that the reason is that the contract staff perform assisted tasks, but the officials exercise power and take specific decisions. He pointed out that the border was still drawn between officials and employees with a contract of employment, and the Supreme Court did not consider it appropriate to widen it. However, as Ülle Madise stated earlier today, the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court, following the complaint made last summer and its withdrawal, has begun to deal with this topic independently in a few months' time. As a result, the Riigikogu has been asked to discuss this with one another. Taavi Kõivas stated that the logic of an official and employee has actually worked well, but the possibilities of abuse of power always exist. In such situations, a superior and subordinate relationship arises, so the superior is able to bully his subordinate because he belongs to another party or for some other reason. Ülle Madise replied that they have also studied the previous practice more thoroughly. Personal relations, influence and impartiality are a matter of internal dignity and cannot be cited as a reason for severely restricting the right to stand as a candidate, which is a fundamental right of a person according to the Constitution. Taavi Rõivas continued his question, giving examples of potential misuses in Tallinn, and made the same claim that there have been cases where members of the opposition are prohibited from belonging to the audit committee or have at least limited rights. Külli Taro (also the Chancellor of Justice has already pointed this out) replied that the previous composition of the Riigikogu adopted a provision of the Local Government Organisation Act according to which a member of the Audit Committee cannot be the head of a local government subsidiary. He added that if this proposal, which we are discussing here, were to be adopted and this amendment introduced into the Local Government Organisation Act, it could be that the contract staff who could then be members of the Council could not be members of the Audit Committee. Now, is there anything else important left uninvited to you? On behalf of Oudekki Loone, it was also proposed that the members of the council be paid, because then there will be no problem of looking for other places, because people could only work in one place, i.e. be members of the council. Oudekki Loone pointed out another topic on which we stopped for a while. He said that there might be a problem in a small local government that there are not enough qualified people who could be a member of the council, and that is why this situation has arisen, in fact, where all those who work at the same time in the municipal administration should be part of the council, and in that case they should use the form of a self-employed person or an OÜ. Vilja Toomast stated that this does not only concern small local governments; the same problem is the case in Tallinn, for example, where the council members often lack competence. Well, that's for short. I didn't tell you all the questions and answers because there were a lot of them. You have already received answers to the questions, which essentially duplicated the Chancellor of Justice's presentation. I still have the decisions to bring. It was decided to appoint Vilja Toomas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur. We also voted on whether or not to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Outcome of the vote: 2 members of the Commission supported the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice, 3 opposed the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice and 1 abstention. That's all for now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U48	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U49	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good co-rapporteur! Although I heard that this problem did not sound in this debate, it just came out of the report by the Chancellor of Justice today, as an experienced person, you may be able to say whether the Constitutional Committee has the willingness to extend the concept of an official and whether the members of the Riigikogu have such a will?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U50	Thank you. We did not discuss this issue directly in the Commission, but I can say that when the Civil Service Act was amended in 2013, the local authority was left such limits to the extent that it can decide for itself whether a particular person works as an official or on the basis of an employment contract. Although, as the Chancellor of Justice mentioned, only an official can work in a certain position and the difference is whether he directly exercises power or not, that is the limit and the limit. For example, the stadium lawnmower has no chance of interfering with and exercising this power in the decision-making process of the local government. I don't know if that answers. No, we did not touch on this issue to expand it, but I repeat that the Civil Service Act leaves some opportunities and limits to the local government so that it can determine who the employee is and who is an official.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U51	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, In making his proposal, the Chancellor of Justice focused more on the figures that there are few people there, and those who are in councils are like the salt of the earth, and one and the same people must continue in several positions. Indeed, that is true, especially on Kihnu Island, where there are 600 people and less than 500 people choose. What about Tallinn? Are there really no people in Tallinn among more than 400,000 people to a council whose income is not dependent on the budget of this city? Do you think that the current situation in Tallinn, where the council members receive a living from the city's budget, has contributed to the development of the city?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U53	Thank you. I didn't realize the Chancellor of Justice was only talking about small parishes. In my opinion, he concerned all local government councils. In my reply, I also tried to mention, to put it mildly, that in Tallinn, the problem is actually that some of the members of the city council have got there because the second part is because of the very reason we are discussing here, that it has been forced to leave the council and that other people have been found in their place. But that's another subject. Is that moral? I know how to answer that, indeed, it is not moral, but the current laws do not allow a council member to be paid from the city budget using various means. As the Chancellor of Justice in the Commission has also stated, Mrs Ülle Madise, this is a question of human dignity, first of all, this dignity begins with the leaders of the city and the rural municipality and then goes down to say that who is prepared for such pranking, jogging or socking, whatever we call it. Now I've got more socks on the jacket. But this does not concern the proposal made by the Chancellor of Justice. Those are two different things. We cannot fight this unless we address this issue and take a positive view of what the Chancellor of Justice has proposed. Yes, it is a pity that this appeal was withdrawn from the Supreme Court last summer. The Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court would, I think, have already given some views and indications about whether and how to move forward with this issue. But I personally sincerely hope that we will move on with this, that we will leave this proposal in the process today, and that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will prepare a legislative amendment. Then we will have more detailed answers to all the questions, analyses will be done and we will also be able to address these issues. But once again, no law makes a man behave dignified when he lacks inner dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U54	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Let me remind you that all members of the Riigikogu can participate in the negotiations. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Chancellor of Justice! The problem that we have before us definitely needs to be resolved. Whether it is a directly unconstitutional situation or a judicial choice, it is the decision of this Chamber. The current law provides that groups of persons who receive money from the municipality in a way or another, or who are involved in decisions that depend on influence, are about four, as I mentioned earlier in my question. In other words, those who are directly affected are officials, employees with a contract of employment, managers of sub-offices and employees of other organisations or companies having a contractual relationship with the municipality. The current law draws the border exactly halfway, says that the members of the council may be anyone who is in a way or in another contractual relationship with the municipality, they are employees, owners or anyone of the organisation or company, and likewise the directors of the agencies may be members of the council, but the members of the council may not be employees and officials of the municipality or city administration. Now we are discussing whether this 'border' should be shifted between officials and staff. Actually, we should discuss it a little bit more widely. Of course, in my opinion, we must leave the Chancellor of Justice's proposal in the process today so that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs can unravel this issue, but also discuss precisely the question of where to draw the line. It is more of a judicial choice than a finding of an unconstitutional nature. If they do, and if this hall here finds that an official could be a member of the council, then I think it is purely theoretically possible. It is also theoretically possible to talk about what is used in some countries, that a member of the municipality and city government does not have a restriction on being a member of the council. We take it at national level: our own northern neighbours also have Members of the Parliament of the Government of the Republic. It's a legal policy choice to draw this line. Of course, whether or not a breach of an operating restriction takes place is a completely different question. Let's take the little parishes. Especially before the administrative reform, a schoolteacher, perhaps also a minister, a police officer, a headmaster, a director of a cultural house, belonged to the council. They all receive money in a way or from another municipality's budget. In that case, they should all reduce themselves, and then the question arises as to whether the council will have the opportunity to adopt the budget at all, because all the members of the council are involved in the way or in another rural municipality budget. Undoubtedly, the law must give an answer so that you can actually make that decision as a member of the council. Let's take a look at the substance. For example, an official who works in the municipality or city administration and, of course, also exercises public authority, and the headmaster of the school. The headmaster can belong to the council, but the official can't belong to it. I dare say here today that this official in a purely political view is not as much influence or politically weight as the headmaster, for example. But we say that, for example, a welfare specialist, who also deals with offences and therefore, in any case, is an official, must not belong to a council, but the headmaster may belong to it. In fact, it is very difficult to draw this line, on the one hand, but on the other hand, of course it must be drawn somewhere. Therefore, the fact that the Chancellor of Justice brought this question to us on this table gives us an opportunity to resolve this situation. So, good groups, I call on everyone to seriously think about the issue of where to draw the line for membership of local government councils, essentially, not just formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U56	Thank you. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Your Honor, Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to this remote control to convey to you the position and position of the Conservative People's Party Group on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice regarding the constitutionalization of § 18 (1) (6) of the Local Government Organisation Act. The EKRE Group has listened attentively to the position of the honourable Chancellor of Justice, listened to the issue of this issue, the approaches that concern it, which could lead to a contradiction with the Constitution, or to the problems that exist here at all, which are supposedly in conflict with the Constitution, and has found that there is, however, no fundamental contradiction with the Constitution. Similarly, there is no contradiction with § 5 (5) of the Local Government Council Election Act, not to mention the contradiction with the Charters of the European Union. In the present situation, it is rather personal choices, legal policy choices and questions, and certainly also a dilemma in the interpretation of the rule of law, where some problems can be seen if they wish. As the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court has also stated in its decision 3-4-1-53-14, it may indeed be possible to consider a more precise, clearer wording of the law, in the case of existing norms and functioning legal relationships, in order to prevent hypocrisy, OÜ and other similar practices already referred to. The objective of the section under review is primarily to prevent a person with important information, power control and a leading decision-making process in the local government, a member of the council, from becoming in a situation of conflict of interest, and thus also in a situation conducive to corruption. I recall that conflict of interest is a conflict between official duties and private interests, where private interests can affect the performance of official duties and vice versa. The EKRE Group is of the opinion that the amendment proposed by the honourable Chancellor of Justice could increase the risk of corrupt income (I refer here to § 4 of the Anti-Corruption Act) or the likelihood of corrupt use of inside information, the sharing of jobs that has been repeatedly referred to here, etc. The Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court has stressed in its decision 3-4-1-17-10 that § 18 (1) (6) of the Local Government Organisation Act is without prejudice to the disproportionate right to exercise the mandate obtained in elections. This rule provides for a ban on the unification of posts, and it has also been the will of the legislator: 'This prohibition serves to strengthen the separation of functions and responsibility of local authorities in an organisational manner against the risks that may arise from the unification of positions and mandates within the representative body. ' The College took the view that, in order to achieve this objective, there is no means other than stopping the mandate of a council member who has taken up the rural municipality government and the early termination of the mandate of a council member who has taken up the service of the rural municipality as an official. The difference in treatment between a member of a municipality or city government and a municipal or city official is justified by the fact that a member of the government bears political responsibility to the council, whereas a municipal or city government official is responsible for service under the Civil Service Act. ' Moreover, in 2013, as we know, the amendments to the Act of 1 April made the effects of the rule under examination even stronger, adding to the council member the ban on working in the same rural municipality or city authority on the basis of a contract of employment. At that time, the legislator had in mind the need to ensure separation of functions and responsibilities of the municipality. Today, however, the Honorable Chancellor of Justice has addressed the legislator with a fundamental desire to remove the restrictions previously deliberately created by the legislator, which the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court has not observed since today. To give an example, you might say that in a situation where we sense that people are going drunk anyway, it is possible to lose the ban on drunken driving by law. It was, of course, Utration. The question is whether to change the norm or whether there is a contradiction with the Constitution. The EKRE Group has carefully considered the proposal submitted by the Honorable Chancellor of Justice to bring the law on the organisation of local government into line with the Constitution, but does not see any conflict with the current constitution or the yelling need to amend the law in this sense, which is why the group has taken a position not to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U58	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U59	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honorable Chancellor of Justice! I very much agree with the description of the situation presented by Mr Pevkur, but in addition to these four species, these are employees of a company belonging to the local government, who are obviously in many ways influenced by the decisions of the local government. Indeed, somewhere we need to draw this line if we are not to take the view that we are going to give everything completely free, and then every time the council is considering whether or not there is a conflict of interest, but I believe that, for example, for a member of the municipal administration, this situation would be very difficult if it was constantly to be considered and whether to vote or not to vote. I agree that there is a problem in this sense that if we try to draw this line in such a very simplified and formal way, as we have done so far, then a social worker, who may be taking care of the old people somewhere in the municipality, cannot be a member of the council, but at the same time, as many of us have certainly noticed, fights and is very active in the council for a higher school budget. I'm sure there's a serious problem. However, I do not agree that we can say so simply that, if we now draw this line very formally to another place, we are currently in conflict with the Constitution, but now we are bringing it into line with the Constitution. In the same way, the possibilities of bypassing as described by the Chancellor of Justice remain. The new border proposed by the Chancellor of Justice can also be played in the same way, and the situation remains where a social worker cannot be a member of the council, but the headmaster can. That's not the solution. I do not see any substantive contradiction with the Constitution. That is why I think that yes, we should analyse and we should address the issue of how we can achieve a situation in order to build trust in the local council. I would like to stress once again: the fact that, for example, the head accountant of the municipality has the right to participate in the work of the council as a member of the council does not in any way increase people's trust in the municipal council. That is why I propose not to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, but to analyse this problem is there and the members of the Riigikogu should also continue to deal with it. As far as our little dispute with the Chancellor of Justice is concerned, I really do not know any local governments in Estonia where there would be a planning authority and its employees could be a member of the council under the current law. I look forward to this list from the Chancellor of Justice. I know two municipalities with a planning office, and these are both authorities, not managing authorities. But I look forward to this list from the Chancellor of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U60	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U61	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! We're all here today full of will, or it's like we don't have that will. The small latch referred to by the Chancellor of Justice, and also marked by Vilja, actually minimizes this great idea itself. We marginalized the subject. The stadium janitor, or let's just say that every janitor really wants to be on the council, but since he's an official, he can't be there. We found out two very important things. Firstly, other countries have regulated in such a way that the concept of an official is broad, but we have it narrow and we do not want to change it, we do not have the will. The other thing is that if the so-called decoy ducks or, let's say, those social workers who serve people every day and say that this support is possible because our men are stuck here, and then don't forget us on election day, they're reducing themselves, here we trust the voter. So why doesn't this voter trust this houseman so much that it takes its twenty thousand votes, goes there and says that now my wife's OÜ is offering this service and my mother-in-law OÜ is offering this service? After all, the voter is also our employer. I can only talk about the voters of a few other people, because my constituents know me and they remember who they voted for, but in three months' time, many voters will not remember who they voted for. On this point, we overestimate a number of voters and say that maybe time itself will shake things up. So I get a little bit confused about whether this stadium janitor doesn't want to clean up this stadium. Maybe we've done the wrong stadium, maybe he's on the wrong stadium. But the problem is that he should have the right to apply, we won't take it away. If elected, when it comes to a very capable person, he could actually become the buffet keeper of this stadium, for example. The only job that feeds is cooking, I know it from my own hands, I'm a paper cook. So how decisive it is that if I'm on the council, I can no longer be a stadium manager, in which case I may be the provider of the stadium cultural programme. That person could be a little smarter himself. Look, I would understand if we were to widen the concept of an official and that if, after all, the mandate has been waived three times, that person, no matter if he changes his name, can't apply again. I say, then let him change the sex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U62	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish for negotiations. We are done negotiating, and we can go to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with 37 abstentions. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U63	Let's keep going. The second item is the first reading of § 61 of the Supplementary Act 79 of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. As a waitress, I would like to ask Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U64	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It's a pleasure to be here in front of you again. Today, I present the draft Act on Supplementation to § 61 of the State Pension Insurance Act 79. The question of why we come here in the first place is probably clear to the entire Estonian parliament, I believe that the general public of Estonia too. We know that older people often live below the limit of relative poverty in Estonia. Let's look at the latest statistics (no recent one): As of 2017, almost half of older people lived below the limit of relative poverty. When we talk about pensioners living alone, this percentage was regrettably much higher, in the order of 80%. This is unfortunately the worst indicator in the context of the European Union. Perhaps we are behind both our wealthier countries and, in fact, behind many of our own, or even weaker, economies. So additional contributions to pensions are essential and indispensable. The Government of the Republic has repeatedly addressed pension issues in the state budget negotiations. We discussed this for the first time already in June, also during the summer, we looked at the financial opportunities, we discussed the budgetary opportunities for 2020 and what are the opportunities for the coming years. Unfortunately, we have to admit that the financial projections were clearly more skeptical than the known information said a few months before the elections. Therefore, as much money as we wanted to be allocated to the pension increase could not be allocated, but it is a sign that the extraordinary pension increase will take place and, with indexation, the average old-age pension will increase by EUR 45 as of 1 April 2020, which is the largest number in the last 12 years (if you look at the years 2009 to 2020). So we are moving clearly in the right direction, towards improving the well-being of the elderly, but of course there is still a great deal of work to be done here. More specifically, in figures: as I pointed out, the average old-age pension will rise to 528 euros on the forecast plus the 'base' increase, the base part as such will rise to 208.5 euros as a result of pure indexation, plus the increase in the 7-euro base, the base part will be 215 euros, the annual pension grade is estimated to be 7.1 euros. The national pension rate, i.e. the poorest part of our elderly, will also rise by 8%, or EUR 221.63, according to the index. The public budget resources that must be spent in this area, despite the modest increase, are still very large. Even this 7 euro increase in the first year, 2020 will cost 20.8 million. Some money comes back from consumption taxes and also from other taxes. There will also be extra money for the sickness fund, in accordance with the decision of the previous government, and the procedure approved by the previous parliament, the state will also pay health insurance for all non-working old-age pensioners, so with an extraordinary increase in pension we will actually increase the health insurance fund's budget, which is very positive in itself. If you look at four years in total, the cost of an extraordinary pension increase in the state budget is EUR 114 million for 2020/2023. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: When it comes to the entire 'pension budget', in 2020, the state will contribute EUR 2 billion to pay pensions, which is the highest cost taken individually. The tide is in the order of 180 million. That concludes my brief review and I am happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U65	Thank you, Minister. Indeed, you have questions. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U66	Thank you. Thanks for the presentation. You probably agree with me that the Prime Minister is probably the most informed person in Estonia. Perhaps only one person is even more informed of him, and this is the head of the Prime Minister's office, who you were during the previous government. Therefore, both you and Jüri Ratas knew the financial situation of Estonia best of all people. As a result of this information, you promised voters that you would increase the average old-age pension by exceptionally EUR 100 in 2020 and keep the average old-age pension exempt from income tax, applying an additional EUR 250 tax exemption, raising the basic exemption to EUR 750. We are now faced with a draft, which states in black in white that the extraordinary pension increase will be EUR 7 and the average pension will be subject to income tax. Why did you lie to your voters or to all the voters like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U67	Thank you for your question. Of course, you referred correctly, both the Prime Minister and the head of his office must be informed of the state of Estonian finances. Indeed, we were aware of what the Ministry of Finance had pointed out in the forecasts, just as the Reform Party had drawn up and, as all political parties have drawn up their electoral platforms on the basis of the then forecasts. I may be wrong in my head, but I think the cost of the Reform Party's electoral platform was 1.4 billion, we had 1.5 billion. If I was wrong, correct me. All political parties were based on the information available, based on the knowledge available, and in the same way on the Prime Minister's office. We didn't have any secret predictions, any other data under the counter, we were based on the exact same numbers that were available to the public at the time. It is true that next spring, perhaps after the parliamentary elections, when the Ministry of Finance prepared a new forecast, this forecast and, consequently, the country's budgetary strategy were clearly more pessimistic and showed that some taxes were not received as expected. While some taxes were received faster than before, they should have been collected even more quickly, given the economic context. Therefore, certain corrections were also needed in the budget. As far as election promises are concerned, this is such a nice subject where everyone can throw the ball back and forth. I remember different promises, too. I remember that, for example, in 2007, the questioner's home party promised to double the average pension. How long did it really take? Ten years. Promised in four years, took ten years. We have seen many such promises in history. The fact that you want to raise your pension is very positive is what you wanted. Yes, in the meantime, there was an economic crisis, but after that there were also very many years of uprising, and still it took ten years to fulfil this promise, which was promised to do business in four years. We won't be that long. We will make 45 euros out of this EUR 100 increase in 2020 and we will do the next EUR 55 soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U68	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U69	Thank you. Good minister! I believe that you are a little unfair against the Ministry of Finance if you say that the anonymous economic forecast is to blame. Because the proportion of pension growth that depends on growth is pretty good, 38 euros. It is automatic according to the index, according to the law adopted in 2007 in this very hall. I believe that this problem is still more in the structural minus of the billion that has been created between 2017 and 2019, and therefore there is also a need to improve the budgetary position in 2020. But here's my question. After all, the increase in the average pension is neither 45 euros nor an extraordinary pension increase of 7 euros, because we all know that the first time in Estonia's history is starting to take income tax on the average pension. Of this 7 euro, 80% will go back to the country as a tax and 1.40 will be left. Why is the current government the first in Estonia's history to take income tax on an average pension, i.e. to take back a large part of the pension to the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U70	Thank you very much. Let me clarify the question first. In fact, however, the tax-free income is calculated over the year, which is EUR 6000. If the pension rises from 1 April 2020, it means that the simple act that you did at the moment cannot be done. The person has received a somewhat lower pension for the first three months, nine months will be higher, his tax-free income will count for the whole year and the income tax on the pension will not be paid as much as you referred to. But it depends on the person's income, of course, whether he has extra income, etc. As far as the payment of income tax is concerned, there has been a practice in the past that there have been two separate tax-free incomes: there has been so-called general tax-free income and there has been a tax-free income for the elderly. It is also true that about half of the elderly have always paid income tax, because even if we raise this tax-free income plus the additional tax-free income of the elderly to the two together to the average pension rate, this means that over-average pensions are still paid by 50% of the elderly, who also paid income tax at the time. So in this sense, the view that the proportion of those who pay income tax has increased very, very much, is not really bad. Rather, by raising the tax-free income to 500 euros in previous years, the proportion of older people who had to pay income tax on pension fell, as most pensions were well below 500. Now it's really the first time it's risen to over 500. The government will have to discuss in the spring what will be the future tax policy in this area: whether we are talking about, for example, the additional tax exemption for the elderly in the case of tax reform, whether we are talking about some sort of tax-free income calculation of income, such as survivor's pension and other types of income, or whether we are really talking about the restoration of the individual tax-free income of the elderly, which requires major IT developments, as well as legislative changes. These are all options on the table, and everything needs to be negotiated. Why did we decide to make an extraordinary pension increase this year rather than increase the tax-free income? Very simple. This extraordinary pension increase supports precisely the poorest of pensioners, including those who receive less than EUR 500, including those who receive, for example, EUR 400, EUR 350. Unfortunately, there are also a great many of them. This option is also much easier to do; it does not require several million IT costs; it does not require major complex legislative changes. This requires the clarification of a particular paragraph and the addition of paragraph 17. This extraordinary increase compensates for any possible tax expense on the average pension. Plus, as indicated, it supports the poorer part of society, or those whose pension is less than EUR 500 both today and from April onwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U71	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U72	Thank you. Now, Mr. Swing, don't whine so much and don't lie so much. I can't point everything out because you talk the hall to death, everyone's asleep. My question is that you're coming up with a 1.4-dollar pension increase, you're talking about this as an extraordinary rise. All right, smaller pensions are up to 7 euros. Up to 7 euros, the average pension still rises to 1.40. Last night, Eesti Pank published a very single analysis that the dismantling of your second pillar reduces pensions, reduces economic growth and thus again reduces pensions and makes the economy even more volatile. How do you put these two things together? I sense it as a uniting crime. You share the pie, but the people are suffering. How do you combine the pension reduction in the future with this extraordinary increase of 1,40 now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U73	Yes, we can really discuss tax-free income accounts after all, if there is a wish, because it is not quite the way I referred to it once. But as far as this extraordinary increase is concerned, no matter what amount we're calculating here, it's 1, or it's 2, 3, or it's 7, it's still significantly more than 0, which was in 2008, 2009 and so on. As you asked, I take the liberty of answering. As far as the other side of the question is concerned, I will also answer that question. [[A voice from the hall.]] May I answer that? I'll answer the other side of the question. As regards Eesti Pank's primary impact analysis, Eesti Pank's role is to highlight its own vision, potential risks and opportunities to mitigate these risks in major economic policy decisions. They have also been discussed much in the government, both within the government working group and at the government office level, they will be discussed further, certainly also in Parliament. The question is that when we talk about changes to the second pension pillar, their exact effect depends on the behaviour of a particular person, it depends on whether he or she continues to collect. I'm sure a lot of people will continue. I'm among them. Depends on whether the person invests this money, for example, through an investment account or whether he spends it on something else. It is certainly reasonable to invest pension money, precisely to use it to ensure better livelihood in old age. I certainly agree that it is not intended for running costs; it is not intended for the development of emotion. So I'm sure there's a very important role to play here in the behaviour of every human being himself. The role and opportunity of the government is, of course, to provide information on the one hand and, on the other hand, to increase solidarity in the pension system by gradually increasing the first pillar, and to guarantee people a decent income, including those who have not joined the second pillar. Not only must we think about future pensioners, which is, of course, very important, but we also have to think about today's elderly people whose pension, as referred to earlier, is unfortunately low in the context of the European Union, accounting for 40% of the average net wage. Our own neighbours, Latvia and Lithuania, are able to secure 50 to 60%, and the wealthier countries in Europe can guarantee 80 to 100 percent. In any case, we have to deal with both the future of the pension system and the improvement of the well-being of today's elderly, which, indeed, has been too little in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U74	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U75	Thank you. Dear Minister, We know the results of the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which shows that in order for pensioners to cross the limit of relative poverty on average in 2020, the pension needs to be increased exceptionally by EUR 80 instead of EUR 7 or EUR 1 and 40. The limit of relative poverty is expected to be EUR 607 next year. In fact, it could be said that the number of elderly people living in poverty is increasing rather than decreasing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U76	Thank you for your question. However, this is not the case, based on our forecasts. Of course, we can see it in the final numbers. Depends on what the impact of the tax-free income system will be, which we will see best when, at the end of the year, the figures for the relative poverty rate in 2018 come: how much of the rest of the Estonian population lived below the poverty line and how many of the elderly lived below it. As far as the 2020 poverty threshold is concerned, of course, it continues to be higher than the average pension. As referred to earlier, he was significantly higher in the past. In 2017 (I will say, I hope I am not mistaken) the average pension was EUR 416 and if the poverty threshold was more than 520, then the difference was more than 100 euros. So this difference will gradually decrease, hopefully. I have previously pointed out that an extraordinary pension increase of EUR 7 is certainly the first measure, with indexation being an increase of EUR 45. It is not meant to be that we are now forgetting the pension increase, on the contrary, we will be raising it in the coming years. As I pointed out, it would certainly have been necessary to increase significantly more pensions in the last ten years in order to get closer to the same poverty line in order to achieve a reasonable and dignified relationship with average wages in the European Union. We must certainly continue to work here, both in today's Parliament and in the next one, and in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U77	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I looked at the explanatory memorandum to this bill. It says in at least two places that the indexation will result in an 8% increase in pensions next year. But how much will pensions rise next year because of your extraordinary pension increase? What's the percentage? Reminder to you: during the 2005-2007 period, the extraordinary pension increase was 40% in two years. So please tell me that percentage. How much will the pension rise next year as a result of an exceptional pension increase, as a percentage? In particular, please indicate the total amount and net amount after deduction of the additional tax burden. As we know, the additional tax burden will be added next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U79	Thank you. I'll start at the end. I also pointed out earlier that the person's tax burden on today's system depends on his or her income, depending on what his or her average income for 12 months is, whether he or she has any additional income. So saying a single number would be misleading. As far as pension increases are concerned, indexation plus an extraordinary increase will raise the average pension by almost 9.3%, i.e. an additional contribution is necessary to ensure that pension increases are faster and higher. We can always, as I said, make fun of this 7 euro, take this amount apart, discuss how much it is going to be a tax and how much it will not be a tax. As I referred to earlier, the investment needs are 114 million over four years. However, this extraordinary increase in pension is the first since 1 July 2007. Intermediate zeros have added exactly 0% to pension growth. So this contrast, that it is few, is politically understandable on the one hand, but on the other hand you can honestly look at the past, look in the mirror too: these ups have never been faster before; on the contrary, they have never been seen since the economic boom. As far as pension increases are concerned, this is the first step. The government has been in office for less than six months. There will certainly be these extraordinary and additional pension increases. You just have to be patient. The negotiations on the state budget must be continued, the possibilities of reviewing the state budget must be looked at as other sources of coverage. The government is certainly prepared to do this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U80	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Good Tanel! I remember that before the elections, the Centre Party collected signatures to support the 100-euro pension increase, I have such an imprint, and it was done very actively throughout Estonia. Perhaps you yourself were involved in collecting these signatures. Since I do not remember exactly, perhaps you may also be willing to refresh my memory: how many of these signatures finally gathered, have they now been handed over to the government by the Centre Party, and have the government given to those people who signed and to whom the Central Party promised a 100-euro pension increase, also answered and explained why one story was spoken before the elections and a different story was spoken after the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U82	Thank you. I'll be more specific. As you know, I worked for the Prime Minister's office, not the Central Party Bureau. I'm not so familiar with the overview of the collection of signatures. Surely you can direct these questions to the party bureau about how many were collected and whether they were handed over. Really, I didn't have to follow those details at the time. As far as this expectation is concerned, I fully agree that expectations are higher for people. The wishes of the Centre Party were greater; they continue to be greater. As I pointed out, just as previous governments did, today's government has had to reduce expectations on the basis of actual state budget opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U83	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I think you were wrong when you said that pensions have not risen since 2007. In times of economic crisis, pensions were something that was not cut. In this context, this meant that pensions were not being tackled in order not to worsen the financial situation of pensioners. But what is absolutely amazing is that you and Jüri Ratas, who are the chief architects of today's tax loss, have, in my opinion, been able to create a situation where the economy is growing, but the general situation of pensioners is actually deteriorating, also on the basis of the fact that you are taxing the average pension. That's why the average growth that people get, actually, is 1.40. What gives you the strength and courage to say in the parliament of the Republic of Estonia that you were not familiar with how taxes could be collected and what is the economic situation? In a short period of time, or three years, you were actually able to bring the budget of the Republic of Estonia into clear chaos.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U85	Thank you for your question. As I referred to earlier, pensions have not been exceptionally raised since 1 July 2007. You can control it, it's a fact. As regards other pension increases, of course pensions were raised according to the law. There were also years of 2010 and 2011, and I will say by heart, and I hope that it will not be wrong if the pension did not rise to any euro, despite the growth of the economy. There, the pension index in previous years was levelled down. However, in any case, the increase in pensions since 2008 or 2009 (in 2008 the index was very high due to previous year's tax receipts), i.e. the last 12 years, if you count the period from 2009 to 20200, has been rather small. What is positive is that in recent years this increase has been faster. However, as I pointed out earlier, the increase in pensions of EUR 45 is significantly higher than the average in previous years. It improves the well-being of the elderly, it helps to reduce the number of people living below the limit of relative poverty. So, unfortunately, the claim that the elderly would be in worse shape next year is not bad. Luckily, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U86	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U87	Thank you. Good Minister of Social Affairs! I don't think we're going to focus on the upsurge in pension by indexation right now. Your role here is small if not nonexistent. Let's focus on this extraordinary retirement that you're trying to paint here with a big mouth, and you said it's considerably more than zero. I'm sure it is. With this 1,40, it's possible that I just looked up the whole loaf of Homeland bread and, surprise-surprise, 11 cents left over. Do you have a wish, or do you feel that it would be the right place now, if people can watch the transfer at least tell the 80000 pensioners who have to start paying income tax and therefore lose, but also all pensioners, that this extraordinary pension increase of 1.40 means that the Centre Party, including you, has lied to Estonian pensioners and to apologize for it at 1.40? Really, it is, I think that all pensioners agree with it right now just a little funny how you try to play it very big.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U88	Thank you for your question. Of course, I am sorry that the pension increase is not faster. That's what I've said before. We wanted to raise more, that is what we want to do in the future. Give me some time, these ups will come. As far as the average pension increase is concerned, everyone calculates it as they wish. However, we are counting on the total increase in pensions, because indeed, for a person from 1 April 2020, both the impact of indexation and the impact of extraordinary pension increases will come. The two together are EUR 45, which is more than the pension has risen in any year since 2009. So the wish was to do more. I am sorry that there is no more, but by the fact that all that has now come to an extraordinary extent is to look at the evil and should have been done, as was not done in previous years, I do not agree either.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U89	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U90	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Centre Party has always promised a fairer country, it has been your basic promise for the last ten years. But in 2017, which was your first year in the government and whose budget you have already spent in 2016, relative poverty actually increased, especially among older people, as the net income went away on average. It is also beautifully seen in the tables attached to your draft. Now, if you raise your pension 7 euros, then at the same time, the net income will increase. This 8.4% of the pension may be less than the net wage increase during this period. Don't you think you're actually lying to pensioners again?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U91	Thank you for your question. I'll start at the beginning. The state budget for 2017 is now set up by the previous government in terms of history. It is true that some corrections were made during the parliamentary procedure, such as the allocation of extra money to farmers, changes in social tax were also made, the plan was to start to lower it, but it was left at the original level. Regarding the impact of the 2017 budget, to say that this is a new or, sorry, now a favor from the previous government, maybe a little too much. In reality, the impact of 2017 was the consequences of previous years' decisions. Of course, pension increases must be faster than average wage increases. As I calculated earlier, 9.3% will rise in April 2020 with an average old-age pension. This means that it is faster, both gross and net, than the average wage growth. Our own calculations also show that the impact of this particular decision will, however, reduce the proportion of older people living in relative poverty. What exactly are these numbers, we do not know at the moment, we do not know the figures for 2020 until the end of 2021, because it is statistics that are done afterwards. Therefore, the fact that we are currently operating with 2017 data does not result from laziness, but simply from the fact that there are no new numbers yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U92	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U93	Thank you. Good minister! However, let us remind you that the 2017 budget was handed over by the previous government in a structural surplus. There was also a very clear reason why he went into the big minus. It was this beer excise policy, which, I think, you have little interest in recalling. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The total budget for 2009 is, let us remind you again, a billion euros in structural disadvantages. But I do not want to talk about this EUR 7 and whether EUR 7 is comparable to the EUR 100 you promised. Let it be for the public to decide how many have been deceived and how many have not. But what still bothers me is that you will take back a very large proportion of pensions from people in the future as a tax, and that has never been done before by any government. This is even more severe for working pensioners. These pensioners, whether or not in the case of the lowest pension, have a higher income tax burden of up to 9 euros, i.e. in essence they have an extraordinary pension increase with a negative sign. What do you say to those older people who, in fact, because of this extra tax burden, will receive a lower pension increase than indexation would allow?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U94	Thank you very much. As this has sounded several times here, I will correct it for the sake of the parliamentary verbatim. For Riigikogu elections in 2019, the Centre Party set up a platform and I had the honour of chairing this task force at the time. There was a sentence: 'We will raise the average old-age pension in 2020 exceptionally, with an indexation of EUR 100. 'There was literally 'with indexation of 100 euros', that's the exact sentence. Anyone can read it. The party's promise was EUR 100 in pension increases with indexation. This time it will be EUR 45, which is not, of course, the amount that we wanted. Like I said, work continues. As far as different tax logics are concerned, it is not arbitrary to take the amount of the increase in this exceptional base, to calculate the income tax on the entire person's pension increase and to say that it is negative due to the exceptional increase. However, this is not the case. After all, for a person, the pension increases, both the net pension and the gross pension. The fact that the exceptional increase does not specifically cover some people's 'tax burden' is a separate issue. That's the logic of any salary increase at all. But if you look at the 45-euro pension increase and pick out 7 euros, it is an arbitrary activity, because the tax burden is not increasing because of this 7 but because of the 45-euro increase. We are, like, taxing a large amount of money, taking a small amount out of it and asking why this small amount does not cover this tax burden on the larger amount. As far as the budget for the previous years mentioned repeatedly in this Chamber is concerned, a number of fundamental decisions were indeed taken, such as the reform of tax-free income, which led to a very large number of people's income. The Reform Party has repeatedly attacked it, and it is doing so here today. Understandably, the worldview of each party is a little different, each party sees a fair tax policy differently. However, the decision at the time added 64 net euros to a large number of low-wage earners, up to 1200 euros, who were the majority in society at the time, they were not even a minority. So talking about this somehow in a negative key is however tending. As regards other decisions, which also affected the balance of the state budget, in addition to the reform of the tax-free income referred to before, a separate additional revenue base was made for local authorities, which have increased their income, giving them the opportunity to make more decisions on the ground in order to improve local life. In addition, it was decided that the Health Insurance Fund would allocate part of the health insurance for non-working old-age pensioners. Very many essential decisions were taken, in principle, which, of course, have had an impact on the state budget. The cost of the state budget has increased over the years. But can it be said that if we had not made these decisions, there would be a structural balance in the state budget today? I think it was better to make these decisions, to give this extra money to people, to give this extra money to healthcare, to give this extra money to local governments, as well as to rural areas. So I will remain a supporter of these decisions today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U95	Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to fit the question in one minute. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U96	Thank you. Why would you say that in front of my question? But, good Tanel, it is actually the case in Estonia today that a mobile phone should not be used when driving. I'll make sure you think it's okay to run a country. I don't think you should touch a lot of phones in there. If you're gonna do it and quote it, then quote it to the end. The next sentence of this quote you read to us is that we keep the average pension exempt from income tax. That's what you didn't read. But that's not my question. My question is this. Here some people are surprised that the Centre Party has promised and will not fill and 7 euros instead of 100, etc. I'm not surprised. Before the elections, you were briefed on your promises to the elderly in the previous period. We have come to the conclusion that you fulfilled 0.5 of the nine promises. Now you will fulfill your one promise of 0.07. I think you're gonna be zero boys at this rate. How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U97	Thank you for your question. While there was an apology for using electronic devices, but I have realised that many members of the Riigikogu are doing this, the second sentence you referred to was actually this: 'Only raising extraordinary pensions will guarantee 700 euros for the average old-age pension by 2023. ' It was actually, to be exact, this platform's next sentence. When it comes to fulfilling our promise, of course, while in the previous Parliament half the time in opposition, it was difficult to fulfil all the promises. Since the autumn of 2016, since November, the Centre Party came to the government, it is interesting that we are discussing so much of the past here and gradually began to fulfil these promises. The truth is that the wishes and requests were very high when we went to the 2015 elections. In the case of a party which has long been in opposition, it is understandable that there is a great deal to be done at once. Not everything was reached, although there was an increase in tax-free income, additional money was allocated to farmers, additional money was allocated to the local government, later also to health care, as I was referring to. Perhaps a lot of necessary decisions were made, and free public transport was also launched in counties. Raising the tax-free income of older people, as I pointed out, significantly reduced the proportion of those who had to pay income tax on pensions at the time. Previously, the ratio was exactly half, or 50%, at which point the tax-free income clearly passed the average pension for several years. Now this situation has come back and we need to start thinking about how to proceed with the tax-free system. These debates must be held. So I'm not that skeptical. I think we are already gradually fulfilling our promises. As I have pointed out, the government has been in office for less than six months, and the plan is to be four years. In four years, the picture will certainly be much better than today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U98	Thank you. The e-state has indeed reached Parliament. I see several members of the Riigikogu currently using electronic aids, but this is also allowed. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U99	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The European Commission has repeatedly raised the issue of adequacy of pensions in its annual state report on Estonia. It is certainly no surprise to you that, if you look at the relative poverty rate of older people in the countries of the European Union, Estonia will be the proud last place there, the last one from 28 countries. I've heard the representatives of the various parties on this board say that we wanted more, but the coalition partners didn't agree. I wonder what kind of pension you went to government with, or wish to rise, precisely you as Minister of Social Affairs of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U100	Thank you for your question. It is true that living the elderly below the poverty line is not only a problem for this government, but for all Estonian political parties, a problem for Parliament, a problem for the whole society that needs to be addressed. With regard to the increase in pensions, we discussed a number of measures at government level during the summer, if you want a 'historical clarification'. The debate was about raising the allowance for a single-living pensioner; the debate was about raising the average pension; the discussion was about, for example, increasing the number of shares; it was about an annual score for children; it was about creating a pension supplement for people with a lower pension, for example, or it was equal for everyone. There were so many thoughts. It was known that budgetary opportunities were limited. At the time, our proposal included estimates for different solutions, how much an extraordinary pension increase of EUR 70 would cost, how much a substantial increase would cost for a pensioner living alone, to multiply it. These were noted by the government at the time, and the agreement was that we would return to concrete amounts and opportunities in the discussions on the country's budgetary strategy. Unfortunately, when we sat at the table in the spring in Vihula and later in Stenbock, there was this money on our desk that we could share, in the amount of 84 million. If we were to split up 84 million, it would have been magic to make a very extraordinary pension increase of this kind. The truth is that we managed to level out this minus over the various years, either by using euro money or by delaying investment. We were able to do this in such a way that no euro was cut in the areas of social protection and health, but there was money in both areas. As we discussed yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs, the sector's budgets are in many ways increasing by more than half a billion euros by means of legislation. The amount going to pensions is also growing to the tune of 180 million, 21 million of which is the cost of extraordinary pension increases. As I have said many times, the wish was greater, in the coming years we will certainly come back to this issue. I think that Members of this House should hold the debate up and remind society that this is an issue that needs to be addressed. However, it must be taken into account that there are many other issues in society. 15 ministers are at the table; the state budget negotiations are always about finding compromises within the limits of budgetary possibilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U101	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U102	Thank you. Mr. Swing! There's only a few words to understand your whiskers. I didn't get an answer to my question at all. Try again. With one hand you are now raising your pensions by 0.26%, calling it a big thing, an extraordinary pension rise, you are lobbying here for an endless answer to every question. With the other hand, you will reduce future pensions by 30%, as shown by the analysis of Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance. Please answer the question! How do you explain this duplicity? How can you talk so long about this 1,40 and approve of a 30% pension reduction for those who behave with the second pillar as you allow?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U103	Thank you for your question. We are precise: I have not talked very much about EUR 1.40 here, I am talking about EUR 45, which is the total pension increase since April 2020. As regards the reform of the second pension pillar, of course these debates have been held and will continue to be held. As I pointed out earlier, the attention of Eesti Pank and the exposure to risks are gratifying, it is their job. Now we need to move forward with this debate, look at the opportunities to mitigate these risks, which are the decisions that are needed for people to make informed choices and for pensions to grow in the future, which will have an impact on the money that comes back to the economy, which is its impact on growth, on pensions. As I said before, we can never hold a debate so that we are only talking about future pensioners, we must also talk about the elderly today, who have been living well below the relative poverty line for many years now, and as has been pointed out. The government also needs to take steps to improve their well-being.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U104	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U105	Thank you. Dear Minister, Why are we talking about 1 euro and 40 cents? You are talking about EUR 45, and that is what you are talking about in the case of the average old-age pension, which will be EUR 528 next year. In fact, there are very many pensioners who receive less than average pensions, most of them. Can you tell me how much, for example, the pension for pensioners who receive 400 euros? In fact, they've been waiting most for this base to rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U106	Thank you for your question. In fact, about half of pensioners get under average old-age pensions and half over average. Maybe the median is pretty much the same place. As far as people with a lower pension are concerned, as I referred to earlier, this emergency pension rise decision is aimed at raising the base, and EUR 7 precisely helps them. Let's talk percentage. You gave an example of this EUR 400 pension, it will rise to EUR 439, it will continue to be tax-free, and it will result in an increase of nearly 10%. The rise in this pension is actually faster than the rise in the average pension, and faster than the rise in the pension of a wealthier person. It is also fair and appropriate for a country of solidarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U107	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Good Tanel! First of all, I apologise for some colleagues' maybe condescending tone and behaviour in the Riigikogu. I think we may have political differences, but we could still remain respectful of each other. So I'm sorry! Secondly, I owe you one more apology. I really apologize for linking you to the leadership of the Centre Party and the activities of the party. It's just, since we often met a few times a week at meetings at the Central Party office, I really forgot that you actually worked as the head of the Prime Minister's office at the time. It's my fault. I'm sorry! But I'm going to specify my question about the signatures. I imagine that when thousands of people's signatures are handed over to the government, it exceeds the news threshold, it is also being discussed in the government, and it gets attention. I will clarify my question: do I understand correctly that these signatures have not been handed over to the government, they have not reached your desk? So not only did you not raise your pensions, but did you collect signatures from thousands of people and just put them in a drawer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U109	Thank you for your question. The working days were really long at the time, there was a chance to meet you in different places, and I guess we'll see you in the future. As far as the collection of signatures is concerned, I will stick to my reply that it is more appropriate to ask the Central Party Bureau, who is behind the collection of signatures and knows exactly what was done, how many were collected, to whom they were transferred. It would not be right of me to take responsibility here and to give out any messages about a situation that I am not fully convinced of and not fully aware of.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U110	Yes, please, Mr. Kaljulaid! I think you have a procedural question. Do you want to confess that you collected these signatures yourself? Please! [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U111	Thank you, Mr President. However, I would like to make it clear that I put a very clear question to the respondent as to his role in the government, as to whether these signatures have reached the government. I didn't ask about the activities of the Central Party Bureau. I would very much ask you to respectfully tell the Minister to answer my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U112	The minister responds within the limits of his knowledge. Let's keep going. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The problem isn't even in this 1,400. The old saying of Estonians says that if you can't do it, don't do it, just wait for the moment you can do it. But all the experts predicted the situation with the budget. One of the reasons was the policy of the previous government led by Jüri Ratas, which clearly oversowed certain areas of money before the elections, including farmers, teachers, anyone. It was actually known. You yourself admitted to the remote today, and everyone remembers how you promised an extraordinary pension rise of 100 euros in isolation, but at some point this rhetoric changed and you even have a piece of writing to prove it. This actually shows that you were very familiar with the economy and the budget. Do you really believe that by such rhetoric, attitude and wrestling it is possible to manage the Estonian state well and offer solutions to different social groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U114	Thank you for your question. I will continue to stick to myself in this sense that I do not think that the forecasts given by the Ministry of Finance at the time would have been wrestling and somehow hiding the reality. Absolutely not. The platforms made from their surface exactly the same way, whether the Centre Party, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Reform Party or any other party were all based on the same numbers, the same considerations. They were also assessed at the time by the same ministry to see what the cost of various activities was. In this sense, to say that, in a situation where forecasts have been clarified in the meantime, the promises made from the past are a matter of wrestling, we are going to get back to the promises of the Reform Party very quickly, then it will be the arrival of the five richest countries or, as has been pointed out, the doubling of pensions in four years, which actually took ten years. If you bounce the ball back and forth, I'm not sure that's going to carry on the debate. With regard to the fact that you referred to the overriding or uplifting of different target groups, I do not remember exactly, I think it was very right to raise teachers' salaries; it was very right to give extra money to rural areas. I do not think the government should be reprimanded for these decisions, these decisions helped to move Estonia forward, helped to provide people with decent living wages, helped to improve the competitiveness of our farmers. So I will certainly support these decisions today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U115	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U116	Mr President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, So far, care has been taken to ensure that the average pension is not taxed on income tax. During the government run by the Centre Party, the average pension will be partly taxed on income tax for the following year. Another example. If, as a result of the new tax system, people are going to pay more income tax from the income limit of EUR 1760, then working pensioners will have a limit of EUR 1340. Why did you go this way to increase the tax burden on the elderly? The increase in the tax burden on older people also eats up most of this so-called extraordinary pension increase. Why are you raising the tax burden on older people when it is part of a society that is at the highest risk of poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U117	Thanks! As I referred to earlier, a debate must be held on the addition, improvement, development, modification of the tax-free system. Even the best thing can be made even better, so it is certainly possible to supplement the system of tax-free income and it will be necessary to add to it in the coming years. However, as far as the target group for older people is concerned, the introduction of this system at the time supported the majority of the elderly. In 2017, the average old-age pension was once again, I say, correct if I am wrong EUR 416, we increased the tax-free income to EUR 500 in 2018, the pension rose to EUR 446 at the time. In any case, it remained below it and, rather, it was the number of inactive old-age pensioners who had to pay income tax that fell back then. So it was just to support the less-serving. The same was true in the context of working people, as the tax burden on most workers, especially those with lower and medium pay, fell. As you yourself pointed out, in the order of EUR 1750 this border was then. Today, too, the average salary is below that. So in fact, this tax-free reform still supports all those earning less than average wages, as well as those earning less than average pensions. As far as 2020 is concerned, as I referred to earlier, the extraordinary increase in pension guaranteed that we would not only give additional money to the average pension recipients, compensating for their 'tax burden', but we would also give more to those pensioners who earn less than the average pension, to all those older people whose income is even lower than the average pension and who are really at the highest risk of poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U118	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U119	Thank you. Dear Minister, I ask you as Minister of Social Affairs of the Republic of Estonia, not as a member of the electoral panel of the Central Party. I read the Law of the Government of the Republic, which says that the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible as a whole for social protection and social security, including as an essential part of the pension system. The Ministry of Finance does not assume such responsibility under the law. Why is that important? You will be happy to talk about how EUR 7 has been fought for today's pensioners. I'm sure it's better than zero. But at the same time, you said very surprisingly recently in an interview that the things of the second pension pillar to you are nothing to do with anything, that this is a coalition agreement. I'm confused about the fact that they do. According to the Act of the Government of the Republic and the oath of office you have taken before the Riigikogu, you are in fact responsible for how the Estonian social protection and pension system as a whole works. That is why I ask how you assess the changes to the pension system that will be implemented under your leadership as a whole, how they are in line with your oath, according to which you need to stand up for the Estonian pension system to be sustainable in the long term and also to provide adequate social protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U120	Thank you for your question. I certainly have not said anywhere that the changes to the second pension pillar have nothing to do with me. You can't say that. All these are, as far as pensions are concerned, the pensions of today's elderly, future elderly or, let's say, working people, are, as we know, a social issue. The responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs is wide in Estonia. With regard to the reform of the second pension pillar, it is necessary to make well-considered decisions here, to look at their impact in the short and long term, to see that people have sufficient information, sufficient awareness of pension decisions and whether to use an investment account or other options to prepare for the pension, to raise pension money. Surely these decisions must not be made lightly either by man or by the state as a whole. As far as the specific draft law is concerned, according to the government's work plan, it is indeed the development of the Ministry of Finance, as has been the practice of the second pillar of the pension. We are the so-called inclusive partner there, who is precisely providing input on the part that may be these concerns and which have raised questions about the second pillar of pension arrangements. Of course we will do this work, we will continue to do so. The draft law has not yet been finalised and therefore it has not been possible to draw final conclusions or evaluate it. I am sure that this time will come, and there will certainly be a debate. I am sure that serious debates will also be held here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U121	We'll continue. Peter Ernits is the next questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U122	Good manager! Good performer! The expenditure of the Estonian state on pensions is ridiculous. It's a shame that we're in this position. Against this background, the increase in each cent is only positive, so it is not worth ridiculing this additional EUR 7. But I'm asking you as a government strategy. Prime Minister Ratas has said that the Estonian Government, under his leadership, is moving steadily towards fulfilling the obligations of climate neutrality. But this represents 2% of GDP per year, or roughly 600 million. This 7-euro pension increase will cost the government about 20 million. If I wanted to raise $70, it would be $200 million. Where do you intend to take this money to raise pensions in the future if we have a duty to prevent the end of the world, which Prime Minister Ratas is trying to avoid by moving towards climate neutrality? Where do you get that money? I'd like to hear what you think of as the main strategy. Let's look at the big picture!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U123	Thank you for your question. It is very positive that this debate has become broader. As far as climate neutrality is concerned, I certainly think that this is the right direction for the government to move to and where the whole of Europe is going. The question is that these investments, as well as the sources of cover, come in a great deal from European Union funds and agreed measures. For example, if we improve the energy efficiency of apartment buildings, buildings at all, we will actually reduce people's heating bills. If we put less polluting means of transport on the move, then electric cars or this rail electrification, then we will improve the living environment, improve people's health, contribute to the growth of healthy years. So all such measures are linked. Rather, I see investment in the environment, investment in a healthy and, specifically, in an environment that supports people in a very clear positive way in relation to my field, or the social sector. In most cases, when we are talking about concrete measures, euro money, for example, which is intended to meet climate objectives, they could not have been used for either an extraordinary increase in pensions. Each euro must be used to move towards a specific objective, of course in a reasonable way, looking at what is possible from the point of view of the country, precisely by looking at taxes, as indicated, because of the reduction in heating costs for people, also because of energy efficiency in the wider sector, as well as in agriculture. So I think this is the right direction. This money must be agreed more precisely in the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy. We have already held these first debates, and the European Union funds have been very clearly of great help and will continue to be.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U124	Annely Akkermann, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U125	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! If I listen to your presentation and read in parallel the explanatory statement of this bill that you have submitted, it will be remembered that the old people say that their mouth sings, their heart worries. It's like what you're saying is very nice, but the figures in this explanatory statement are more than worrying. In 2016, you received a surplus budget from the Government of Taavi Rõivas and since then, 2017 and 2018, the ratio of the relative old-age pension to the net monthly wage has steadily decreased. This document also predicts that in 2020 the relative poverty threshold will be EUR 607. Do you believe that relative poverty does not grow, and why do you increase relative poverty by taxing an average pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U126	Thank you for your question. As far as the different numbers are concerned, the limit of relative poverty is, of course, moving upwards, but hopefully the proportion of people living below that limit will decrease. As regards, for example, these figures of over EUR 600 in 2020, as I referred to earlier, the relative poverty threshold in 2017 was EUR 523 and the average pension at that time was EUR 416, i.e. the difference was EUR 107 at the time in fast mathematics. In 2020, this gap will be significantly smaller, with an 80-euro range. Of course, it is not enough to get all the elderly out of there, this work needs to be continued, and that is what we are doing. As far as living on the borders of relative poverty of older people is concerned, I would point out, just in case, that not only pensioners are meant here, they are 65 years old and older, but there are also working and other people among them, so one cannot compare these numbers to one. For example, looking at an average pension below the limit of relative poverty does not automatically mean that over half of older people live below the poverty line. This means that only those living on the pension are really below it, but all those pensioners who have some additional sources of income are hopefully above it, and that is why this percentage has been under 50 throughout the ages. Although, as I have pointed out, the difference between the average pension and the poverty threshold has been more around EUR 100, even above, and is now gradually falling, or a positive trend has come in.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U127	Kristen Michal, next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U128	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! History is such a beautiful thing. In the meantime, I looked up the excellent article on how Korb, the Secretary - General of the Centre Party, was in Läänemaa in January 2018. The question was then asked how the party intends to pay attention to pensioners. 'Money,' answered Korb,' says the article. Korb stated that the Centre Party would allow an extraordinary pension increase to take place, which, according to the Korb, would amount to approximately EUR 100 and would take place in 2019 or 2020. How does it feel how much this 100 has become?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U129	As I referred to earlier, there really was a promise in the party's electoral platform that, with indexation, we will increase pensions by EUR 100, with the help of an extraordinary rise. It will be possible to make EUR 45 of this next year, after which, of course, this work will have to be continued. The fact that politicians' statements have been more ambitious is in itself a very common practice in Estonian politics, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Social Affairs! You know the history of Estonian politics well. You can assume that from your answers today. Because of your youth, your retirement age is a somewhat abstract future for you, but it is because of your youth that you should have a very high dose of idealism. Can it therefore be hoped that the next time today's Prime Minister allows round and extraordinary pension increases before the elections, you will tell him that stop, let's not create illusions, or, frankly, let's not lie to people who are mature? It's kind of a personal question, but I appreciate it if you answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U131	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U132	Thank you. It is true, as I pointed out earlier, that the promises made by very many, if not all, parliamentary parties were more ambitious than it later became clear that the budget would allow. Similarly, a number of Reform Party leaders have recognised, for example, that the promise of a uniform tax-free income of EUR 500 for all would not have been realistic or feasible given the prospects of the new budget. In this sense, several political parties, the Centre Party among them, have had to correct their promises. Certainly, the Reform Party should have done the same when it came to the government. I think everybody's got a little lesson to learn from this. Just as, perhaps, during the economic boom in 2007, promises made a few steps ahead of real life, if not to say that they were quite apart, they certainly made promises before the 2019 elections, which are very difficult to fulfil in four years. Each party needs to know what their priorities are. The extraordinary pension increase is certainly one of the main issues in the Central Party's view, and we hope, as I said before, to fulfil these promises, not perhaps in one year, but divided over the years. The goal as such must always be high. In this sense, the aim cannot be resented, but the truth is that budgetary opportunities have been less than the knowledge of all parliamentary parties prior to the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U133	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U134	Thank you. I will continue with the previous question. You said you hadn't claimed that the other pension pillar and its changes were none of your concern, but then you started talking about what the Ministry of Finance was doing, and now you're giving advice from the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'll ask you again. In your interview, you said that the first pillar is not enough to survive in the future. There is really no point in using a tie page of freedom of choice here, which you have also done in interviews with others. The analysis of Eesti Pank yesterday revealed the results of Estonia's natural experiment. Those who in their time joined the second pillar have more wealth than those who did not. On average, people did not invest this two percent extra income but simply consumed it. These results are a fact, there are no forecasts or other future analyses required. Now the argument is brief. Thus, the first pillar is insufficient, if the pillar is to volunteer, a large number of people are to withdraw money and, in turn, a large part not to invest but to spend it. So it is reasonable to assume from the past, there is no reason to assume otherwise. The result is greater social poverty and growing inequalities. Why don't you vet that decision as Minister of Social Affairs when you say that it is essentially a bad decision that doesn't correspond to the task assigned to the Ministry of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U135	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, I will stick to my previous answer again. Of course, these changes must be made so that people understand very well the meaning and long-term impact of their choices, so that they know that if they had to spend the money collected in the pension pillar, leave the pillar and do nothing else, perhaps they would not invest, create an investment account or do anything else, their pension would probably be lower in the future. I think most of them will still be collected in the second pillar. As regards those people who, while abandoning the second pillar, invest, for example, in investment accounts, real estate or other measures, their pensions may overall be as high as those who join the second pillar, perhaps higher, depending on the investment skills of the person and the level of investment, whether the same amount that has been invested in the second pillar is invested or, for example, some more. It depends entirely on the person, it depends on the person's skills, information, time to manage the investment. Yes, as I have pointed out, I very much agree with the concern expressed by Eesti Pank; the role of the government and the parliament is to see to what extent risks can be mitigated, to what extent it is possible to make these situations as clear as possible to the person in order to support reasonable choices. That is certainly what I consider to be very right as Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U136	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. A moment ago, you were called the Chief Strategist of the Central Party in this hall. One of the main promises of the Centre Party before the elections was that the pension would rise to EUR 100. As the political party's main strategy, you must have known how much it would be possible for the state to raise its pension in 2019. Didn't you really know the possibilities of the country or did you mislead the electorate? Or where did that 100 euros go?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U138	Thank you. As I referred to earlier, certainly no political party or the Centre Party had any different financial forecast as a result of their presence in the government, a different budget table than the one used by the public, parliamentarians, ministers in their work. Indeed, on the basis of the same analyses, the same forecasts, electoral platforms were carried out. You referred to 2019, you probably meant 2020. It is true, as I pointed out, that instead of EUR 100, pensions can be increased by EUR 45 in 2020, but we will continue to rise in the future. Election promises are to be fulfilled, and the Centre Party and the entire government are to make sure that the pension grows faster in the coming years than it has done so to date.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U139	Kristen Michal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U140	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! You said nicely that everyone has a lesson to learn from this story. This is exactly the kind of situation where, in the absence of a better word, the Centre Party will say so, I'm sorry! He lied to the voters, to the pensioners. The voters should probably be in a situation where they learn that these promises do not have to. If I look at the same EUR 45 that you referred to, the vast majority of it, or all that is left over from the great kindness of the government, or EUR 38, is actually the result of indexation. Indexing is an old process, decided long before you decided to come into politics, probably before I decided to. This government is not much of a friend to entrepreneurs. Don't you think that talking about it discredits politics and the government in general? Perhaps it would be easier to admit that it was a small one for the wrong election result.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U141	Thank you for your question. As far as indexation is concerned, of course, this mechanism, as such, has been agreed for a long time, but the specific size of the index, however, also depends on the behaviour of the public sector. The private sector is certainly the main employer, but also the public sector, with its wage decisions, is the increase in the salaries of the teachers referred to before, the increase in wages in the field of internal security, the increase in the wages of cultural workers, the increase in the wages of social workers or other wage increases that contributed to the additional collection of social tax. Social tax receipts are known to be one of the main determinants of the pension index, which is 80% affected. The previous government decisions also have a very clear impact on the index rate for the following years. As far as pre-election promises are concerned, it is true that any hindsight is an exact science. With hindsight, I think, the electoral platforms for all parties would have been somewhat different, seeing the real situation and the financial opportunities, but the goal that the party, in this case the Centre Party, set, to raise the pension by 100 euros, will certainly remain in force. Perhaps 2020 could have been taken away from there, but in order to raise pensions faster than has been raised so far, to increase faster than indexation allows, to bring people out of the poverty line, that direction I certainly think is right, and that is what the coalition thinks is right. The majority of society will certainly share this view.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U142	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U143	Thank you. Good minister! You have tried to impose 'evenly' on all parliamentary parties, as if it were that electoral promises did not hold out in any way, and you have tried to justify your very noble election promise, which has proved to be a clear lie today. You also said that it later turned out that the budget was much worse. I'm sorry, you were the chief ideology of the previous government and the chief strategist of the Centre Party, maybe you're still in it, I don't know. But when I look at how we've come to this point, this billion structural minus has still come in the last three years during the reign of Jüri Ratas, which you led as your chief ideology. Perhaps, however, you will draw up the courage to say that we have apologized, we have screwed up, and we will not keep up the expectation that we will create a structural minus and continue to live for as long as you intend in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U144	Thank you for your question. This is now the part where our worldviews break up, where there's nothing wrong with it. In my opinion, for example, the extra health care money, the extra agricultural money, the additional support for local government and the additional support for poorer people with tax-free income reform are all the more important values than the structural balance of the state budget. That's the reality. In retrospect, it turned out that the state budget is somewhat structurally negative, but looking at the fact that in the history of the Republic of Estonia it has been in a number of times bigger disadvantages and we have survived as a state, and our debt burden is still very low, I do not really see it as a problem such as the product. Perhaps in my opinion, of course, the aim is for the budget to be structurally balanced or close to it. If he's a little bit out of control in a few years, and in a few years, it's not the end of the world. However, the problem is considerably greater if our people do not receive a decent salary if our farmers do not receive enough benefits if health care does not reduce the order of treatment. These are decisions that really affect people's daily livelihood. The government made these decisions, they took extra money both in these three years and in the following years, but this money is meant for the people of Estonia. I think these decisions were correct, and I will stick to that today, even when it has become clear that the structural position of the budget has been somewhat worse than we knew when we put together the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U145	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U146	Good manager! Good waitress! When moving towards climate-neutrality, it is important to give up eating meat. Many pensioners have already done so. If the same line is to be continued, this target group must be extended to include the working people. But that's it. Will you assure us that this 600 million, which must now be spent every year, as Prime Minister Ratas promised, moving towards climate neutrality, must all come from Brussels and the Estonian taxpayer must not worry that a few million must be squeezed from here too? If so, where, for example, will you find the 140 million so that you can raise the 50 euros pension next year? Where's the hole?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U147	Thank you very much for your question. Certainly not all measures to move towards climate neutrality are covered by one hundred percent of euro money. I certainly didn't say that. I said that the European Union's instruments are of great support here; this has also been an important objective at European Union level. The state must contribute further, I referred to a great many investments, it is rail electrification, it is an improvement in the energy performance of buildings or other such measures, as well as the efficiency of agricultural systems. These are all sensible measures and they should be taken even if we did not aim for climate neutrality. After all, many of these things have been done, guarantees and support measures have been offered over the years to housing associations and individuals with the support of KredEx and other state institutions, and they must continue to be offered. As regards the additional resources for extraordinary pension increases, these negotiations are ahead. We have decided to carry out a thorough revision of the state budget, to review revenue and expenditure, to review the possibilities for reducing any other funding, if necessary, in order to allow for more social spending. As Minister of Social Affairs, I certainly support the fact that the social and health care sector, which is clearly underfunded in Estonia compared to other Europe, would receive additional money. These decisions, as has been said, are certainly complicated, because there are always several applications for each euro, which is inevitable, but I think that the logic of the political logic of Estonia and perhaps the'state structure' is that the social sector is rather left to local governments and people themselves. It hasn't been right. I think that this is where the country must take on a greater role and support the people who need support most.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U148	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U149	Thank you for the floor. Minister, thank you very much. On previous issues, you highlighted the responsibility and the view that happens as a result of one or the other. In a situation where we can all see that Estonia is the red lantern of Europe in terms of relative poverty for pensioners, your draft law says that next year may not change anything. Although the increase in pensions resulting from indexation is, in fact, rather good, the government's contribution of EUR 7 and, in turn, the tax on income does not change the picture significantly. So, what's your four-year plan, where do you want to go as Minister of Social Affairs? What is your proposal to the government and what do you consider realistic? How much do you intend to reduce the relative poverty among old-age pensioners during this period? Would you describe it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U150	Thank you for your question. I think it's important that this trend is "positive" or "negative" in terms of number, i.e. that the number gets smaller and smaller. The fact that he could be less than 40%, I think, is perfectly viable for the country, that should be the goal. Unfortunately, it will never reach zero, it is not practically possible in purely methodological terms, but the 47.5% that was in 2017 is indeed shamefully too high. As far as the issue is concerned in general, the social sphere is very large. After all, we also support the elderly with a number of other measures. This is important and must be done this way: various social services, proposals for long-term care, for which government has come and we will come asking for additional money in the coming years. The amount of his or her pension is certainly important to a person, but it is also important that the health services and social services he or she needs are available for transport, the living environment in general is in order, the local government is strong. All these areas must be contributed and all these areas contribute to the improvement of people's well-being. All of this must be done not only by the Minister for Social Affairs for the next four years, but by all ministers and parliamentarians, as well as by the next governments and the next parliaments. In one, two or four years, we will certainly not be able to bring the elderly in Estonia to the same level in the context of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U151	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U152	Thank you. Good minister! I wasn't going to ask you at all, but you were so sure that the Centre Party was fulfilling all the promises, and I remembered one more promise. You talked very nicely here about how the relative poverty gap and the pension gap continue to decrease. Your promise I wanted to tell you about was that you would raise your pension so much that you could pay for the nursing home. But with this bill, too, the difference is actually 400-500 euros; this money is missing from paying for a nursing home. So, what's the plan? When are you going to keep that promise? Or is that just a promise?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U153	Thank you for your question. It's a very important subject. It is certainly the goal that a person should receive as much services as possible for his or her pension, but even more importantly, it is often the elderly who do not have this capacity that are supported. Today, it is primarily the responsibility of the local government, in some cases also the responsibility of the human family. Our aim in the view of the Ministry of Social Affairs is to reduce people's own burden of paying for social services, to reduce the burden on their loved ones, since it is then a home for care or other need to pay should not lead to poverty or difficulties in coping with any family; I am not only talking about the elderly. These measures therefore need to be seen more broadly. We have planned the initial proposals. There are three broad models of long-term care. If you want, I can introduce them. Today's system may continue, where it is essentially the responsibility of the local government and the state supports special care or other services, or we will expand it so that the state takes over certain services and starts financing them more than before. There may also be agreements on the co-financing of the local government and the state, which precisely ensures that people's own "retirement" does not need to be paid back to their loved ones, which is really a goal. The third option is the creation of some kind of cash-based solution, with separate insurance premiums, etc. This requires fundamental decisions at the level of the government and Parliament. These are possible changes. As far as care homes are concerned, it is clear that there is, on the one hand, a lack of nursing homes, special care, various assistance services in Estonia, as well as a lack of providing home services, but there are also very many people who could actually cope in their own home if they were given enough home services. It is important to look at a person's own desire to go to a nursing home, to have a possible service there, or to actually live at home, for example if he or she has the support offered by a social worker or other local government, or if he or she has the support provided by the state, which gives him or her the opportunity to solve heating problems, solve treatment issues, and support him or her in shopping, cleaning and other such matters, without giving people the opportunity to enjoy old age in their homes with dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U154	Indrek Saar, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U155	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In one of your earlier responses to Mr Ossinovski, you said that if we look at the pension system as a whole, when the second pillar becomes voluntary, people will need to be very thorough in explaining this as their mission, what happens if they withdraw the second pillar investment and this investment fails. What do you think, as Minister of Social Affairs, if you have done your job and explained it to everyone, what will happen then? Some people take out this money and their investment is going down, and in 20 or 30 years, their pension is a third less than they would otherwise have been, which is a third less than the replacement rate. Maybe they can't do their lives objectively anymore. Should the state say it's your own concern, you knew what you were doing? Or what kind of solution do you see as Minister of Social Affairs in such a situation, and what will it cost?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U156	Thank you for your question. As regards the amount of each person's future pension, as I referred to, it really depends on his own behaviour, it depends on how much he has accumulated before in the second pillar, how much he will withdraw before the retirement age, whether he will rejoin this pillar. There are, in fact, so many different models here that you mentioned one of them, I think it is somewhat arbitrary to point out one of them. As regards the increase in the share of the first pillar in the pension system, this is likely to be true. The important thing, then, is that more additional resources are put into the first pillar, which we are doing at government level with today's draft, and we have decided to do so in the future. For example, if some people give up the second pension pillar, the part of their social tax will certainly also be used to raise pensions, a particularly exceptional increase, which will automatically reduce the possible difference between the pension of the person who joined the second pillar and the pension of the person who joined it and left it. People should be supported by various measures, both by increasing the first pillar and by better sharing information and by a flexible possibility to rejoin the pension pillar system. If, for example, a person does not want to collect life at any time, but later begins to think more about retirement and wants to rejoin, then he must have the opportunity. Such solutions, including tax policy, must certainly be discussed at government level and agreed at Riigikogu level.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U157	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U158	Thank you. Mr. Minister! My question is motivated by your response to Vilja Toomast, and it concerns, above all, the provision of services in the social field, it is a welfare service or whatever. You have pointed out that, if necessary or if the private sector is unable to provide a service, the state will take over the service. My question is primarily due to the fact that we can say that somebody is taking over something, but who basically offers this service, because it is not possible to find someone who does simpler work in Estonia anymore. Who's gonna do these jobs? It's the same example you gave me to bring the trees into the room or to heat the oven. Who's doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U159	Thank you for your question. Of course, it is important to raise wages in this sector, which the government will do next year. Hopefully, local authorities will do the same. Social work is indeed an area where people often work very gratefully for a much lower salary than the Estonian average. Wage increases are certainly one of the motivations that will bring more and more people to work in this sector, because the need for social workers is great. Who specifically does this work? This has, in general, been a matter of local government. The question is that if we agree at government level, for example, that some tasks are going to the state or are going to co-responsibility, then this cooperation must certainly look different, but the main role, which is also the strategic direction of the government, that the local government primarily organises local affairs itself, will certainly remain. The question is, rather, whether cooperation between sectors could be enhanced and improved. As we know, there have been different solutions in the Ministry of Social Affairs all along the way, there was a minister for a long time, there were two ministers for the last five years, there is now another minister, which may provide a better opportunity for the social and health sector to work together, it is then the provision of nursing care, the provision of services in nursing homes, as well as the provision of services to people who, for example, are in a difficult situation from a health point of view, rehabilitation, rehabilitation and social integration. It is important for a person in need to receive the necessary services. Whoever specifically offers them is the Social Insurance Fund's social line or it is the Health Insurance Fund, is not so important, but in the country's view, this cooperation can certainly be enhanced, thus releasing human resources, because there is quite a lot of duplication here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U160	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Before we start listening to the co-report, I'll say I have a piece of paper here. The Estonian Centre Party Group proposes to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. So I will put it to the vote and then we will proceed with the co-report. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? I shall put to the vote... Can you hear me or talk to each other? [[A voice from the hall.]] That's good! I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand! There were 61 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, against 1, not participating 24. The proposal received enthusiastic support. The hearing is adjourned until two o'clock. Please, Mr Tõnis Mölder, co-rapporteur, the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft amendment to § 61 of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 7 October. Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik gave an overview of the draft and Lidia Soontak, adviser to the Labour and Pension Policy Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was invited. All the main members of the Commission took part in the meeting. As the previous speaker presented, the main content of the draft is, in short, to increase the basic pension by EUR 7 from 1 April next year, with indexation, it would mean an average pension increase of EUR 45 from 1 April next year. Members of the Commission also had some questions about the draft, and we received answers to them. In short, I'll go over them. First of all, the question was about pensioners living in relative poverty. In particular, it was a question of pensioners who live alone in order to see how they are affected by the increase in the basic part of pensions. The Minister's answer was that there is no full analysis of how and how much the new tax reform implemented a year and a half ago has affected single-living pensioners. This analysis does not exist at the moment, it is only clear at the end of 2019, but we dare to predict today that the EUR 500 tax-free income has mainly increased net pensions. Of course, the Government of the Republic will continue to grant one-off support to pensioners living alone, but raising the base by 7 euros will also contribute even slightly to reducing relative poverty. But these are certainly not measures that would have a significant impact on it. The question then was how many pensioners will earn more than EUR 500 per month and will pay taxes at the moment, and how many would be in the future if this bill were to be implemented in this form. The Minister noted that, before the tax reform, almost half of the pensioners paid taxes on their pension. Here, of course, it must be taken into account that a great deal depends on whether pensioners are working or not. However, if this bill is supported in this form, it is estimated that in the future approximately 60% of pensioners would have to pay taxes on their pension. The long-term question was also asked whether the government had any ideas and wishes to increase pensions exceptionally in the future and what could be its main sources of coverage. Yes, the Government of the Republic continues to want to increase the basic part of pensions in the future. In particular, savings in administrative costs, savings in public expenditure and economic growth have been proposed as a source of coverage. There was also a question of fact: when was the last time a so-called extraordinary pension increase took place? We got the answer 12 years ago. The Commission decided by consensus that: first, it was decided to appoint a rapporteur for the Commission here in the large Chamber, Mr Mölder; it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today, 15 October; it was decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at ten days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U162	Thank you, Mr. Co-Rapporteur. No questions for you. Now is the opportunity to open negotiations. At first reading, the representatives of the political groups will have the floor for the negotiations. Jürgen Ligi first.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We should not really talk here for hours about the lousy cents that the government gives to pensioners, but about the fraud that goes along with it. First of all, the Prime Party promised an extraordinary amount of EUR 100. This, of course, will not come, and such a thing should never have been allowed, nor should Tõnis Mölder have been here chatting about how economic growth is giving rise to extraordinary pension increases. This means that the system is not even elementary. The special form of fraud is the eloquent. I don't think that what Tanel Kiik said here reached a fraction of the hall, let alone the voters, but he tried to draw random parallels, to answer any question of whatever and actually avoid direct answers. So I'm going to define a little bit of what we're talking about here. First of all, there will be no emergency pension rise of EUR 100. Next, there will not be a total increase of EUR 100, which is allowed in one modification. But this EUR 100 has been promised by Jüri Ratas personally. The total amount of EUR 45 comes with indexation, but 38% of this is not in any way a favour of the Centre Party, but a favour of the pension system that has been set up in the past. There is no point in comparing this amount to previous increases, for many reasons, but it is particularly silly to compare absolute numbers, because for larger numbers, the increase is greater than the absolute number. It's fake and it's wrong. What else did the Centre Party promise? EUR 250 additional tax-free income for pensioners. It's not coming. What's coming is 7% of the vote, but with the other hand, 5.6% will be taken away. Let's talk about the average pension. The Centre Party fills 1.4% of its electoral promise and sneaks on the ground and the weather, tells him how to call and thank him. The reality is that the pension increase is difficult, it is a very responsible thing, and no one must allow any extraordinary leap, no one can keep that promise. We should talk about this. The big scam is that it can act like this and that it should go to elections like this. This promise is particularly bad and this kind of talkative situation, where the budget is already in a deep structural deficit, where a billion structural tours have already been set in three years. And then the Minister of Social Affairs also says that in fact, we can continue with this kind of thing, that we will move on from now on. No, the pension system is something that is under very strong demographic pressure. What is all the worse is that the same Minister for Social Affairs and the same Prime Minister agree to the destruction of this pension system. If, on the one hand, the pension is increased by 0.26% to 0.26%, sorry, I reduced the percentage, then the other hand reduces the pension by 30% for those who go along with this slippery story and withdraw money from the second pillar. After all, the entire pension increase is actually only possible if we are in the process of collecting money... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U164	There's an extra time, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U165	... if we compensate for the relative decline in demographic reasons in the first pillar by earmarking the money. Now one party has gone crazy with 100 euros, the other party has gone crazy with the promise to pay them their pension immediately. But the result is that this 0.2% is due to the fact that last night's Eesti Pank analysis confirmed that the pension for the non-second pillar is 30% lower. This is the main summary. In addition, economic growth will be damaged. So we really cannot say exactly what the result of a government pension policy is because of such a large number of variables. But in any case, it is extremely negative for pensions, it is reducing pensions and it is irresponsible. That is why the first thing we should do is protect the second pillar. We should instill in people that the first pillar does not guarantee them a decent pension. But here, too, we're dealing with fraud again. The Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Government as a whole inspire us as if the first pillar could be raised exceptionally high. The next item on the agenda, which has arrived in the Chamber, states that it is actually nice to be free and to get the pension out of the second pillar immediately. After all, the result is poverty in the future. Future pensioners are destined for relative poverty as a result of the government's pension policy. That is a fact and this should have been discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U166	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U167	Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone has the right to a dignified old age. No one has to live their lives under this star, that every last cycle of water must be saved and saved, for if one day simply cannot survive every day or the body fails, there will be a disease, then there will be no other way to get help than your own collection. No one should be afraid back to strike for better pay, to make drastic changes in their lives even if they are 50, to take random risks to go where their heart wants to go, should not be intimidated simply because this retirement age is a scary thing. A person has the right to seek happiness in the way he chooses, and at one point a person also has the right to rest and carelessness. And this right, like all other rights in our lives, can only be guaranteed by the state, not by international financial markets. That is why state pensions have always been one of the most important issues for the Centre Party. All extraordinary pension increases in Estonia were born when the Centre Party was in government. That's right now. This year, the government allocated EUR 20.8 million for extraordinary pension increases, which means that in 2020 our elderly will receive more than EUR 540 per year. Moreover, we are raising the base of the pension, which means that the state will first come to the aid of those who are in the weakest position. That is the principle of justice: no one is left behind. First, the hand is handed to those who are the hardest, the most vulnerable. The politicians of the Reform Party will, unfortunately, only remember pensioners in the election campaign, if numbers are to be juggled. But when we look at real life, the governments of the Reform Party raised the retirement pension of 90 euros, or on average 15 euros, in 2011/2016. The governments of the Centre Party raised an old-age pension of 132 euros between 2017 and 2020 or an average of 33 euros, twice as much. Let's not talk about Finland at all, they have had at least three of their ministers in the Ministry of Social Affairs in the last ten years, and the base section has been raised exactly EUR 0 at that time. Indeed, there will be both indexation and an extraordinary increase in the next EUR 45 pension increase. But there is no need to pretend that the index is somehow independent of the government, somehow rising itself. The rise in pension and index results from the effective economic policy of the previous government, the effective economic policy of the government governed by the Centre Party. We did a large-scale raise in the public sector. People's incomes in the education system, internal security, the social system, the cultural sector increased brandily, and this, together with cutting red tape, also created the prerequisites for wage increases in the private sector. The previous government was the first to encourage the social partners to agree on an increase in the minimum wage. Without all these steps, we would not be talking today about an additional EUR 38 through indexation. This, too, is the government's economic policy. The economy itself is not working. The truth is that this pension increase is only half of our election promise to raise the pension with indexation of EUR 100. The other half must also be done and, in fact, more should be done. This is the first step towards a strong, peaceful and dignified state pension. However, we can promise that, in the coming years, we will not stay in place, but will use all the means to ensure a decent pension, and, of course, we will also take up the issue of the average pension tax exemption. It's all part of the plan. A hundred years ago, Estonia's first constitution stated that the organisation of economic life in Estonia must comply with the principles of justice, the aim of which is to ensure the maintenance of human dignity by the laws in this regard. The idea is still the North Star of the Central Party. Therefore, we are not afraid to renounce reformative taxogms; we are not afraid to ask the richest for income tax; we are not going to tie our hands to the budgetary balance in vain. We don't bargain with older people's quality of life. It is our policy's aim to ensure this, and we will not step off this path. We are really creating a just country where human dignity is guaranteed to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U168	Thank you. Indrek Saar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U169	Ladies and gentlemen, It's not nice to cheat on people. It is particularly ugly to let down the weaker, elderly ones. Well-grown people don't do that. Nor is it nice to decorate yourself with foreign feathers, which today's coalition does, unfortunately, by trying to claim that the pension increase resulting from the indexation of pensions is like their favour. No, it's not. This is a favour to the good Estonian working people, both workers and entrepreneurs. They also have my thanks, because their contribution to the pension increase, if so calculated, will be five and a half times that of today's government, even expressed in figures, next year. We all remember today it has been repeatedly recalled, as Jüri Ratas visited community houses, day centres and where he asked to vote for himself, promising our elderly people a 100-euro pension increase this year, or at least next year. Yes, indeed, only an extraordinary increase in pension will guarantee an average old-age pension of EUR 700 by 2023, as the Minister of Social Affairs rightly said. EKRE promised even more: we promise that the average pension will double over the next four years, i.e. around EUR 800. The Ministry of Finance has calculated that without an extraordinary pension increase, the average pension may be only EUR 585 after four years. In order to have an average pension of EUR 700 per month in four years' time, this year, in addition to indexation, pensions should be increased by not EUR 7, but EUR 70, Minister. According to Eurostat, 46.3% of the elderly in Estonia were at risk of poverty last year, or in 2018. Only Latvia is near this frighteningly high percentage. If the Minister sets it an ambition that we will reach 40% in four years, then in four years' time too, if Latvia tries to take care of its pensioners, we may be a red lantern in the European Union and at least two of the European average, but perhaps three times the number of pensioners living in poverty. This means that two out of every five pensioners live in poverty. This is not a goal that the coalition of government that puts cohesion first, and all of this has been sanctioned by the coalition of government, could be set for itself. Today's average pension, 483 euros, is clearly below the limit of relative poverty. In order to keep the average pension above the limit of relative poverty, we should increase pensions by EUR 80 in addition to the annual statutory indexation. The draft before us adds EUR 7 to pensions, and from this little time too, many pensioners will have to start paying income tax from the new year. What problem can be solved with this extra money? Does it bring the elderly out of relative poverty? No, I won't. Does this allow elderly people in nursing homes to pay their own costs? Far from it. Will the Centre Party and the EKRE be able to use it to hide their falsehood? Life will show. In any case, the Social Democrats believe that our elderly deserve an increase in pensions, which will help them out of the trap of relative poverty, and that all people deserve not to be lied to. The draft of exasperating grandmothers and grandfathers with 7 euros to appease their conscience is cynical and word-writing. You could have at least tried to show some respect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U170	Thank you. There are no more requests to participate in the negotiations, the draft 79 first reading is closed. As there are no other proposals, the procedure will be followed. The deadline for tabling amendments is 29 October at 5.15 p.m. Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U171	We will go to the next item on the agenda: Bill 31 of the Supplementary Act to the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. Let's start reading it first. I would like to present a member of the Riigikogu, Heljo Pikhof! [[Heljo Pikhof's not in the hall, little break.]] The waitress's here. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U172	Thank you. Sorry I'm a little late! I was hoping the calls would be longer, but they weren't. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! According to Eurostat, Estonia has been the first prize in the European Union for many years in terms of the proportion of older people living at risk of poverty. We read from studies that the relative poverty of older people is caused both by low incomes and by unequal distribution of incomes in society. The risk of poverty is greatest among older women and the elderly living alone. In 2017, 82.1% of women aged 65 and over lived below the limit of relative poverty. It was also very high for men: 80.7%. The European Commission has repeatedly raised the issue of pension adequacy in its annual Estonian state report. In recent years, relative poverty among the elderly has increased and has been the highest in Europe. In addition, Estonia's population is characterised by rapid ageing. Tunamull had 47.5% of people aged 65 and over living in relative poverty. Estonia's spending on the pension system is below the average level in the OECD countries. In Europe, retirement pensions averaged 9.7% of GDP in 2016 and in Estonia half less than 4.9%. A study carried out in OECD countries analysing people's assessments of social policy and the potential social and economic risks they may face in the future identified 82% of our people as one of the greatest risks of economic coping in old age. Among the 55-70-year-olds, this percentage was 94. However, prices increased by 3.4% a year for the second year in a row. Last year, price increases were the fastest in the euro area. This was most affected by the increase in domestic costs, the increase in electricity, heat and gas prices. It is not, therefore, that an elderly person does not have money for a warm - up trip or even for unexpected departures; it is the most distressing. And now the people receiving the national pension. People receiving national pensions have fallen into misery, and their expulsion has been left primarily on their loved ones' shoulders. In 2018, 369 beneficiaries of national pension received income support. This accounted for 7.9% of all beneficiaries. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Our people must also have a decent life in their old age. After all, the main objective of pension policy is to ensure adequate income after the end of working life, which means that pensioners are not at risk of poverty and are able to participate actively in society. In the Riigikogu elections in 2019, almost all elected parties asked voters for a mandate for extraordinary pension increases. The Reform Party wanted to increase old-age pensions by 200 euros over four years with growth, which according to the Ministry of Finance means an extraordinary increase of approximately 100 euros. The Centre Party promised to raise the average old-age pension in 2020 exceptionally, with an indexation of EUR 100. Only an extraordinary increase in pensions will ensure an average old-age pension of EUR 700 by 2023, as the Centre Party has said. The Social Democrats asked for support for pension increases in line with wage and price increases and plans to raise the average pension to 700 euros per month. EKRE promised to double the average pension over the next four years, i.e. approximately EUR 800. The initiators of the draft act see, within the framework of the mandate requested by voters, the largest share in the increase in the pension of EUR 100. This would increase the old-age pension to an extent that the average old-age pension would exceed the relative poverty rate. The aim is to raise the national pension by EUR 60 to help older people out of absolute poverty. The results of the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs show that an exceptional increase of EUR 80 is required in order to allow pensioners to cross the poverty line on average in 2020. Now, as a percentage. The seven-euro pension increase reduces the relative poverty rate of the population aged 65 and over by 0.6 percentage points, while the proposed solution of the Social Democrats to raise the base, which is the same for all pensioners, would reduce it by EUR 100 by 16 percentage points. And now the cost of the state budget. The Ministry of Finance estimated the cost of an extraordinary pension increase of EUR 70 million in 2020 at EUR 140 million. Thus, the cost of an increase of EUR 100 million is EUR 200 million. The increase in national pensions will increase the state's costs by 2.5 million euros in 2020. True, thank you for your work has in many cases been thrown into tomorrow's wake. The Prime Minister promised to review these questions in the autumn before submitting the draft budget for 2020. In turn, exceptional pension increases are one of the issues to which they were allowed to return in the light of the new economic forecast. It is right to ask why before March, before the elections of the Riigikogu, economic forecasts and even warnings were not considered to be anything. After all, the size of the pension affects a very large number of people, more than 300,000 people living alone have more retirement benefits, and this also affects their relatives. However, also from the point of view of the functioning of the state, the issue of pension increases is precisely what the government must definitely redeem from a large number of naked bills. The population is ageing, the problems of the elderly pile up quickly. If there is no effective action in older people's policies, but if analyses and work plans are pushed to the surface, the freed-up avalanche can also bury the mechanisms of the functioning of the state. As cynical as it is, the linking of extraordinary pension increases to what is decided on the second pension pillar will have an impact. In fact, of course, the money has not run out of the Treasury and the economy is growing. It is still growing: GDP increased 4.5% in the first quarter compared to the previous year, which exceeded all expectations of analysts. The country's expenditure for next year is roughly half a billion euros higher than this year. The pension system must take into account that dignified and active ageing is not just an issue addressed in the strategy papers, but is people's expectation and hope. In order to boost the right decisions, members of the Social Democratic Party of the Riigikogu have planned an addition to the National Pension Insurance Act, according to which the basic part of the pension will increase by 100 euros after 1 April 2020 and the national pension by 60 euros. The voters were asked for a mandate for an extraordinary increase in pensions, almost all the extraordinary times that had arrived in Parliament. Moreover, this is a basic promise of the Prime Minister's Party. Let us not betray the expectations of our elderly!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U173	Thank you. Any questions? Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U174	Thank you, manager. Thank you, good waitress. I'm in favour of two hands, but you've made very nice promises for a lifetime, haven't you? Let us recall even 'Suntown', 'Utopia' or scientific communism. But we're coming to the shields. Where is this money actually taken to raise pensions by EUR 100? What are we canceling? Where do we get that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U175	Thank you for your question. I think you're confusing a few things. I think all these communism issues are largely from your time. The Socialists have nothing to do with them. But what I'm trying to say is that we all have one in common. I think that, in the course of the state budget procedure, it is the duty of all of us who have promised an increase in pensions, and especially of those who have promised it from 1 April next year, to review the state budget and to find these resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U176	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U177	Good manager! Good waitress! It's too bad there's so few questioners. But I'm asking the same question I asked Tanel Kiige twice a moment ago. Everything's beautiful. The situation of the pensioners, where the Estonian state has put them, is not the best and, of course, any cent that would add up would be good. Socialists are also eager to move towards climate neutrality, but that means finding 600 million every year. Tanel Kiik said that most come from Brussels, but they don't. Estonia also comes from Estonia. Now you want 140 million, but I'm gonna ask you where you're taking it, especially if you have to start collecting money for climate neutrality to avoid the end of the world. Where do you get that from? Where do you even get 20 million, not to mention 140?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U178	Thank you. Thank God I don't have to take it personally. But what I'm saying is that we can't go against one important subject to another. I remember very well when the Social Democrats stood here on the floor of the Riigikogu for the well-being of children. So there were always questions, but older people or teachers or whatever. But you can't cross different social groups. We're dealing with a very burning subject right now. 47.5% of older people live in relative poverty, and they all expect pensions to rise. Your party has also promised to raise your old-age pension to 800 euros. I'd like to ask you how you do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U179	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U180	I'd love to, but now that I'm a questioner and I'm using my sovereign right, I repeat, tell me, Heljo, where would you and the Social Democrats, if you were in power now, take that 140 million? I stress that the idea is correct, but where would you take it? You say you don't want to cross different groups, but the pot's in common, the wallet's in common. For what, for whom? I understand that the support of the LGBT Society, which Tanel Kiik shares, comes from Brussels, but it's kökiki next to it. Where do you scrape the 140 million into the budget of the Estonian state? On whose account?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U181	Thank you, good questioner! But we're not in the government right now. If we were in the government right now, we would have solved two problems. We have not promised that from 1 April next year, as the Prime Minister's Party has promised, the base will rise immediately and today and in this amount. But we would have solved two issues in these four years: raising the basic pension by EUR 100 and the care of the elderly. So that it is not that, when an elderly person is in a care home, children and grandchildren have to pay for the difference, but that obligation goes to dividing between the state and the local government, I mean, paying the difference between the pension and the cost of a nursing home.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U182	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Very nice bill, I totally agree. My fellow Member, Mr Ernits, has tried to fish out from you where these amendments come from, but as a smart tactic, you have failed to say this. I am going to ask you a little bit more simply: do you still propose amendments to the budget at second reading on this draft, of course?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U184	Thank you for your question. When the bill comes to second reading, it will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U185	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Now I ask Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to co-rapporteur the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U186	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft Act supplementing § 61 of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party at the meeting on 8 October. The representative of the Social Democratic Party, a member of the Riigikogu Heljo Pikhof, gave an overview of the draft. Kristiina Selgis, Head of Pension Policy of the Labour and Pension Policy Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was also present. Seven main members and one alternate member took part in the work of the Commission and one member was absent. In short, the content of the draft is to increase the basic amount of the pension by 100 euros and the national pension by 60 euros from 1 April 2020 after indexation. To the state budget, this would mean an additional cost of approximately EUR 200 million and an increase in national pension from around EUR 2.5 million. There was also a question in the Commission. This concerned in particular the extent to which this extraordinary increase in pensions would reduce the relative poverty rate of older people in 2020. The answer was that raising the pension base by EUR 100 would reduce the relative poverty rate by 16 percentage points. This is a draft, on which the Government of the Republic has also expressed its position. I read the position of the Government of the Republic: 'The explanatory memorandum to the draft submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party does not include an analysis of the adequacy of the magnifications offered and the availability of resources. Therefore, at its meeting on 27 June 2019, the Government of the Republic did not support the draft SDE in its proposed form, but decided to follow the analysis of the Ministry of Social Affairs... ' The government decided to submit its draft to the Riigikogu for processing. Therefore, the Government of the Republic did not support this draft. Now we go to what the Commission decided. The Commission decided by consensus: first, to appoint Tõnis Mölder as rapporteur for the draft in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu and to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today, 15 October, to complete the first reading of the draft and to set 10 working days by which amendments should be tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U187	Thank you. There is at least one question for the co-rapporteur. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U188	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I would remind you that there were a number of questions in the Commission. 'Heljo Pikhof noted that the position of the Government of the Republic states that the explanatory memorandum to the draft submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party does not include an analysis of the adequacy of the proposed magnification and the availability of resources and therefore the Government of the Republic did not support the draft (31 SE) as proposed. He asked me what were the results of the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Social Affairs? How much should pensions be increased to reduce the number of older people living in relative poverty? ' An official who had come from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Commission replied that the results of the analysis showed that, in order to allow pensioners to cross the limit of relative poverty on average in 2020, the pension should be increased by an additional €80 after an increase of €7. How do you comment on that? You said there was only one question, but you did not mention this important question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U189	Thank you. I have brought before you what was under discussion in the Commission and what the Members of the Commission specifically asked for. I did not really mark the questions raised by the rapporteur on the draft in the Commission. Yeah, you're really right, you asked that question yourself. But here it may just be the thought that, if you submitted this draft yourself, you could have done your homework and already had to know these questions and answers in advance when you came to our committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U190	Heljo Pikhof, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U191	Thank you. I knew it, but I checked. Now, Liina Kersna is definitely a member of the Commission. Liina Kersna asked how much the relative poverty of pensioners would be reduced by an increase of EUR 7 and how much the exceptional pension increase of EUR 60 would reduce. How big are these effects? Kristiina Selgis replied that according to the draft explanatory memorandum, an increase of EUR 7 will reduce the relative poverty rate of the population aged 65 and over by 0.6 percentage points in 2020, with the increase of the EUR 100 base to 16 percentage points, which is the last thing you have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U192	Thank you. Really, the data is correct. That is what came out of the Commission's debate. This is also what the ministry representative said that, indeed, with such a draft, it could be assumed that an increase of EUR 100 in the basic part of pensions on 1 April next year could reduce the relative poverty rate by 16 percentage points. In the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic, this percentage point was significantly lower than
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U193	Thanks to the co-rapporteur. No further questions. Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations. It is possible for the representatives of the political groups to speak in the negotiations. Helmen Kütt as representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party receives the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U194	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about how our fathers and mothers and grandmothers and grandfathers can cope, whether their pension enables them to survive independently, even if they are left alone. No one wants to be a burden or depend on others. People want to take care of themselves as long as possible. Having worked for a lifetime, they have a reasonable expectation and hope that the state will not leave them in trouble. The analysis by the Ministry of Social Affairs of June 2019 entitled "The economic coping and poverty of the elderly' draws attention to the fact that the European Commission has repeatedly raised the issue of pension adequacy in its annual Estonian state report. In the last report, Estonia's 2019 report reiterates the fact that poverty among older people aged 65 and over is still very high in Estonia. In recent years, the relative poverty of older people has increased and has been the largest in the European Union, i.e. compared to other EU Member States, the relative poverty rate of older people in Estonia is 41.2%, which is the highest among 28 countries in the European Union. In comparison, the European Union average is 15%. We still love to compare ourselves to our neighbors. So let's do it now: in Latvia this figure is 40%, in Lithuania 34%, let alone Finland, where the relative poverty rate for older people is 12%, or below the European Union average. At the same time, Finland decided to opt for an increase in pensions as one of its priorities in the 2020 state budget in order to bring the elderly, who have a low pension, out of poverty. The government that took office in Estonia in spring compared the excise duty on alcohol in Latvia and Lithuania and acted as if it were the most important and burning problem in Estonia. Unfortunately, the relative poverty rate in the above countries was not considered, it was not considered that Estonia's state spending on old-age pensions is among the lowest in Europe, and Estonia's social protection system is characterised by a low share of social protection expenditure in GDP compared to other countries. They didn't look, they didn't act. Since pensions are the main source of income for older people and the main objective of pension policy is to ensure adequate income after the end of working life, pension is a key factor in alleviating poverty. All citizens must have a decent life, opportunities to participate in social life and also to consume culture. In 2017, a person with a monthly equivalent net income of less than EUR 523 lived in relative poverty. In 2017, the relative poverty rate was 22.6%, or it is estimated that nearly 295,000 people lived in relative poverty. Older people live in Estonia in the greatest relative poverty. In 2017, the relative poverty rate for people aged 65 and over rose to 47.5%. As age grows, economic coping deteriorates. Looking at the age group 75 years and older, it can be seen that in this age group, the highest number of people live in relative poverty, i.e. the percentage is 54.4%. The biggest poverty, however, is 75 years of age and older, and it was women, of which 61.2% lived in relative poverty in 2017. According to the same study, if the old age pension increased by EUR 70 per month in 2020, it is expected to reduce relative poverty by 8.3 percentage points for people aged 65 and over. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U195	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U196	If old-age pensions rise by EUR 100 per month, this would reduce the relative poverty rate of the population aged 65 and over by 13.9 percentage points and the relative poverty rate of all older people by 16.1 percentage points. All these analyses and data were and are available at the Ministry of Social Affairs. We owe our elderly. Let us repay this debt, not push it into the future! The draft tabled by the Socialists would ease the livelihood of the elderly and would fulfil the promise made by all political parties present in this Chamber today before the elections, in a way or on the other. I call on you to support the proposed draft not only in words, not only in making promises, but also in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-15_U197	Thank you. No further wish to participate in the negotiations has been revealed, so the first reading of draft 31 has been completed. The deadline for tabling amendments is 29 October at 5.15 p.m. Although we extended the session until 2 p.m., I am saddened to say that the session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 1.28 p.m.
