ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 28 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Interior Katri Raik and Minister of the Environment Siim Kiisler will be in briefings. I will give the debate on each issue an opportunity to put forward a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U2	The first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, first questioner Mart Helme. Please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U3	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I come to this subject, which caused sharp attacks on our party at the end of November. They were also attended by two members of your office, namely two socialist ministers, Indrek Saar and Mrs Raik, who accused our party of racism and incitement to violence. As it turns out now, this incident on the Beach of Stromis, referred to, is a complete fiction. Regrettably, members of the Reform Party, namely Eerik-Niles Kross, are likely to be involved. How do you view such hysteria from a social media post? Are you condemning this and, on behalf of the government, are you apologizing to our party?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I begin by saying that no violence of any kind, whether verbal or physical, is justified. In this case too, I would certainly like to express my thanks to the Police and Border Guard Board, who have done their job well and found out the whole truth. In answer to your question, first of all, regrettably, in this case, the victim of a false news report is a clear one. Surely this is a lesson for all of us. We must be critical of the sources and refrain from premature statements. You referred to the connection with the Reform Party in this case. I do not know that the Reform Party has any connection to this case, at least I have not been told that. You asked about the apology. Of course, you must ask these questions from specific people. If you look at me and you ask me, I'm sure in this case I'd apologize.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U5	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister, I am very grateful to you for your apology. This shows that you really are able to be impartial and adequately judged. As for the involvement of the Reform Party, the news this morning states that it was the partner of Eerik-Niles Kross who filed this complaint with the police and made the whole snowball roll. If we put together 2+2 or remember that Indrek Tarand was the one who caused an incident with his provocation here in front of the Riigikogu, and that Kross and Tarand were brothers through the ECS and worked together for a long time in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then we can still see a very clear sequence of provocations and information operations to blackmail one of the political forces. How do you think we will come out of this situation in Estonia, and who in Estonia is this divider and anger promoter?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U7	In this way, I believe that the incitement of hatred and the dissemination of false news, I could also say that there is certainly no place in a society in which constructive, coherent, solidarity-based social discussions are sought. This, in my opinion, must be borne in mind particularly strongly by politicians who have a greater responsibility to society. In your second question, you asked again about the link between this case and the Reform Party. Like I said, I don't know that this case has anything to do with the Reform Party. I understand your logic, you put these things together from a family perspective. I do not really know how to deal with these issues, nor can I say that there are links here. I have clearly condemned the attack on Indrek Tarand of an Estonian citizen here in the Riigikogu before you, and I will continue to do so. I also said today, in answering your first question, that no violence, no physical violence and certainly no verbal violence are justified in any way. I have had this debate with members of your group already in several briefings, and I have said that if we all try to work towards a balanced and more coherent society in which we reject intimidation, false news, half-truths, where we still talk about what is based on facts, then, I think, it takes Estonia forward and is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U8	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U9	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! I am also pleased that you have made an adequate assessment of this situation, and I agree that any violence is worth condemning, especially what has not happened on the Beach of Stromis. But I have a question that is already more directly relevant to your subordinates. We have this kind of strategic communication company with the government in Estonia, and for a lot of money, there are agents of false news and the post-truth world on the payroll. We also claim to have a volunteer, but he's still state budgeted, isn't he, Proastop? So how does it happen that such obvious false news runs under their radar? Do the members of the government not receive any input or insight into this particular right to work, that they are already rushing to take their views before anything is revealed? How does this work with your Propastop and your strategic communication system? Is this good for ministers at all or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U10	Thank you. I think that what today's government has decided and done is to set up a strategic communication office in the State Chancellery under the authority of the Government's communication office is a very right and very sensible step. Indeed, such analysis and monitoring are constant. That's what they do. I didn't exactly understand whether you had, like, the recognition that we were so serious about this strategic communication issue, but I would like to congratulate these people. If you ask what they are doing, I will say that in recent times, for example, one topic where they have been a very strong partner, a cooperation partner, also an input provider, has been linked to various false news, false accounts, false claims that have been made on social media. As we know, many such accounts have been closed as a result of international cooperation. So this is one of their parts of the job. If you ask if they don't give you input, I'll come back to what I said in response to Mart Helme, that I recognise the work of the Police and Border Guard Board and thank them for still finding out the truth. That's all that matters. I think it also shows that we cannot say that there is, I don't know, a deep state (I have heard that sometimes you use such a term) or something like that. It's not there. The police do their day-to-day work, find out the truth. In this case, he has found out, and this is certainly a recognition for the people of the Police and Border Guard Board who dealt with this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U12	Asks Enn Meri, answers Environment Minister Siim Kiisler. Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I want to ask you a question about forestry. If I drive around Saaremaa, this picture is about the same all over Estonia, it often seems that someone who has some kind of forest banner and doesn't do it himself will sell this cutting right, then a forest company will come along, take a harvester, do a clear-cut, and everything will be all clear, in the right case, some kind of tree will be left. But when you look at and compare it with Scandinavian lands, the mound is often a replanting obligation, which means that the forest grows up beautifully, that's where you get the forest you want, not any bush. Wouldn't this kind of law be something the Ministry of the Environment could propose?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U14	Thank you. Our current Forest Act states in subsection 24 (3) that the owner of the forest is obliged to implement forest renewal techniques to the extent that, no later than five years after the felling or the loss of the forest, the new forest is required. By way of derogation, some types of site have been set up for 10 years. So we actually have the same requirement. The forest can be renewed by itself, without human intervention. The Environmental Board coordinates the assessment of forest renewal. For example, last year, I have numbers here, too, where the reforestation of the woods in the fellers five years ago, let's say that. It was estimated at 10,000 hectares. The problem is private forests, RMK is not a problem. 22000 to 25000 hectares are subject to annual renewal cutting in private forests and to 10000 hectares, mostly in private forests. The results of the inspection showed that 263 hectares were those where the forest had not been renewed, but should have been, i.e. 6.5% of the surface area of the screened strips. So, in fact, within five years, the forest generally regenerates. It's also a visual problem, but at first, these little forest plants don't look like they do. In the first few years, it seems that nothing has been done, in fact, when you go on the ground, you can often see these smaller plants growing inside the grass.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U15	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U16	Thank you, Mr President. I also have an additional question. When this kind of clear cutting is done, as I mentioned earlier, with harvesters, I often see very ugly marks being left. Does the ministry have no intention of doing anything to stop these things in any way, or of doing something to restore the soil?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U17	Thank you. First of all, I will take this opportunity and add more to the previous answer. We have one problem with the renewal of private forests, which is that forest plants in Estonia do not continue. Private owners have approached us with this concern, and we are developing a measure to support the creation of opportunities for growing forest plants financially. We support the acquisition of plants, but it is also necessary to support the creation of opportunities to ensure that these plants continue sufficiently, because at certain moments they simply do not exist. If, by ugly tracks, you refer in particular to rails produced by vehicles, it is also intended to do so by its own standards as to how deep these tracks may be. These losses must be eliminated at a later stage. This is one of the concerns, these places are identified, people report them to the Environmental Inspectorate and fine-tuning procedures are also carried out. In general, however, many forest owners do not let vehicles on when the land is soft. This is also reflected in the volume of clear cutting, it is immediately visible there and in our region as a whole. However, precise standards are provided for how deep this track can be, how it is estimated that the soil is broken, how the soil must be restored and what the fines are.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U18	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The main criterion for the sustainability of forest management is probably that felling volumes are not higher than the increase. I know that the forestry development plan is standing right now. But what about this proportion in close-up?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U20	Firstly, it must be viewed over a longer period, not for one year. We need to look at the longer term. We have more anxiety on this issue because today the price of timber is very high and the pressure on logging is higher. However, a few years ago, felling pressure was much lower. Everyone must remember how forest owners complained about not making a forest because the costs of making a forest are essentially as high as the money they get for wood. Now, in a few years, the situation has changed. So we have to look at the longer term. But if you ask what the situation is, assessing how much we grow in the forest will be done by the Environmental Agency in Estonia. This is a sub-office of the Ministry of the Environment. There are experts working on the issue day after day. I trust their judgment. If, from time to time, the accusations that these data are not correct, I can put my hand on the heart that I have never told these people to try to show them the same way or the other way. I believe in the honesty of these people, they do their job with their hearts. I think it is the same as people often hear about statistics on the average wage in Estonia, that this cannot be true, because none of the people who know it earns the average wage in Estonia. The size of the increase in the forest is the same. I trust specialists. These specialists confirm that the volume of the increase is larger than the volume of the forest to be cut. The forestry development plan for this period foresaw a felling volume of 12 to 15 million cubic metres per year. In essence, the volume of felling has been below these figures throughout this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U22	Next, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will answer Maris Lauri's question. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U23	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! This autumn the state gymnasium should be opened in Kohtla-Järve. There are a lot of problems with that, but maybe at some point solutions will be found. But there is one question that there is no answer. The Minister has avoided answering that question, which is why I am asking you. Will Kohtla-Järve state gymnasium be a hundred percent state-language or Estonian-language gymnasium?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U24	Thank you very much, good questioner, for this question. I will clarify one of the points that you have raised. You said that maybe solutions would be found. Solutions must be found, there is no other way. Solutions must be found, very clear and concrete solutions must be found. First of all, the successful launch of Kohtla-Järve State Gymnasium in the autumn requires, in my opinion, a rest of work at the moment. This school is still being created for students, not for political stamps. It is not wise to be carried by emotions in haste. As far as I know at the moment, the Ministry of Education and Research has been negotiating with city leaders and school leaders in particular, and now the focus has been on discussions with students. The aim is to provide each student with a solution that supports his or her development, which means, in my opinion, that we do not have the sense to stick to slogans. Surely the ultimate goal is one; it is an excellent Estonian language skill for all students in this school. In answer to your question about language learning, I am of the opinion that on 1 September 2019 the Kohtla-Järve State Gymnasium will really begin its work and all children who are able to study in Estonian should be allowed to learn one hundred percent in Estonian. Those children who are not yet able to do so have a learning model of 60:40, as the basic school and upper secondary school law provides. This does not mean that we do not have in mind the long-term objective, which I have just said to you, the excellent teaching of the Estonian language. On the contrary, in any case, we must move in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U25	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I saw you on the TV channel PBK this morning. The Russian question of the programme funded by Tallinn was broadcast there. In front of it, there was an ad clip of the Centre Party, where you too were seen and where Russian education was promised to continue. On the same TV channel you were on the air with a Russian-language greeting, while the President of the Republic gave his New Year's greeting. Do you not feel that, as I feel, these signals from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia in this form are not quite correct?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U27	Thank you. First of all, yes, I'm not a big television watcher. As far as I've opened it, I have to acknowledge you from what I've seen there, because there really is a lot of publicity for the Free Party. I don't remember if you're there, or if there's your chairman, Mr. Kaul Nurm, but you're in a good picture, I have nothing to say. Speaking of this New Year's greeting, I will answer you as follows. As far as I am aware, at the end of 2017, if I am not mistaken, we proposed to the National Broadcasting, Channel 2, TV3 and PBK that if they wish, we will bring this New Year's greeting to them, and if they wish to show it, please, but we are not willing to pay for it, for example, through the State Chancellery. If I am not mistaken, ETV+ accepted this proposal and maybe a private channel, not all of it. If you ask me what you feel or not, I've always told you that I'm glad you're working very hard with the Centre Party and helping us along. I remembered a table that was published in the Estonian press, which stated the percentage of criminals in political parties. I'm not saying we're in a good position for the Centre Party, but I made sure that the Free Party was the first. I'm just saying, don't let your party out of focus either. You're always dealing with the Centre Party, that's fine, but don't let the Free Party out of focus either. So that's how I'm gonna answer you. I didn't know you were such a big PBK watcher. I still recommend more face-to-face encounters with people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U28	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U29	Thank you. Prime Minister! You were waving again, as often happens. I asked about the language of instruction, not the language of instruction. These are very different things. Secondly, it is certainly not a political issue, but the local people are very concerned because they were promised a meeting, a letter was sent at the beginning of the year, a meeting was promised, it was cancelled or postponed, and a new deadline was not agreed. People are really worried. If you've been monitoring the media today, you know that a public letter has been sent. People want an answer. March comes, children have to choose school. People will now find out that there is no Estonian-language gymnasium and that children must go to other places to study. Is that your message?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U30	Thank you. First of all, when we were talking about meeting, you didn't specify who or what organization. I think you mean the meeting of the Minister or the Ministry of Education and Research. I really don't have a schedule right now for the Minister of Education and Science or the representatives of the Ministry to meet. We have a meeting of the Scientific and Development Council in a little less than an hour. I will certainly tell the Minister that such a question has come, and I ask him to let you know how these meetings with regard to the Kohtla-Järve state gymnasium have gone. I say once again that children are going to the 10th grade, the 11th grade, and that on 1 September we automatically do 100 percent of Estonian-language learning there, I think you will understand yourself, even 18 to 19 days before the elections, would be very difficult if not impossible. We know that there have been problems with the headmaster, we know that it is necessary to complete the composition of the teachers, to complete the teaching materials. This is very clearly my message. Of course, this school is 100% Estonian-language school, but if there are children who are unable to learn 100% Estonian, then we must rely on the PGS, which is a valid law and which states it at 60:40. As I said in the previous article, I emphasised twice that the direction to which we have to move with this school is in any case the best and excellent Estonian language learning and Estonian language learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U32	The following question is answered by Minister of the Interior, Katri Raik, and asked by Martin Helme. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U33	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! On New Year's Eve, there were several major events in Tallinn that were secured by the police, and we have a big parade ahead of us on the anniversary of the Republic, secured by the police. There will also be a big event on the evening of the same day in the Liberty Square, organised by our party, and I hope that this too will be protected by public authority, because it is the task of public authority to ensure public order. It should not be confused that the organisers themselves organise their own security services. We still have public authority in charge of public order. We have had situations in which public authority has not always understood that it is their job to keep the big events safe. When we had meetings in front of this house, it was said that we were somehow responsible for public order. I want to ask you a question. Do you know and understand that the safety of the torch train is also a police matter, and have you given guidance to your subordinates?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U34	Mr. Chairman! Good questioner, thank you for your question. You've arranged a torch tourniquet yourself many times and had contact with the police on this matter. I understand that cooperation between the organisers of the torch train and the Police and Border Guard Board has so far been very good. Understandably, the Police and Border Guard Board guards all public events. As for the meeting right here in front of the Riigikogu, we know that the police were present. Since people gathered in relatively large numbers and the event was in a sensitive place, the police also brought in additional forces. I'm sure you know that there's a law on public meetings that says what the organizer's responsibility is and at what point the responsibility is transferred to the Police and Border Guard Board. I would like to congratulate the organisers for two things in this November meeting: first, you had made a deal with the security company, I understand you had three representatives of the security company present, and secondly, before the meeting started, you had met the representative of the Police and Border Guard Board and discussed the progress of the event. So congratulations on your work in organizing the November event!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U35	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U36	Thank you. Yes, we have had excellent cooperation with the police both during the torch train in previous years and during the events in front of the house, it has worked well for us, and everything is fine on a practical level. I am concerned that at the turn of the year, we had a huge block of streets to prevent terrorism, which means that the shadow of the immigration crisis has clearly reached our daily security position. In my opinion, in addition to the police during major events, the Defence Police Department should take this seriously during, for example, a singing party or any major event. We've had practical contact. I was worried when we heard here in November how responsibility for all kinds of incidents is, like, just the organisers. That is not really the case. I'm glad to hear you're seeing this thing the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U37	Thanks for the comment. Indeed, I see the situation in the same way, the organiser has his duties and the Police and Border Guard Board has its duties. If you have a request to the defense police to do their job even more seriously, I'm sure I'll pass it on to Arnold Sinisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U38	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, first of all, thank you for your constructive attitude. I hope that you will also regret the fact that you have been confused about this case of the Straomis Beach on the social media with false information. But my question is specifically about the security of public events. Indeed, we have seen the presence of the police in previous years, but I want to point out that the presence of the police has been relatively passive. Police cars have been somewhere on street crosses, the police have been standing there, but if we consider that this year we may not be able to say exactly up to 7,000 people, then we expect the police and the ministry to discuss what kind of forces, to what extent and if...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U41	... visiblely and actively directed to the security of this event.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U42	Thanks again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U43	Are you planning any kind of war against this cause?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U44	Thank you for your question. First of all, about the Stroomi Beach case, yes, I regret it. With regard to the activities of the Police and Border Guard Board, there is no doubt that all events will be subject to threat assessments and meetings with organisers. I'll convey your expectations. I don't know exactly what an active police intervention would mean, but I will convey your serious expectations that the Police and Border Guard Board will be ready to secure the event. I'm sure our police will take all public events seriously. If necessary, the Minister has also participated in these discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U45	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U46	Krista Aru asks, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas responds. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Prime Minister! Last December, a social agreement was signed for additional R &amp; D funding. According to this agreement, we can expect an increase of around EUR 48 million in R &amp; D every year between 2020 and 2023. At the beginning of February, it became clear that plans have already been made in the Government's Committee on Economic Development for how this additional money should be distributed. It is known that only 10% of this additional money would go to academic science, 70% would go to ministries and ministries to support entrepreneurship in particular. Is it planned to set up another research fund-sharing organisation in the Ministry of Economic Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U48	Thank you, good questioner! I hope the Chairman of the Riigikogu does not mind, and neither do you, that I will express a very personal emotion here for a moment. I have been delighted with these debates, dear Krista, which you kept in focus for four years in the composition of their Riigikogu XIII, and I am sad that they cannot be held in the next composition, but you can certainly do so outside the Riigikogu Chamber. My answers are as follows. Yes, first of all, I have to say this, as I said, when I had a presentation on research and development, that it is usually very likely that the Ministry of Finance has indicated the percentage of what we put into science, but then comes the Statistical Office a little bit later and says that this percentage is quite different. I think that we must first bring these basic principles closer together. This convergence means that the costs of higher education will most likely have to be taken separately from the percentage of higher education infrastructure and professional scholarships in particular. So if we reduce it to this, we can say that in 2019 this percentage is 0.71 and the number we have used is likely to be 220 million euros or something. This really means, as you said, that 48 million more will be needed in the coming years. I don't think we can back out of this 1% target. I think the president's initiative was good. You asked if there would be another mechanism for MKM. It has been said that MKM could raise the issue of innovation again, but the basis for the distribution of money has not been established. After all, these percentages are also only the point of the Committee on Economic Development; today, TAN will also discuss them, and the final decision will still be taken by the next government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U49	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll take it from here. R &amp; D funding has rightly been criticised for a wide range of reasons. One of the reasons has certainly been that the link between R &amp; D and the economy is too weak. Is this additional funding expected to improve this, and are there any concrete plans to strengthen this link? Is it not the case that one of the great risks of our research and development is a scientist's too low salary? Do you have any concrete proposals on how the research worker's salary could be approached and how the state could be of concrete assistance here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U51	Thank you. One further clarification in answer to the first question. It is not quite the case that only 10% goes to science and 70% goes through ministries or 50% goes to business. One can say that 10% of this money is research grants to researchers and research groups, 20% goes to actions to support the holistic and institutional functioning of research systems, which are directly related to the academic sector. So that's 30%. When we are talking about the research-based design of sectoral policies and the implementation of sectoral objectives, the R &amp; D measures that support it, or 50% of the R &amp; D activities of companies, we cannot say in any way that this money would have missed scientists in any way. The point is not that they say that 50% of this 48 million is for the private sector and do what you want. No, that's definitely not it. In answer to your question on innovation in R &amp; D, I say yes, I fully agree that there is a need to strengthen the link with the real economy. If, in a good way, we are always chasing this 1% public sector, then we cannot forget that there is a 2% agreement in the private sector. I think that this idea, if we can bring more funding here, for example, the same 48 million, and we give a certain part of it for cooperation between entrepreneurship and science, it should, in my opinion, be a stimulator or encourage the private sector to put more of its money into science. The second part of your question concerned the pay of researchers and, at all, whether the problem is not that there is too little remuneration for researchers. I will start by saying that it is a doctoral scholarship, grant or salary, which I think will certainly need to be increased over the next four years. On the other hand, if we can achieve that researchers are going to work in the private sector, the private sector will also have more interest, more motivation to contribute to it. These were some small measures that I could introduce in two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U52	Thank you! Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Scientists themselves are far more pessimistic about the state of science than you have been in your presentations. But what is your assessment of the situation and your concrete plan? With what message are you going from here to the meeting of the Scientific and Development Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U54	Thank you. As usual, these messages are clear. If you are asking about our agenda, it is first up to the adoption of the R &amp; D Council's action plan for 2019. Secondly, it discusses Estonia's thematic priorities as part of the strategic planning process of the 'European horizon'. Thirdly, there are issues relating to the country's budget strategy for the period from 2020 to 2023 and the financing of R &amp; D and innovation. Fourthly, an overview of smart specialisation and proposals will certainly be made. These are topics or messages that I and my good colleagues are working on at the TAN meeting. I do not know whether your question had anything to do with the media having raised this issue in recent days, whether these percentages of extra money distribution are correct or wrong. As I said to Mrs Krista Arule, point one, of this 1% ambition, I think we must not retreat. That is my firm position. Point two, I think that the debates on how to distribute this additional funding at one point in time have not been locked today; these debates must go on. My message is very specific to both the Minister for Education and Research and the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology: they must take these people to the table and discuss the subject further. There is a need to find consensus and a common part here. It is wonderful that we can contribute more to science, including the so-called science that is on the private sector side. It is absolutely necessary to find a common ground here on how best to do it. We certainly need to move forward with these discussions. This is perhaps my message in this area today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U55	I will conclude on this issue. Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable members of the Riigikogu, so that you do not have to worry too much, I say that the Head of the Riigikogu is sincerely pleased when the members of the government and the MPs speak words of recognition about each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U56	The next questioner is Ivi Eenmaa and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Ivi Eenmaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! One of the darkest and most unfair decisions of the government that has been working for more than two years was the 'double taxation' of pensions for working pensioners, which took 88 euros from the pensioner. Why did you let that happen as Prime Minister and not change it? All the more so since the respective draft of the Reform Party is in the process and is already in the drawer for over a year. Unsatisfied among people like me is growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U58	Dear Ivi, welcome to the Riigikogu and wish you strength in this XIII composition! You see, you're about to start so specifically the Reform Party election campaign in this Chamber, but what to do is, the pressure on you is also great, I understand, by the group. You first asked why we'd done it. This has still been the biggest tax reform of this century. It has actually been a fair tax reform, it has been the one that has brought coherence to Estonian society. These numbers, issued by the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and the Social Insurance Board, are as follows: We take old-age pensioners: 58% have won, 35% have changed nothing. If you add up 58 and 35, it turns out that 93% of old-age pensioners won or didn't change anything. Indeed, 7% had to contribute more to society. They earn more income from both pension and salary, and the level at which this obligation arises is EUR 1352 on a gross basis. Next, working old-age pensioners, here too, the picture is still positive. I want to tell you, good Ivi, right now the right numbers: 63% won, 2% did not change anything, i.e. 65% of working pensioners, and 36% must contribute more, because their income is so much higher. We take unemployed pensioners: 52% won, 42% didn't change anything, or 99% won or they didn't change anything and 1% lost. Of course, we are now coming to the people of working age, which is not of minor importance: 66% won, 17% did not change anything and 17% lost. All together: 86% had a win or nothing changed and 14% had to contribute more.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U59	Ivi Eenmaa, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U60	Thank you! Good Prime Minister! In fact, the scrap of figures that came in response doesn't matter anything. There are one third of the Estonian people like me. Not all pensioners work. But I will continue to ask, now the question is addressed to you as the chairman of the coalition or government's largest party. I've read your program, and I've learned that you don't admit that there's been a mistake. Am I right to understand that in the future, pensioners must rely only on the extraordinary generosity of your party, not on a pension increase based on stable growth? Or is the pension even going to be paid out in exceptional circumstances?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U61	Thank you, good questioner! That's what I'm saying. I still see you in a positive light. You're painting a picture of yourself now that everything is so bad. The people of Estonia remember: Director of the National Library, Mayor of Tallinn, Member of the Riigikogu. Ivi, you've given a lot to society. Now, from what you're asking. In that sense, you get it right. The election campaign is now, and what the Reform Party is saying is really that the pensioners will not change anything. Your party is basically saying this today, isn't it? The sun will rise in the morning and it will set in the evening. He's talking about indexing. This means that we will not be able to overcome this problem, which is the so-called'relative poverty limit', in the case of the elderly. I think the level of ambition offered by the Reform Party is very weak. You asked what the Centre Party was offering. Normally in this Riigikogu, I do not talk about my party's programme or platform, but if asked, I will of course say so. Yes, we, along with the indexation, offer an extraordinary pension increase. For example, we will base 2017 on a relative poverty threshold of EUR 523 and an average old-age pension of EUR 416 for 44 years of service. We see that this 100-euro gap between the relative poverty threshold and the average old-age pension is continuing. Now we're indexing this year. We know that, thanks to indexation, pensions will increase by 8.4% in April. Really, if you ask yourself who's changing the game, I'll say the Centre Party is changing the game because we're also bringing in an extraordinary pension rise. If it doesn't come, and if it's the only thing left with your indexation promise, then it's the usual way, there's nothing going to change. So in that sense, there is a big difference between the two parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U62	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U63	Thank you. In recent years, we have been talking a great deal about the lack of 'work' hands. Certain circles find that the only solution to alleviate this is the introduction of migrant workers. More than 20,000 people came here last year alone. But at the same time we have over 40,000 pensioners who are working, but from whom your tax change took away any motivation to continue working, it also took away the motivation of those future pensioners who would actually have wanted to continue working after their retirement age. Is it that you see only migrant workers as a solution and that you exclude all the possibilities of employing our own people in employment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U64	Thank you, Honourable Henn Põllamaas. I can see that your political power and rhetoric are no longer lost to the Helms. At the end of this XIII membership, I really appreciate that you will be able to put together pensions and working elderly people on the issue, you will also be able to integrate into it the very good, solidarity and fair tax reform that today's government has done, of course, thank you for that. And then you're talking about migrant labour. That's pretty awesome. But I will try to answer this long question specifically. Of course, we understand that when we talk about working elderly people, very many of them work in sectors that have actually been lagging behind for years in terms of wage levels. Let's take social, social welfare, take education, take culture, take, I'd say veterinary, for example. In all these areas, today's government has tried to help as much as possible to catch up on the level of wages. In the field of education, I often work with recognition, my own class manager was very advanced, but very youthful and gave us very good education, people who are actually retired. The average wage for educators, you know it yourself, is EUR 1500, the minimum wage is EUR 1250. We have also raised wages in social welfare, where people also work, whose income depends on both pension and salary. Veterinary medicine can also be an example. So this has been a very important component. I will also take the cultural field as an example. So in any case, I say that older people can be sure. Do we give 200 million, as the Reform Party wishes, as a gift to the wealthiest who earn more than EUR 2100 or to those who earn EUR 400.500? Those who earn €400 to €500 must be given.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U66	The Minister of the Interior, Katri Raik, answers, asks Henn Põlluaas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U67	Thank you. In recent years, after the Chair of the Interior became a socialist, the PBGB has started to take citizenship away from Estonian citizens after birth. I mean the Estonians of Abkhazia, to whom the Republic of Estonia also gave certificates of citizenship before the war. In 1992, the Ministry of the Interior declared all optants who did not travel to Estonia due to circumstances as Estonian citizens after birth. This practice worked before the war, and it was also the case for those who returned after regaining independence. It is now claimed that Estonian citizens are only those who came back from Russia's borders during the year after the Tartu Peace was concluded. It is the duty of the state to support the return of Estonians after birth to their homes, not to hinder them by inventing all kinds of excuses. Why is the practice that has already been used to grant them citizenship not being implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U68	Mr. President! Mr. Pier! First of all, the issue of the Estonians in Abkhazia is very complicated, because there are indeed people of very different backgrounds: those who are mistakenly defined as a born-born citizen and who also have the citizenship of another country, secondly, they have Estonian citizenship through marriage, they also often have the citizenship of another country (we know that today society is quite actively discussing the question of the honourable Estonian teacher Mrs Krenstremi), and thirdly, everyone else who does not belong to the first two categories. Indeed, the issue of optants has been discussed and examined. You are certainly aware that the University of Tartu has produced a report on this subject. It can be said that the current practice of the Supreme Court, the activities of the Police and Border Guard Board and the conclusion of the report of the University of Tartu are consistent: Estonian citizens after birth are, however, the descendants of people who returned to Estonia during the year. I absolutely agree with you that the issue of the Estonians of Abkhazia must be resolved unambiguously and clearly. It is regrettable that there has been a situation in which a person (I am referring to Mrs Rutto) was mistakenly given birth citizenship and then there was a long debate about whether or not he is an Estonian citizen. If the country is wrong, it must admit it is wrong. At the Ministry of the Interior, we are currently drafting a proposal for an exact legislative amendment for the new Riigikogu by April, which will solve the issue of the Estonians in Abkhazia in a clear and clear way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U69	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U70	Thank you. The analysis of the University of Tartu did not take into account the decision of the Ministry of the Interior of 1922 or the fact that the provision on the return from Russia does not concern the Estonians of Abkhazia, as Abkhazia did not settle in Russia then or today. According to the law, it is not possible to take citizenship from these Estonian citizens after birth even if they have taken citizenship from another country. In the case of Abkhazian Estonians who are undoubtedly Estonian citizens after birth, this principle is not applied. Many of them have been forced to take citizenship by naturalisation or, if someone has received citizenship by birth, it is now claimed that it was given erroneously. Against the background of the desire of the Socialists to give citizenship to immigrants here in a simplified way and, in the context of the mass introduction of migrant workers, I am interested in what purpose this persecution of the people of birth started and continues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U71	Thank you for your comment and your question. I repeat the same: I agree with you that the issue of the Estonians of Abkhazia must be resolved unambiguously and clearly. We are preparing in the Ministry to present a legislative amendment to the new Riigikogu. This proposal takes into account the analysis of legal researchers at the University of Tartu. The facts you have also presented are, as far as I can remember, in this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U72	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U73	Thank you, Mr President. A month ago, you proposed a "citizenship window" so that the grey passports would be exchanged with Estonian passports. In general, we have had this principle in different coalitions for a very long time that the fundamentals of citizenship are not changed. There may be some controversy about what these fundamentals are, but surely the change you proposed concerns the fundamentals. I'd be happy to give you the opportunity to say publicly here that it was a communication error that you made as a fresh minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U74	Thank you for your question. I proposed the idea of this citizenship window for discussion. Indeed, there have been many in the debate who have found the idea to be bad, there have also been those who have found the idea to be good. This was in no way a final idea, but it would also have been possible to reach out to the issue of citizenship in the debates. I firmly believe that we must move towards having as few non-citizens as possible in our country. I am pleased to confirm at the moment that in the citizenship contract project initiated by the Ministry of the Interior, I too was quite spacious, and I thought that in order to apply for citizenship, 400 people have registered to date 1,600 people after relatively little advertising. This shows that there are many people who are willing to learn Estonian and apply for citizenship. It is true that this project also allows 20 days of extra leave per year. If these people really go through the Estonian language courses, we could get not 700 citizens a year, but perhaps 1,500 new citizens already. Although the idea of a citizenship window I have come forward is obviously not acceptable to you either, I am sure to agree with you: much more resources should be contributed to learning the Estonian language than is currently the case. If you look at the research, I think these resources could be about four times. It seems that among our middle-aged Russians, Russians over 35 years of age, there has been a new wave of Estonian language learning, and if we do not take advantage of it now, we will be fools.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U75	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U76	Asks Jüri Saar, answers Minister of the Interior Katri Raik.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of the Interior! The National Defence Academy, called the National Defence Academy when it was founded, has been through better and worse times. From the beginning, the Academy has been responsible for preparing competent and loyal officials who will work in the Estonian state's power departments, especially the criminal justice system. In bad times, we started to speak loudly about the secondary functions of the National Defence Academy. Madam Secretary of the Interior, can you say with absolute certainty today that the dark clouds from the Academy of Home Affairs have now disappeared and that this institution will be able to deal with its basic functions calmly, consistently, without worrying?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U78	Thank you for your question, Professor Saar. As former Rector of the Academy of Home Affairs, I am extremely pleased to say that the Academy of Home Affairs is in good mental and physical health and continues its activities. On 22 February, the new study building of the Estonian National Defence Academy will be opened on Kase Street. If everything goes according to the original plans, then in the near future the construction contract for the construction of the Narva school building of the National Defence Academy will also be concluded, which, as a resident of Ida-Virumaa, gives me special pleasure. The internal defence academy has developed a very interesting educational model that will ensure that our police officers, rescuers, prison officers, tax and customs officials will continue to grow in a demographically difficult situation, where we will have to teach these same specialties as a second and third specialty and where re-training may be necessary (for example, if a 50-year-old man can no longer work as a rescuer for health reasons, he will be able to study as a rescue manager/logist). This educational model can be described as a spoiling sandwich or hamburger model. I'm very glad the National Defence Academy has developed and implemented such a model. Once again, the National Defence Academy is fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U79	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Minister of the Interior. Thank you, Minister of the Environment. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U80	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 4th working week session of the IX plenary session on Wednesday. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Thank you. Incoming check, please! 71 is here, missing 30. To clarify the agenda, some rapporteurs have changed on the Commission's decision. Draft 639 and draft 733 Rapporteurs are Aivar Surva, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, and 26th item in the debate, i.e. Bill 728, initiated by the government, is Yoko Alender, vice-president of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U81	Let's start with where our job broke out last night. Second reading of the draft Act amending the Fertiliser Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rural Commission waitress Aivar Surva, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U82	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Act amending the Fertility Act and the State Fees Act was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 25 May last year. The draft plan organises the Fertiliser Register so that it can provide real and up-to-date data on the Estonian Fertiliser Market and can improve monitoring of fertilisers on the Estonian domestic market. The system of state fees will also be simplified, and the current five state fees will be replaced by one which will have to be paid once a year in the future. The first reading was completed by M. a on September 12. No amendments were tabled on the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments, 26 September by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. Four amendments were included on the list of amendments proposed by the commission, the most important of which concerns the rates of state fees. According to the draft, the State fee was planned to be uniform, EUR 65 for each fertiliser entered in the Fertiliser Register, all in the same way. The Committee on Rural Affairs considered that it would still be more appropriate for there to be a difference between small producers and large producers, i.e. small packages of up to 25 kilograms or 25 litres, to be taxed at EUR 10 and all others to be charged at EUR 160. On Monday, 11 February, the Committee on Rural Affairs discussed another proposal that had come from the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. The proposal was to withdraw draft 639 from the procedure, but the members of the Commission considered that since the compromise on small producers has been found, i.e. the state fee has been reduced by nearly 6.5 times, this proposal should not be taken into account and should continue to be dealt with. The Committee on Rural Affairs decided to put the draft on the agenda for a second reading by 12 February and the Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U83	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Four amendments have been tabled for draft 639. Let's go through them. Everything is presented by the Commission, everything is accounted for. First, second, third and fourth. The second reading of Bill 639 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U84	Next, the first reading of the draft Act on Supplementing the VAT Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 763. The opening waitress is Enn Meri. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U85	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party is of the opinion that the discipline of corporate taxation is important, but excessive rigidity restricts the development of small businesses. Time limits for the payment of taxes should be made more favourable for small businesses. The situation of small businesses can be mitigated by extending the VAT tax period. The European Commission has pointed out that VAT obligations are particularly burdensome for small businesses because they have more limited resources than large businesses. The European Commission has also submitted to the Council of the European Union a proposal for a directive on the special scheme for small businesses, which includes a proposal to extend the VAT period to one calendar year. In the case of VAT, the extension of the tax period gives companies the opportunity to invest the available resources in the development of the company. The purpose of the draft is to establish three calendar months for the tax period for small enterprises with annual turnover of up to EUR 200000 and up to 10 employees, with annual turnover of between EUR 200000 and EUR 2 million and three calendar months for the tax period for small enterprises with up to 10 employees. A longer period of taxation reduces the administrative burden for small businesses and the Tax and Customs Board. Less red tape will allow both parties to focus on core activities. The amendment sends the message that the state is an equal partner and does everything for the development of entrepreneurship. The situation of small businesses is becoming fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U86	Any questions for the initiator? No, it's not. Thank you, Enn Meri! The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U87	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed twice by the Finance Committee on 28 January and 11 February. On 28 January a representative of the Government of the Republic was present, but now everyone has a lot of work and has failed to get a representative of the initiators. The representative of the Government of the Republic raised four arguments that are not supported by the Government of the Republic for this purpose. One of these is that effective VAT controls require comparable VAT data provided. If we change the time of declaration, this is not possible, then comparing these data will be more labour-intensive and less effective. The second argument is that the reduction of the VAT return obligation does not reduce the administrative burden for VAT as it has to keep records of turnover on an ongoing basis. Thirdly, a longer tax period means that the company can deduct input tax less frequently, with a clear negative impact. Fourthly, laying down the special features relating to the tax period makes it necessary to amend the other provisions of the VAT Act. The representative of the Government of the Republic also gave examples of what should be done in this regard. The Commission adopted procedural decisions on 11 February. It was decided to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur in this Chamber. To send the bill to the hall yesterday, the 12th was a decision taken in January. It was decided to reject the draft law at first reading (by 4 members of the Commission, against 1). That's how many of us were there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U88	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! There is one reference in the explanatory memorandum. This is because the European Commission has submitted to the Council of the European Union a proposal for a directive on the special scheme for small businesses, which includes a proposal to extend the VAT period to one calendar year in particular. Can you tell us what Estonia's position on this proposal is and did the possibility of such a proposal coming out in the future in Estonia, in other words, have also been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U90	Thank you for your question. When we listened to the representative of the Government of the Republic, it was important to me how the two institutions view this bill, which I believe are among the most effective in Estonia, they are the Tax Administration and the Financial Supervision Authority. It was said very clearly that the attitude was negative, so it seemed unreasonable to continue the debate. With regard to what you are saying, it was asked whether the MTA or the Ministry of Finance had also put forward proposals to reduce the administrative burden on small businesses. It was said that this had not happened during the debate on this draft. In particular, we did not have a debate on any European directive in the Commission. Taking this opportunity, I must say that there is a practice that at some point before possible political changes occur, it would be wise not to touch on the tax system. I am totally in favour of this position and, in any case, I do not think that it makes any sense to take such decisions without taking part in the work of the organisations involved, not to mention that there are just over two weeks left until the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U91	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U92	Thank you, Mr President. The Free Party Group presented this draft law, thinking very clearly about small businesses and reducing their administrative burden. The Commission, making a negative decision, certainly also discussed how our small business has been met during the current government, how the burden has been relieved. How has the situation of small businesses changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U93	This has not been discussed by the Commission. I did not recount what was happening in the Commission, but I deliberately read to you the arguments that brought forward the representative of the Government of the Republic. In view of these, it can be said that this bill does not make the administrative burden on small businesses easier and less costly, on the contrary. I'm not going to read it twice, but it is. One more thing, I repeat what I said in reply to the previous question: the issues of the tax system are too serious to be brought out a few weeks before the elections, in order to increase their support by a few percentage points.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U94	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U95	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to stick to your previous and previous responses. Do you need to extend the tax period to change the tax system?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U96	I do not have a specific position on this issue. You can take it or hold it and stay on it for as long as you want. I'm taking such important decisions after I've talked to those people who depend on this law. The inclusion circle is mandatory when changing each tax. So far, we have received all the coordination from interested organisations. In this case, there is no idea of the real attitude to it. Therefore, I think that the decision taken by the Commission on Monday to reject the draft law is the most correct one. I do not exclude at all that this can be discussed calmly in the next composition, but not two weeks before the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U97	There are no further questions on the draft for the Chairman of the Commission. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 763 at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs 763 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 45 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal of the Monetary Commission, 12 against and 1 abstention. Draft 763 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U98	Third reading of draft law 760 on covered bonds initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! The 760 bill requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. According to the law, therefore, we do presence control. Please! 76 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session. I shall vote on the draft law on covered bonds, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 760. Please take a stand and vote. There were 75 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The law on pledges has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U99	Third reading of Bill 722 of the Law on the Flag Law and Ship Registers Act and of the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Peter Ernits, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group? Very good. On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft, which will come to the vote immediately, is, in fact, groundbreaking. This is one of the few times that this Riigikogu has not acted as a rubber stamp. When this bill was submitted to the Riigikogu from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it was the kind of ship that would not return to the Estonian flag. This opinion was expressed by all maritime organisations in the Committee on Economic Affairs. We are talking about the so-called zero income tax. When we in the Committee on Economic Affairs decided that it was necessary to take into account interest groups and international experience in bringing merchant ships under the flag of the country, the Ministry of Economic Affairs said at first that they would withdraw the draft, because the government's position is still that zero income tax cannot be applied. But the Committee on Economic Affairs was stubborn this time and honored us. The result is that the bill was rewritten. Unfortunately, the officials couldn't do it by the end of the year, as planned, but now you have the bill in front of you. Unfortunately, the bill only deals with merchant ships, not passenger ships. At the same time, maritime organisations have made it clear that attention should also be paid to passenger shipping, and it is high time that the same trans-flagging takes place unnoticed and step by step with passenger ships. Cargo ships are long gone, although Estonian shipowners have about 60 cargo ships. But the Department of Economic Affairs told us to take one thing at a time, and let's not touch the passenger ships. But that's a good thing! Ultimately, this took place very long after Admiral Tarmo Kõuts was still in the Riigikogu and fought for the same thing. As I have said in the past, it is not possible to apply for State aid on the basis of a tax distinction by running against the wall, although, between the second and third readings, this State aid paper was sent to Europe at the request of the Committee on Economic Affairs. So it is actually possible, but our current rulers did not want to address Brussels with the so-called 'aid request', which has been done at the moment. Finally. Of course, there are many negative aspects to this bill, there are no seafarers' pensions or many other things implemented here, but a zero income tax has been carried out, which should result in the merchant ships coming under the Estonian flag again, so that the Estonian flag will at least start flying in the stern of the merchant ships. He doesn't fly there now. Such a small observation. When I started to look at the minutes of the Committee on Economic Affairs this morning, I discovered that although I have been constantly speaking during the discussion of this draft, the minutes revealed that I have never spoken. So this kind of weird little discovery. By the way, the EKRE Group was the only one who tabled on time amendments to this draft, eight in conjunction with colleagues Tarmo Kruusimäe and Krista Aruga.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U101	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U102	Thank you and please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U103	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U104	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! In September 2016, when the Free Party Group organised a debate on the future and situation of Estonian maritime affairs, Vice Admiral Tarmo Kõuts said that Estonian maritime affairs were in crisis. But he didn't say it with a very serious voice because he added that he saw a change in the process. Today we can really say that the process is changing. This bill, which is about to become a law, is not perfect. There are certainly many things missing there, as the previous speaker has already mentioned, the issue of pensions, social security and health insurance, but this is the first step, so that Estonia will still feel like a maritime state again. Well, it's only for cargo ships, but if the cargo ships can move, they can reach the passenger ships. Estonia is a maritime state and therefore, despite all these shortcomings, the Free Party Group supports this draft and welcomes the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U105	On behalf of the Sven Sester Fatherland Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I went to this station at both first and second reading, and in this sense it is really a pleasure to be on this platform today just before the adoption of this law. I think we're witnesses of a historic event. Let's look back. Over time, when discussing quite a number of points of law, we have also discussed whether there should be any exceptions in one sector or another, whether these exceptions are from the devil, and whether we should even discuss exceptions as such. If you look back in history, true story, quite a number of topics have been long-stricken over time. In fact, we are honest, as well as the issues related to bringing ships, ships of Estonian shipowners and ships of potential foreign owners under the Estonian flag, have not moved far over the years. In this sense, I am particularly pleased today that we have actually come to a common understanding, and this is a cross-party approach, that it is reasonable to grant derogations at certain moments. I think that if we talk about exceptions at all, there should be as few as possible and as many as necessary. If we look specifically at this bill that, I hope, will become a law in the near future, then it must be said that we are not competing within the country, but we are competing as a country with other countries. It's a global business. If, unfortunately, in other countries, the situation is such that certain advantages are granted to shipowners, then we can be proud that we have a simple and clear tax system, but our problem is that we do not have a tax base, we do not have those who would pay us taxes according to this clear and simple tax system. When you start to think about whether to take a small weasel with a large scoop or take it from a large, wide river with small spoons, it seems more reasonable to go to a wider base and lower tax levels. That's what this bill is about to do now. I think this is certainly one of the historic drafts in this context, which, I believe, we can be proud of. In fact, this bill is certainly not the only magic wand; we must actually make quite a variety of changes during this period, which begins after the adoption of this law. This is one stage that we will face in the short term in terms of different activities, but we have at least taken one step. Perhaps much has been said about the possibility for seafarers not to pay income tax. In addition, there are a number of changes to this draft, which have never been in Estonian law before. I'll bring out a few things. There's never been a ton of this kind of thing before. In other parts of the world, it's a classic thing, there's nothing weird about it, there hasn't been one in Estonia. Reeders will be able to choose different tax systems in the future, to choose whether to pay tax according to the classic income received or to pay tonnage tax and, in this case, to earn as much income as it arises by not paying additional income tax. There has been no such thing in Estonian law. Or different registers. The combo that could be created in Estonia in the form of a potentially more attractive form of income tax, in addition to our ability to manage different registers electronically and the simplicity that allows for different operations without bureaucracy, and our e-residency should also provide such synergy that we will certainly be able to compete with other countries in the future. Once again, I stress that this change is not the initiative of shipowners... It'll take me three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U107	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U108	... only this is specifically the interest of the Estonian state. The Estonian state is interested that instead of today's zero cargo ship, tens of ships, if not hundreds, would be seen in the register in the future. So once again, there are a number of changes to the draft, apart from tax changes. It can be pointed out that we are proposing a completely new social tax and health insurance regime for seafarers for the future. We are also making changes to the Health Insurance Act, so that seafarers have the opportunity to enter into voluntary contracts with the Health Insurance Fund (this option has never been available before), and a special social tax scheme is created, compulsory health insurance is waived. These are things that have never been before. I, as the lead manager of this draft, thank all parties, so there were many market participants by market participants, were shipowners, trade unions, professional associations, but I really thank the Maritime Administration and ministries. A lot of work is done. The procedure for this draft has not been a month or two, this procedure has lasted for years. Finally, I would also like to thank the Committee on Economic Affairs, which took a very active part in the procedure. Ultimately, this product is on our table today, and I think it is certainly, as I said before, one of the first steps to bring Estonia, as a maritime state, to a new level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U109	Erki Savisaar on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party has stood up for the theme of merchant ships for well over ten years. We drew attention to this problem even when we still had cargo ships. We did it to keep these cargo ships. We are very pleased that today we are taking this small step to get the cargo ships back under the Estonian flag. I would also like to thank all the stakeholders who contributed to the creation of this law, especially the Ministry of Economic Affairs, who has brought this law here. Of course, this law is a good example of how the Riigikogu not only endorses the law that came from the Ministry, but makes substantial improvements to it, which we believe will significantly improve this law. I want to wish strength to the Maritime Administration, who must take the next step so that, through the measures they have written in the law, cargo ships come under our flag, and Estonia could once again say that it is still a great maritime state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U111	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U112	Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of this law is undoubtedly an important milestone in our law of the sea. A lot of nice emotional words have been spoken here. I guess the blue black and white flag waving over the sea is a very beautiful and emotional thing. In fact, however, this bill is not such an emotional issue, as it is still a fundamental economic issue. Indeed, this issue has been discussed here in two or three Riigikogu formations. I remember there were support groups here. The former sailor Kalev Kallo has said a lot about it here. But this draft is undoubtedly linked to quite complex exceptions, and there has never been a consensus or good political will in this Chamber on the issue of granting these exceptions. In order for us to get this far, the country has had to mature a little. He has now matured, in the sense that the content of this draft is also part of the current coalition coalition agreement, which means that, together with the adoption of this law, one of the important elements of the coalition agreement will also be fulfilled. Now to its economic content. This bill certainly does not mean that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or in a year's time, the blue-black-white flag will be pulled over all Estonian merchant ships. The reality is, however, that this is the first step. Our maritime administration has done quite well here, working hard to bring the various legal possibilities of different countries here, but it is only the first step for our maritime administration, the next steps will start with how our IT solutions will work on ship registers and how our port services will grow behind all of this. If these changes in laws, IT developments and all these issues do not grow here, then the emotional side will also be removed. Let's talk about the economics. At present, however, the pool has been very clearly on the plus side, but only after all the activities that should follow this bill in the second and possibly third stage, we can say that the blue-black-white flag is waving above our ships and that the revenue side on the panel outweighs the cost. Now, to be more optimistic and to talk about what has been said here, so that all passenger ships can go under the same approach, this is still a more questionable problem. A lot of passenger ships still travel across the Gulf of Finland. All those working on them live half the time on earth and consume services, and half the time is on the sea. So it would probably be quite problematic, because all of them use you, police services, school services, medical care, etc., all of them. All these relatively high-paid people would then receive services from a co-operative boiler, but they would not put their contribution there. That would be questionable. However, in the case of the merchant fleet, this is an acceptable and sensible step. The Social Democratic Party Group supports this draft to become a law, and I also recommend that other colleagues support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U113	I will conclude the negotiations and go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law 722 amending the Law on the flag law and ship registers of the ship initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws. Please take a stand and vote. There were 77 members of the Riigikogu, no one opposed and 1 abstention. Bill 722 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U114	Draft Act amending the Social Benefits for Disabled Persons Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, 663 Third reading. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U115	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, While the previous draft here was about almost historical change, and I am quite in agreement with it, something similar can be said about this draft, only in a slightly sadder tone, in the sense that maintaining the level of support for children with disabilities since 2006, when life has simply gone away, is one thing that is incomprehensible. Fortunately, the Committee on Social Affairs has very well understood that this is incomprehensible. Very rarely has it happened in this Chamber that the draft law initiated by the Free Party is reaching the point where it will be passed as a law. If that is the case with the vote, I would like to thank all my fellow Members, and especially the Committee on Social Affairs, for that. If, on a previous draft, Mr Stalnukhin shaped his position mainly according to the fact that officials do not like it and that it does not go immediately, then the Social Affairs Committee has not maintained such a line. My point is that the Social Affairs Committee has practiced thinking about various initiatives from the very point of view that it is the Riigikogu that makes the decisions. Perhaps if we were to place points on the committees on this scale, which is closest to the rubber stamp and which is farthest from it, then the Committee on Social Affairs seems to be one of those furthest away. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U116	Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U117	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! The Social Democrats, of course, support the Act on the Amendment of the Law on Social Benefits for Disabled Persons, initiated by the Free Party. This is an extremely important decision that families of children with disabilities, with nearly 13,000 children with disabilities, have been eagerly waiting for 13 years, and which finally gives them the assurance that higher subsidies will make it possible to pay better for their treatment, medicines and transport and improve their lives. The Riigikogu also shows with this decision that Estonia values the contribution and care of families in raising a disabled child. According to the Constitution, families with children and people with disabilities must be under the special care of the state. When more support from the state has reached children's families, children with disabilities have not so far. I am very pleased that this debt will be paid in the last days of the current Riigikogu, hopefully cross-party, and in Estonia, from 1 January 2020, the allowance for an average disabled child will rise from 69 euros and 4 cents to 138 euros and 8 cents, the allowance for a serious and profound disabled child from 80 euros and 55 cents today to 161 euros and 10 cents for a severely disabled child, and 241 euros and 65 cents for a deeply disabled child. Thank you for your very pleasant cooperation both in the Committee on Social Affairs and, hopefully, in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U118	Priit Sibul on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U119	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is probably not unknown to anyone that the Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing amendments to the principles of disability policy and the modernisation of services and benefits. The aim is to review and organise the regulation of the payment of social benefits to persons with disabilities and the organisation of the provision of services as a whole, so that, in combination, benefits and services can deliver the best results in helping people throughout their lives. Among other things, the plan is to review the volume of benefits and services provided to disabled people. We know that people with the same degree of disability and even seemingly similar damage or disorder may need very different levels of financial services and assistance. It is clear that monthly financial support often does not cover the extra costs of disability that a disabled person makes to cope with his daily life. On the other hand, people with disabilities have pointed out that services are particularly needed to support everyday life. A survey of children with disabilities and their families also showed that, in addition to the benefits, families valued services highly, seeking better access to services. According to the survey, almost all, 96¢97% of the parents of children with disabilities have a need for at least one social service. The state has taken several steps in recent years to make services more accessible to disabled children and their families. For children with severe and deep disabilities, services have been provided for three years from the European Social Fund. While services were provided for 2.8 million in 2016, direct services were provided for around 7 million in 2018. In 2018, EUR 4.65 million was allocated to local governments to provide childcare services and other services for families of children with severe and deep disabilities. It should be noted that this money for municipalities is a very flexible area of use, the provision of services or the coverage of additional financial costs for children with disabilities can be decided by the municipality according to the need, which is an important opportunity to approach each person on a need-based basis. Parents have indicated spending on medicines as one of the biggest extra costs. Last year, an additional medical allowance of more than €10 million was introduced for people with high medical needs. Evidently, disabled people have benefited greatly from this benefit. Access to public social services in all age groups has been improved, including improved access to services for children. For example, at the beginning of 2015, there were 10,000 people in the order of rehabilitation services, and by now this order has been abolished. In order to ensure the smooth operation of services, additional funding has been found on several occasions, such as EUR 2.5 million for rehabilitation services and EUR 4 million for aids during 2017. Growth was also last year, and additional funding for public social services is set at around EUR 14 million for that year. It is appropriate to quote Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, who has said in her reply to this draft: 'Work to improve access to services will continue. Given that the issue of financing disability benefits and services remains topical despite the above-mentioned support measures and that the preparation and entry into force of the project to modernise disability policies and services and grants will take its time, temporary mitigating measures, including an increase in subsidies, will undoubtedly also be useful. In the longer term, however, we want to move from universal support to a more comprehensive assessment of the need for assistance to disabled people by choosing aid measures according to individual needs. ' For any change, but especially for changes in the social field, the money must be read correctly so as not to share unscathed promises. The initiators of the draft act asked for EUR 1 million from the state budget for this draft, which could raise about EUR 8 instead of EUR 70, 80 or 160. The Ministry has now added the correct calculations. The cost of these changes is EUR 13.5 million per year, not EUR 1 million, and it is now possible to adopt this law in such a way that it also contains the correct numbers. I hope that local authorities will review the opportunities that exist and make their systems more flexible. As I said, there are opportunities and means. I wish us all luck. The people who have the most complex must, of course, be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U120	I will close the negotiations because there are no more requests to speak. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Social Benefits Act for Disabled Persons, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, 663. Please take a stand and vote. There were 72 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Bill 663 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U121	Third reading of the draft Act amending the Prisons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Prisons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 680. Please take a stand and vote. There were 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft act, no one opposed, with one abstention. The Act amending the Prison Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U122	The third reading of the draft law amending the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U123	Honourable Bureau! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this bill is still coming to a final vote. He started at the Ministry of Education while I was the Minister of Education. He actually has two sources of substance. The immediate motivation was the shooting of Viljandi's school when it was discovered that the teacher had no right to prevent and intervene in such situations. When I arrived at the Ministry, thoughts had been expressed on this subject, but I think the bigger idea of this draft is still the authority of teachers in general. The reputation of the entire teaching profession has suffered a great deal over the years. Listening to the memories of my late mother in my home, I've had to hear it a lot. That is why I asked the ministry officials if it was possible to do something at law level in this area. Teachers feel that they have no rights and their profession is often inferior, and on the other hand, students know that the teacher does not have rights. These two things together gave birth to this bill. He is, unfortunately, a little too secure, but it is also a question of authority, whether a teacher can do anything or not, or whether he is the only way to call the police for help. We have come so far that we have found legal solutions. Of course, this saga has been a bit rude, because this bill was frozen in the government for nearly a year. I then presented this draft in the Riigikogu on behalf of my group, in the form that it had been developed in the ministry, in full quality, analysed, taking into account in-depth international experience, and with a long explanatory memorandum. But, yeah, he was stopped after the first reading, which wasn't pretty. It wouldn't have been necessary to set aside exactly the same government bill for him over the next year, but it was done. They showed me who's still in power in this country. Fortunately, the end was so polite that the details of the substance were discussed, this issue of authorship is not important. And now these are the two drafts, the two identical things at the same time in this reading. In any case, I suggest that we support this bill. I hope that this small step is part of the way in which the teacher's authority will be restored more widely, not only on the issue of immediate security, but also on the basis of the teacher's authority to introduce teaching in general, not only on safety, but also on learning. It may require more regulation, but it certainly requires this regulation. When it comes to the substance of the draft, it must be said that it tends to be so over-regulated, over-regulated. Here, teachers are given this right selectively, which gives the impression that only one teacher could do something about dangerous and forbidden things. I hope that this right will be enjoyed by all teachers and that the exercise of this right will be part of teacher training in the future, that those situations where the discretion is in the hands of the teacher will be solved professionally by all teachers, and we will no longer be nervous that the teachers may cross the border. No, barely Estonian teachers are crossing the border, they hardly use their rights excessively, that would be a very big exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U124	Please, on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U125	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! The Group of the Estonian Free Party supported this bill already the first time we discussed the draft submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. We support this bill now and welcome it. To the Estonian Student Association, who expressed great concern when meeting the Committee on Culture, that this law will change the whole school environment because the teachers they called one party would, as if, have more rights and could abuse their rights and use them very much, I would like to say that this law certainly does not change the atmosphere of the school. The school environment is still shaped by teachers, students, headmasters, all the people who are in school. What does this law do? This law may, as the first step on the long road, give teachers some rights, a little certainty, because what we really hope is that the next Riigikogu will go on this road is the restoration of the authority of the teaching profession. This is what the education of the whole country needs and, in fact, the whole of Estonia. Because if there is a matter of life in Estonia, it is the quality of our education. This bill gives not only one teacher the right to monitor safety at school, but it gives all teachers the opportunity to deal with it at school, plus it certainly gives a very clear clue and precept on the training of our teachers. Teacher training must be more complete, more modern and meet the country's general requirements for education. The Free Party Group supports this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U126	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 799. We'll do that in a minute and a half. I am voting on the draft law amending the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 799. Please take a stand and vote. 76 Members voted in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Draft 799 of the Act amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U127	Second reading of the draft Act amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act, initiated by the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities, 783. Ants Laaneots, member of the National Defence Commission, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities of the Riigikogu initiated this draft m. a on 18 December. The first reading of the draft was completed in s. a on January 16th. No amendments to the draft were tabled outside the commission by the deadline of 30 January at 5.15 p.m. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft at its meeting on 17 January and decided to support it. On 21 January, the Minister of Defence, Jüri Luik, issued the opinion of the Government of the Republic, which also included proposals to clarify the wording of the draft. On 18 December last year, the Board of the Riigikogu appointed a draft commission to the National Defence Committee, but advised the National Defence Committee to ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs for an opinion on the draft. As the draft was initiated by the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, which supervises the area of government of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Committee on Legal Affairs has no direct contact with the draft, the members of the committee considered that the opinion should be sought from the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. In addition to the above, the National Defence Committee also brought representatives from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence into the procedure. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before the second reading on 21 January and 11 February. On 11 February, Raivo Aeg, Chairman of the Special Committee on Security Authorities Supervision, Erki Kodar, Deputy Chancellor of Justice and Administration of the Ministry of Defence, Ingrid Muul, Head of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, Margo Grosberg, Head of the Defence Intelligence Centre, Raivo Küüt, Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Internal Security, Law and Migration Policy, Aleksander Toots, Deputy Director General of the Defence Police Department, and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In its opinion of 29 January, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also proposed that the right to discreet surveillance does not include the right to restrict the right of individuals to the secrecy of messages and to home and family and privacy, which actually coincides with the draft proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic. The National Defence Committee notes with regard to the above-mentioned opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the draft does not give the Defence Forces the right to use conspiracy in the area of security or the right to observe all persons in the area of security in secret. According to § 541 (2) of the Act on the organisation of the Defence Forces, the use of shadow data and conspiracies and the discreet monitoring of a person are permitted only in urgent cases and to identify the increased threat and, if necessary, to counter it. Paragraph 5 (4) of the Law Enforcement Act defines an increased risk as a threat to a person's life, physical integrity, physical freedom, a high value asset, a risk of serious damage to the environment or a risk of committing a class 1 crime or a criminal offence as set out in Chapter 22 of the Penal Code, Chapter 15. As a balancing mechanism, the obligation of the Defence Forces to use as little as possible the fundamental rights of individuals in the execution of military intelligence in the presence of a number of possible remedies. Point 16 of the draft also introduces an obligation for the Defence Forces to inform the person when he or she has been discreetly monitored and, if the person so wishes, to inform him or her of the data collected during the surveillance. For which persons and for how long the Defence Forces will carry out a background check, the law already in force has been regulated (I am talking about § 413.4110) of the Order of the Defence Forces Act). The Defence Forces Organisation Act also laid down in 2014 the so-called transitional provisions for persons already serving and working in the Defence Forces at the time of the entry into force of the Act. These provisions are Articles 57 (10) and 57 (11) of the Defence Forces Organisation Act. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs expressly states that the right to discreet surveillance does not include the right to restrict the right of individuals to the secrecy of messages and the right to the privacy of their homes and family and private life coincides with the Government of the Republic's proposal for a draft. Now for more details on the amendments. Amendments 2 to 6 tabled by the National Defence Committee result from the Government of the Republic. a details of the draft at its meeting on 17 January. On the recommendation of the Deputy Chancellor Raivo Küüt, Raivo Aeg and the Ministry of the Interior, the National Defence Committee did not support the proposals of the Government of the Republic concerning the addition of the provisions of subsections 8, 18 and 21 of the draft, with a list that would exclude certain activities under the so-called 'hidden surveillance' concept. Since it is not possible to provide an exhaustive list of what is not understood by law under covert surveillance, it is not correct to mention only a few measures. Raivo Aeg, representative of the initiator of the draft act, supports the following amendments by the National Defence Committee. The reasons for the amendments are set out in more detail in the explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft, where they can be read, if anyone is interested, so I will not read them all. Amendment 2 gives the structural units designated in the Defence Forces' Statute the right to verify personal data from the database of a private legal person. These databases include, for example, car rental companies and casino databases. Please note that this right is already available to the relevant structural unit of the Defence Forces in the context of the collection of data under § 415 (1) (4) of the Defence Forces Organisation Act. Finally, I would point out that the Government of the Republic supports the draft. The amendments proposed by the National Defence Committee constitute an agreement between representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The amendments set out in the draft are essential in order to reduce the practical constraints on the effective and purposeful exercise of military intelligence and on the practical exercise of the powers conferred on the Defence Forces to carry out military intelligence. The bill gives the Defence Forces better chances of discovering potential traitors than before, unfortunately, we have to stop the leak of sensitive information. I would stress that the background check of the Defence Forces is not a security check, the latter is within the competence of the Defence Police Department, and that remains so. As a result of the above, the National Defence Committee, including at its meeting on 11 February, decided by consensus that the Riigikogu would be invited to conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U129	There's a question for the waitress. Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U130	Thank you. Good waitress! You said in your speech that the Defence Forces always choose the least possible measure. At the same time, when I look at the amendments, one of them is precisely the kind that throws out the principle that was originally written in the draft law. In other words, this point, which concerns proportionality, removes the fact that the Defence Forces use only the necessary means to carry out military intelligence and, in the case of multiple measures, uses one that least disturbs the fundamental rights of the individual. I'm confused now. Your speech concerned the choice of the least restrictive measure, but it is precisely this proposal that has been deleted from the list of amendments. What, then, is the Commission's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U131	How many amendments is that? I've got six of them here. [[???H. Pevkur saalist: 'Esimene.'???]] First of all? It reads: "The Defence Forces use only the necessary means to carry out military intelligence. A number of possible means are used to limit the fundamental rights of individuals as little as possible in relation to the exercise of military intelligence. A measure which does not unduly restrict the fundamental rights of an individual compared to the objective pursued by the intelligence of the Defence Forces may be used. ' (H. Pevkur comments from the floor.) That's what we're presenting right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U132	I would remind you that up to two oral questions can be submitted to the rapporteur. Besides, I can already see that Hanno Pevkur wants to speak in the negotiations. Has the situation been resolved and we can move on? No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. As this is a second reading, everyone will be able to speak. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U133	Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation of this draft has been going on for quite a long time. Let it be said in the introduction that the purpose of this draft is very correct. Of course, the state and the Defence Forces must be able to carry out their duties; the Defence Forces must also be able to perform certain counter-intelligence tasks. Two amendments have been tabled during the procedure for this draft, which is very difficult to accept. I really hope the hall has a good sense of rejecting them. These are Amendments 1 and 2. I will also explain why these amendments are wrong. Amendment 1 proposes that the principle of proportionality be deleted. The principle of proportionality is crucial in the case of counter-intelligence. The Ellik's choice of a measure to be used in intelligence, as well as in background checks, must start with the least damaging measure to a person's fundamental rights, and only when it is not enough can a tougher measure be used. It's currently written in the expression verb. This general principle, the ultima ratio principle that the state will not use it anyway, does not apply unless it is stated in the defence intelligence case. I do not understand why this proposal was proposed by the National Defence Committee; it did not make this draft law any more acceptable. On the contrary, with this amendment, we say that the violation of fundamental human rights can be greater. There's nothing you can do about that. I believe that one day the Chancellor of Justice or, where appropriate, the President of the Republic will also point out that the principle of proportionality is excluded from the selection of the measure in the case of intelligence. The second amendment concerns the use of private databases. Indeed, as Ants said, it exists in the current law. In the current law, however, the right is limited to those who have entered the service themselves or have signed that they are cooperating with the Estonian Defence Forces. Perhaps it concerns people who have signed the agreement to be allowed to exercise control over them. This point, which also includes private databases, concerns people who are not yet involved in cooperation. Those people who are not involved in cooperation may not even start working with the state, which theoretically creates the possibility that a person will be asked about private databases, that a person will never know about it, that there will be a file on him, but that a person has been subjected to some kind of background check, for example, that it has even affected private databases. This, of course, also means a burden on private database owners; they must allow the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre to look at this data, but it does not have to be communicated to the public. That is the provision. I think that the checks carried out before involving a person must be limited to the public data available to the state, as was originally the case in the draft. These are the two amendments that are very difficult to accept. They are also likely to be contrary to the Constitution (or at least they are creating a major question mark), namely the part concerning the ultima ratio principle and the use of private databases. This latch is too big. True, it makes perfect sense that all those people who are already involved in cooperation or are in active service take into account that the state is carrying out checks on them. In this sense, all other changes, which also involve greater cooperation with the Defence Police, are not a problem; they are very reasonable; the Defence Forces must work more closely with the defence police to achieve this goal, i.e. to carry out counter-intelligence. When it comes to apprehending traitors, of course, it is the task of the Defence Police; it is not the task of counterintelligence of the Defence Forces. My proposal is to reject Amendments 1 and 2 in this Chamber today so that the draft stays in line with the Constitution and with its original point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U134	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Six amendments to the draft have been tabled. Let's go through them together. All amendments have been tabled by the National Defence Committee and the decision is the same: take full account. Let's still go through them. The first amendment. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U135	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U136	On behalf of the Group? Please! Andres Herkel, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U137	Yes, Mr President, I have a procedural question. Since, in costaires, the mixed voices on the first and second amendments sound as if they could be misformed by the Commission, perhaps it would be wise to take a break so that the Commission can clarify this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U138	Is the Commission okay with this? Director's break is five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U139	Has the Commission reached agreement on the first amendment and possibly on the second amendment? Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U140	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I'm just saying, for the sake of the record, that everything should be settled. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities have different drafts in the procedure. The draft law on the protection of personal data is on the agenda somewhere below. However, in order to avoid conflicts between the two draft laws, it would be reasonable, for reasons of clarity, to support the proposal of the National Defence Commission. In the Personal Data Protection Act, the exact regulation of the same point is required.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U141	If the Commission still needs time for creative work, we will in the meantime protect plants and maybe at that time it will be possible to further process it. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U142	Thank you, Mr President. In this case, the question arises as to how the members of the Riigikogu who do not support the Personal Data Protection Act in this form should behave. In that case, these drafts are in the wrong ranking before us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U143	There is also a Commission behind this bill. The President shall act on proposals from the committees. But I admit, it's a smart question. Are we in agreement and ready to vote, hall? [[???Hääled saalist: 'Jaa.'???]] Let me remind you that we are dealing with bill 783 and the revision of the amendments is underway. The first amendment has been tabled by the National Defence Committee. The Reform Party Group has proposed to vote on this. Please take a stand and vote. There were 55 delegates in favour of the amendment, 2 against, with no abstentions. The second amendment is also from the Committee on National Defence. The decision of the commission is to take full account. So are the third, fourth, fifth and sixth amendments, as well as the decision of the Committee on National Defence and the commission of directors, to take full account of them. We have examined all six amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U144	The ninth item on the agenda is the second reading of the Act on Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Rights, on Administrative Cooperation and on the Amendment of the Law on State Fees, published by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Surva, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Rights Act, the Administrative Cooperation Act and the State Fees Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 22 October 2018. The draft will simplify the system of seed certification. Seed producers shall be given the opportunity to carry out field inspections and to take seed samples from seed lots to be certified and also to analyse them. The draft shall include varieties of fruit crops among the varieties of the species to be taken into the variety sheet. They could still be registered, but they were not included in the catalogue. The draft specifies the rules on the availability of information on seed produced for own use and on the payment of the licence fee to the holder for the use of the protected variety. A system shall be established to collect information on the varieties and seeds used. The draft will raise the state fees for seed certification. Seed producers who make use of the possibility provided for in the draft to carry out field inspections themselves and to take samples of the seed to be certified, or to use the service of an authorised person, shall be exempt from the payment of the state fee. The first reading of Bill 733 was completed by M. a on 14 November 2005. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 28 November at 5.15 p.m., the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees of the Riigikogu tabled no amendments to the draft. The Commission discussed its m. a at its meeting on 10 December, including 21 January and 11 February, amendments and further consideration of the draft. 14 amendments have been included in the list of amendments proposed by the Committee on Rural Affairs. The Commission proposes to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U146	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much, dear waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. 14 amendments have been tabled for bill 733. Let's go through them. All have been submitted by the Committee on Rural Affairs and the decision of the commission has been the same: to be fully taken into account. However, the first amendment, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth, the tenth, the eleventh, the twelfth, the thirteenth and the fourteenth amendments, the author being the Committee on Rural Affairs, the decision of the commission is to take full account. The proposed amendments to the draft have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U147	Today's tenth item: Second reading of the draft law amending the Tobacco Act and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Helmen Küti, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U148	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I will give you an overview of what took place in preparation for the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on tobacco and excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity after the first reading was completed on 16 January. The deadline for amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 23 January 2019. The Riigikogu members Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must, Jüri Saar and Märt Sults submitted amendments within the deadline. A total of 15 amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu. Before the first reading of the draft, the Social Committee sent a letter to the organisations involved in the preparation asking for proposals and opinions on the draft text relating to the scope of the draft. The Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers and Philip Morris Eesti OÜ also participated in the preparation of amendments and drafts. In addition, on the basis of the discussions that took place before the first reading, the Commission sent a letter to the Ministry of Social Affairs, which was also discussed in this Chamber at first reading. We proposed that the Ministry of Social Affairs discuss the need to include a new category of tobacco products in the Tobacco Act 'heated tobacco products' and to initiate a draft law on this matter. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Flying Liblikas OÜ sent their draft opinion and amendments. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry expressed its support for the amendments proposed by the members of the Riigikogu to include tobacco products that are heated under the regulation of the draft. After the completion of the first reading, the draft was on the agenda of the Committee on Social Affairs at three meetings: 28 and 29 January and 11 February. I will give you an overview of what happened at these meetings. On 28 January, members of the Social Affairs Committee, Monika Haukanõm, Igor Kravtšenko, Jüri Jaanson, Liina Kersna, Tarmo Kruusimäe (alternate for Maire Aunaste), Marika Tuus-Laul, Maris Lauri, Raivo Põldaru and Viktor Vassiliev, attended the meeting. Maret Mets, Deputy Secretary General of Health of the Ministry of Social Affairs Maris Jesse, Deputy Head of Legal Department Ebe Sarapuu, Chief Specialist of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance Maret Mets, representatives of Philip Morris Eesti OÜ Attorney General Jüri Raidla and Maris Leemets, representative of Japan Tobacco International Jaanus Pauts, Head of the Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers Taavi Salumets and member of the Riigikogu Madis Milling. First of all, Mr Raidla presented the amendments to the draft and also spoke about what we had already discussed at first reading: that these amendments were discussed in the Committee on European Union Affairs on 7 January. He explained that this was not the sole interest of one company in the long term, in fact it concerns all producers whose tobacco products should be heated in their product portfolio. Tarmo Kruusimäe gave an overview of the draft amendments. Like all relevant documents, the amendments are open to the public, so it is likely that there were two types of amendments. Some concerned the regulation of heated tobacco products, while others concerned the area of e-cigarette. In the Committee on Social Affairs, both Tarmo Kruusimäe and Madis Milling were heard, who complemented the subject of e-cigarettes. Ebe Sarapuu introduced the amendments tabled by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which were three. They were subsequently finalised in the form of proposals by the Social Affairs Committee. The Ministry's proposal was to make use of the exception resulting from the Act and provides that in the case of tobacco products placed on the market in Estonia, the unique identifier issuer is an Estonian designated issuer. It has become apparent that all Member States are planning to make use of this derogation. In view of the above, a longer transitional period could be granted for a period of three months. In other words, until 20 August 2019, Estonia could recognise the unique identifiers given by the issuer of the identifier of the country of production and from 20 August Estonia would have been designated as the issuer of the unique identifier. Tarmo Kruusimäe asked that if a unique identifier has already been placed on the packaging in the producer country, why would it be desired that the Estonian unique identifier issuer should start repacking in Estonia. Maret Mets replied that the idea is that all tobacco packs receive codes in Estonia, not abroad. During the presentation of these proposals, quite a few questions were asked. We received a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs that the Ministry considers that there are, in principle, no obstacles to the entry of heated tobacco products into the Estonian market, but the problem is the correct application of the regulation of health warnings. There are also questions about pack size. After considering the different options, it was considered reasonable to make a separate regulation. It is important that all other consumption rules applicable to other smoking and non-smoking products, such as advertising bans and restrictions, apply to heated products. The Ministry of Social Affairs therefore supports proposals concerning heated products. The Vice Chancellor added that the Ministry did not support the proposal to abolish the ban on the use of flavourings in e-cigarettes in liquids. He also pointed out that e-cigarette is not a recognised means of quitting smoking. As chairman of the committee, I noted that, at the meeting on 14 January, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to continue the debate within the framework of the draft proposed by the government, i.e. on the adoption of the directive and on how we will proceed. Jüri Jaanson asked that in the past representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs have pointed out that there are no problems with the use of heated tobacco products in the light of the tobacco law, so why has it been found that it needs to be regulated at law level? Jüri Raidla and Ebe Sarapuu provided answers. If anyone wants to read them thoroughly, the protocol is public. I'm not going to read the whole protocol here. Following the discussion of all these proposals and the answers to questions, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to continue its debate and to vote, as usual, after hearing the parties involved at the next meeting, i.e. on 29 January. On 29 January, Monika Haukanõm, Igor Kravtšenko, Jüri Jaanson, Madis Milling, Tarmo Kruusimäe (alternate for Maire Aunaste), Maris Lauri, Raivo Põldaru and Viktor Vassiliev took part. [[Ms Liina Kersna's alternate]] Maris Jesse, Deputy Secretary-General of Health from the Ministry of Social Affairs, Maret Mets and Heidi Vessel from the Department of Finance, and Ebe Sarapuu, Deputy Head of the Legal Department from the Ministry of Social Affairs. At this meeting, the Commission continued to discuss amendments to the draft with representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. I, as chairman of the committee, announced that, after the meeting of the Social Committee, Philip Morris sent additional opinions on the draft by representatives of Eesti OÜ and Japan Tobacco International. Maris Jesse noted that the Ministry of Social Affairs had examined the opinions submitted and once again discussed the issue of heated tobacco products. It was decided that, as there are still a number of open questions with heated tobacco products, the Social Affairs Committee's proposal to consider initiating a new draft and continuing to process the 775 SE should be supported, focusing on the main objective of the draft, i.e. the transposition of Articles 15 and 16 of the Tobacco Directive into Estonian law. I asked that if, however, the Commission decides to support the amendments to be tabled on heated tobacco products, what does that mean for the use of flavourings? They are currently prohibited for e-cigarettes. Maris Jesse replied that special regulation would be created for heated products. According to the current wording, these products can be used even if they have flavours in their liquid, and this is not supported by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry supports equal treatment for different tobacco products, i.e. non-use of flavours. Therefore, the introduction of specific regulation for heated products cannot be supported until all the relevant technical regulation notifications to the European Commission have been thoroughly analysed and made. Mr Põldaru wanted to clarify whether or not the Tobacco Directive permits flavours. Ebe Sarapuu replied that according to the opinion of Philip Morris, a representative of the Estonian Division, the ban on flavours in Estonia would violate European Union legislation. Maris Jesse added that the position of the Ministry's legal advisers is that the ban on flavours can be applied, but that the notification of such a technical regulation should be sent to the European Commission in advance. There were other questions, but Monika Haukamm expressed the opinion that in the current situation the focus should be on the main objective of the draft and other regulations should be resolved within the framework of the new draft, following good legislative practice, involving various stakeholders and stakeholders. So far, involvement has been rather random and chaotic. Mr Põldaru said that he supported Ms Haukanõmme's proposal to continue the debate on the draft, focusing on the main objective of the draft. Jüri Jaanson also felt that the original version of the draft should be maintained. The Commission continued to vote on the amendments. Both the three proposals of the Ministry of Social Affairs and, as I said at the beginning, the 15 proposals submitted by members of the Riigikogu were voted on. In the amendments, you found support for them in the explanatory memorandum to the draft, Amendment 6, which has been fully taken into account and made by the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as Amendment 9, which was written by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Amendments 14 to Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aegi, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Musta and Jüri Saare were also supported. The Commission also addressed our Legal and Analytical Department for advice, because in fact the amendments that were tabled by members of the Riigikogu are treated as a whole, as a package. The Legal and Analytical Department sent us a written reply explaining the question that, if this proposal is now supported, will it make the future law difficult to interpret if people read it later. One question was what the analysis department would see when the amendment was voted on in the draft and this wording would apply. Our Legal and Analytical Department said that they do not see any particular substantive problems in taking account of the amendment, as the nature of the content of § 4 does not change. However, it was explained that it was possible to vote on the proposals either in the Commission if re-voted, or in the large hall already on a proposal from the Commission pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Law on Rules of Procedure. At the same time, it was pointed out that the first solution seems reasonable, the small problem does not deserve to be seen before the House, which may lead to confusion. But nothing will happen if Amendment 14 remains that way. Amendment 17 was also supported. This is presented by the Ministry of Social Affairs and was fully taken into account in the Committee on Social Affairs. The Committee on Social Affairs also decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda today (consensus), to propose that the second reading be closed (consensus) and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to third reading by 20 February (consensus) and then to hold a final vote. Those were the decisions of 28 January. We also met on February 11th. Monika Haukanõm, Igor Kravtšenko, Liina Kersna, Tarmo Kruusimäe (alternate for Maire Aunaste), Toomas Vitsut (altern for Marika Tuus-Laul), Maris Lauri, Raivo Põldaru and Viktor Vassiliev took part. In the meantime, there was no official named Triinu Star, and the members of the committee had come up with a number of questions that we had also asked the Deputy Chancellor. Mrs Triinu Täht had been to Ellex Raidla's proposal and to explain the issue of heated tobacco products in the Committee on European Union Affairs, and now our committee members had the opportunity to ask him questions. And Triinu Täht explained that the main, most important objective of the draft is to transpose Articles 15 and 16 of the Directive, under which the pan-European system for the detection and monitoring of tobacco products will be implemented as of 20 May 2019. This is a rather harsh deadline for all Member States, and it is difficult in Estonia that elections to the Riigikogu are coming up. As a representative of the Ministry, he added that issues relating to heated tobacco products have been discussed at length in the Committee on European Union Affairs and that it is now considered that this amendment could be made. Unfortunately, there was a misunderstanding at the Ministry about the use of flavourings and Triinu Tär stressed once again that the Ministry's priority was to transpose Articles 15 and 16 of the Directive. Tarmo Kruusimäe asked why the Ministry changed its position and which document was used as a basis for this decision. The Triinu Star replied that the first threat was that the bill would not be processed in time. He confirmed that the Ministry of Social Affairs was not opposed to regulation in the area of heated products and that it was agreed to be discussed, but not right now. The Committee on Social Affairs has taken a consensual decision to approve the draft second reading procedural documents. Now I have given you an overview of what took place in the three meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs. It was a very brief review, I suggest you heartily read the protocols, there are many questions, many answers, different opinions. Unfortunately, time is pressing, I have less than two minutes left to report, otherwise we could talk about it for a long time. However, this may be enough for an overview, and the explanatory memorandum is also very comprehensive in writing all the amendments and the results of the vote. So that's a short summary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U149	At least one question comes from the floor. Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! On 23 January, seven members of the Riigikogu tabled ten interrelated amendments and they concerned heated tobacco products. These are, without any doubt, integrated improvements in content. Given the logic and also the law of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, these amendments should have been voted together and treated as one amendment. For reasons unknown, the Social Affairs Committee did not go that way. I listened to you very carefully, but I did not receive an answer from your speech to the question why so. Since the vote was one by one, there was a very peculiar situation where nine out of ten amendments were not supported, but a proposal was supported, which essentially means that the Commission actually supported all these amendments. Do you now consider it right that the other nine proposals will also be taken into account in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U151	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Unfortunately, we could not discuss it and vote on it in a complex way, because several of the initiators' amendments were not correct. For example, Amendment 2 sought to repeal Paragraph 81 (2) (5) of the Tobacco Act. There's no such article in the law. We had to vote on these proposals one at a time, because not all were presented correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U152	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! If we look closely, we can see that there is a pretty big difference between the lists of proposers. The lists are not exactly the same. Yes, the computer devil had made § 81 § 81, but the explanation was what was meant. But here's my question. If six of the applicants overlap, but one does not, then on what basis did you decide to merge all the proposals into one major complex? What makes that decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U153	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U154	I didn't quite get it now, I'm sorry, Honourable Asker! What are the names of the authors of these amendments? These proposals have been tabled in a collegial manner and, for all, my question has been recorded in the minutes, which I tabled after the vote: do anyone have any complaints about the vote? No claims were made in the Committee on Social Affairs. None! This was not done by any alternate or principal member. Everyone agreed that this was the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U155	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have repeatedly pointed out, and rightly so, that the transposition of the two points of the directive is very important. Here's my question about heated tobacco products. Will the transposition of these products into our code not come from the directive? If we don't take over that part, will we be at risk of being fined?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U157	Thank you for your question. This matter is both recorded and discussed in the Commission. The transposition of the two Directives, Nos 15 and 16, was initiated late, only on 10 December 2018. They concern the detection of salasi cigarettes and the labelling of cigarettes. Indeed, if they are not taken over in time, we will be faced with a fine, as stated in the explanatory memorandum and in the minutes. However, we will soon have elections to the Riigikogu. When we came to the first reading, we expressed our wish, as well as after the amendments have been received, that it would make sense to move forward with the initial option on the two directives, which are less divided. We referred to the Ministry of Social Affairs as the Social Affairs Committee and we also explained to the European Union Affairs Committee that other issues, i.e. these heated tobacco products, are not as fast as the two transpositions, No 15 and No 16. Before the first reading, the Commission discussed this issue very unanimously on several occasions. We also discussed the appeal to the Committee on European Union Affairs. The Committee on European Union Affairs also notes in its minutes that these articles are not directly related to the subject addressed to them by Mr Raidla. This issue is not directly related to these directives, but there could be an open debate on it in the Ministry of Social Affairs. Maybe we should really change the law. Our letter to the Ministry of Social Affairs also included a proposal for the Ministry to start this discussion and, if necessary, to come to the Riigikogu with a new draft. As far as the European Union Affairs Committee is concerned, I quote Mr Vitsut: 'Since there is currently a draft law 775 on tobacco law in the Riigikogu proceedings, the law firm has again addressed the European Union Affairs Committee and made proposals to amend the law. It should be noted that the original purpose of the 775 SE is not directly related to the proposals made by the law firm, but the law that is being amended is the same. ' As a result, we turned to the Ministry of Social Affairs for the sake of a verbatim report, asking for the law to be retabled in order to discuss the subject calmly with various interest groups and also to allow the use of heated tobacco products in Estonia. Then there will be no problem that this is allowed in Latvia, for example, but not in Estonia. So that was the procedure in the Commission. We have a letter that we have addressed to the Minister for Health and Labour: 'At the same time, the members of the committee expressed the opinion that, as heated tobacco products are circulating in our neighbouring countries, the issue must be dealt with further, so we are calling on you to discuss very seriously the subject of a letter from the European Union Affairs Committee, which was discussed by Mr Raidla's law firm, and, if necessary, to initiate a bill involving all stakeholders. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U158	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U159	Thank you. I did not take part in the Commission meeting and therefore, when assessing these arguments, I rely primarily on what you are talking about. I understand that you have almost a benevolent attitude to the amendments tabled by this group of people, but you do not know whether they will be discussed in the Commission or in the large Chamber, I think, whether we will vote on them or not. Did you find that the fine proposals, but in the Commission, it is as if they cannot be discussed, let the great hall discuss, but still do not vote? Help me figure this out! Otherwise, as with one previous amendment, it happens that in the meantime we have to take a break and ask what we are voting on, how we are voting and why we are not voting on some things.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U160	Thank you very much, Lord Black. The Social Affairs Committee voted on all the amendments at the meeting of the committee through absolutely everything that the members of the Riigikogu had tabled. There is always an opportunity in the big Chamber for both the initiators and the political groups to call for a vote, and that certainly can be done. I report here what happened in the Commission. Whether my attitude is benevolent or malicious, supportive or not, will be expressed by voting when we vote on these proposals today. That's definitely what we're gonna do, and then I'm gonna give you my attitude. But I don't have to share my attitude towards heated tobacco products and e-cigarettes right now in this remote control. I mean my personal attitude. However, we did not have such discussions in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U161	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U162	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! I'm also asking about heated tobacco products. Am I right to understand that the Ministry of Social Affairs recommends and wants the European Union directive to be partially transposed: surely Articles 15 and 16 will be transposed? And the discussions on heated tobacco products are just underway and will someday be decided?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U163	Thank you for your question. I can say that the Commission's Social Ministry's position was reached at the beginning, which supported heated tobacco products and amendments concerning them. This position changed after clarification and coordination. I would like to reiterate the position that was explained to us in the Committee on Social Affairs on 29 January, but it is expected to be the 29th. And this is the position. When I announced that Philip Morris Eesti OÜ and Japan Tobacco International had sent their additional opinions on the draft after the meeting of the Social Committee, Maris Jesse noted that the Ministry of Social Affairs had examined the submitted opinions and once again discussed the issue of heated tobacco products. They have decided that, as there are many other questions, differences of opinion, loose ends, the recommendation in the letter sent by the Committee on Social Affairs must be followed. We have already found a complete consensus in the run-up to the first reading, a total consensus, no party or any other disagreement! That this issue should be opened at a later date. As a matter of urgency, Articles 15 and 16 of the Directive should be transposed into Estonian law. So, yeah, you got it right. The first debate in the Committee on Social Affairs on 28 January and in the first report the position of the Ministry was supportive. By 29 January we had heard various explanations. I repeat that Triinu Täht, who was a rapporteur for both the discussion of the Committee on Social Affairs before the first reading and the Committee on European Union Affairs, also took part in the Commission's last debate. And he has said that it is written in the minutes that the Ministry has been discussing issues relating to heated tobacco products at length in the Committee on European Union Affairs and, consequently, it was considered that such a change could be made. Unfortunately, however, there were disagreements about the use of flavourings in the Ministry. He stressed that the Ministry's priority was to transpose Articles 15 and 16 of the Directive. The Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry also reasoned and explained their position. The Protocol states that the Ministry supports equal treatment in the case of different tobacco products, i.e. the non-use of flavours. The introduction of a specific regulation on heated tobacco products cannot therefore be supported until the subject has been thoroughly analysed and the technical regulation has been notified to the European Commission. In other words, if, according to the current law, the use of flavourings for e-cigarettes was not allowed, but would have been permitted for heated products when transposing this directive, these points would have been contradictory.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U164	Please, Vilja Thomas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U165	Thank you. Good Helmen! I note that sometimes you mess things up because you're talking about Directives 15 and 16. We are still talking about the European Union Directive for 2014 and its Articles 15 and 16. We have already adopted this directive a few times. My question is actually more general and concerns the same fragrances which, in the meantime, have banned the Riigikogu from taking a decision. We have prohibited the use of flavourings on cigarettes, which, I say, is actually contrary to the same European Union Tobacco Directive. It is not possible to prohibit things that are prohibited by the directive. This, in my opinion, is a completely absurd situation. And now you want to ban it again. I will ask whether the Commission has seen this previous notification to the European Commission, with which the Ministry announced that we are making an exception for flavourings when transposing the Tobacco Directive.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U166	There were several questions. First of all, thank you for the correction. Indeed, I must have had a glitch in my tongue. We are, of course, talking about transposing Articles 15 and 16 of the Tobacco Directive into Estonian law, but this was obviously a mistake that everyone could understand; perhaps this is not a key issue. The fact that the Riigikogu had once voted and adopted a ban on e-cigarettes was no more talk. This was explained only by the author of the amendment, who would also like to amend this provision. This amendment would have lifted the ban on the use of flavourings. But I can't judge a decision that the great hall has already passed as a law. I am talking about what was now in the debate in the Commission. Of course, I remember to note this, leaning slightly beyond the subject of this debate, that yes, indeed, the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with other ministries, announced this change that Estonia prohibits the flavouring of e-cigarettes. And there was an answer to that announcement. First of all, two countries again, I would say that two countries ♪ wanted further clarification, and this delayed the end of the procedure three months later. There is a deadline of three months. However, this was not more in the debate on this draft in the Commission than only when discussing the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U167	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! So how are we supposed to behave today? Is the large hall even competent to decide, or do we have to rely on the assessments of officials and the Commission, or can the large hall decide for itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U168	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U169	Thank you very much for this question. The question put in exactly that way was not discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs. But I am absolutely certain that 101 of the best sons and daughters of Estonia elected to the Riigikogu can think with their heads. I'm sure we'll see it in the vote that's about to begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U170	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions. In the old days, it was somewhat easier, the man set the smoke on fire, and now it's possible to heat it up. But now we're officially negotiating. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U171	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I do not want to focus so much on the substantive issues of the draft. This is also because I have no contact with smoking. I've never smoked, and I'm proud of it, and I hope that the time when I might start smoking is very, very far away. However, as far as the substance of the draft is concerned, it seems unprecedented for me to ignore the possible fine as a direct consequence of the Tobacco Directive, if not a compulsory one. I'm talking about hot tobacco. As the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee admitted, this fine may threaten us. In this sense, it is strange to miss this topic in a lukewarm way, so, let's see when, where, and how. And I also had my ear, or at least I didn't notice that the Minister had changed his position. At the beginning of his speech, the chairman of the committee referred to a ministerial letter in which the Minister supported the inclusion of heated tobacco products in this draft. Soon, however, the views of several officials differed from what the Minister had said. But the real purpose of my speech is what I have learned from the university, namely law. I'm still trying to justify my diploma here at the last minute. My concern is that it seems to me that I do not mean here the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, in fact, trying to ignore the procedural rules by following the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. It is appropriate not to even say that it is mandatory to recall the legendary attorney-at-law Simon Levin, who has once said this: "Beloved friends! Material law, it's handicraft, but the procedure, that's one of the fine arts. ' I think these are real mottos, mottos for all of us. However, I must admit this time that the Commission has actually acted and used procedural rules in reverse. And what is it? I actually already referred to that. On 23 January, seven members of the Riigikogu tabled ten, I would like to stress, interlinked amendments. When we read paragraphs 1 and 2 of § 102 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, we see that amendments tabled by one of the authors, which are essentially related to one another, must be included in the list of amendments and the Commission's decision should be included in the amendments. In order to be able to comply with this requirement, the proposals tabled by one of the authors and integrated with one another must also be considered as one amendment when discussing amendments by the commission. In this case, I believe that the Committee on Social Affairs has broken these procedural rules by voting one by one on these ten amendments. And, unfortunately, one of the ten amendments went through, perhaps found the support of the Commission, while this one proposal has not gone through the slightest meaning without these nine. In fact, the procedural rules state that, in the case of integrated amendments, it is not possible to include only one or one of the integrated proposals in the text of the draft. It's possible all or none. The Riigikogu cannot, of course, take the role of the Social Affairs Committee and undo what has happened. In view of the current practice of the Riigikogu, the Board of the Riigikogu has not intervened in the work of the committee either. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U172	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U173	The Board of the Riigikogu has not intervened in the work of the committees, because it is a rather cumbersome and major challenge. In my view, there is no other way to resolve these procedural violations than to support Amendments 1, 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15 and 16. By supporting these proposals, the integration of the proposals submitted by the seven members of the Riigikogu will also be restored, as our own law on domestic and operational procedures provides. Perhaps it will be possible to correct these errors in this Chamber today. This could be done all the more because, as we have heard many times, the Minister does not actually have a substantive objection to add at least heated tobacco products to this draft. And at the very end of the day, a very personal line. My father, who is 82 years old, has been smoking almost his whole life, and I've been really worried about him. He's mostly pulling that regular cigarette that's burning, and since his control of himself isn't the most brilliant, I'm really worried. It can end very badly for him and for the place where he lives. And, oh, unfortunate or lucky, I've managed to put an e-cigarette on my father's head. A colleague helped me make recommendations to my father in order to make him enjoy it. And I say that I am sincerely happy that the risk of fire from smoking common tobacco has disappeared thanks to e-cigarette. And a heated tobacco product is one possible alternative to e-cigarette, which may not be suitable for everyone. I am far from saying that e-cigarette or heated tobacco products are healthy. They're unhealthy, but they're probably healthier than regular cigarettes. And in view of the number of fires that have been caused by people who have smoked in bed, it must be acknowledged that if they had had the chance to smoke an e-cigarette, there would perhaps have been no fire accident and many people would still live on this earth. Those were my comments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U174	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U175	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't smoke, and I don't have any personal interest in it. I'm not going to be an importer or importer of one or the other, either, but the problem of e-cigarette and especially heated tobacco products has come with me. The students of Tartu have made powerful statements and said at all that an initiative should be taken to turn Tartu into a smoke-free city. They have attended one, two, and three universities, and they provide very sympathetic examples of how one or the other city has already arrived there. The second thing that connects with this bill is that the City Council of Tartu discussed the conservation of the environment and the harmful effects of benzopyrene. Peeter Laurson, the outstanding representative of the Fatherland, spoke as a chemist about how much benzopyrene comes from a furnace in a part of the city of Karlova and how much from a single cigarette. He suggested that perhaps he would switch to heated cigarettes and still keep Karlova's characteristics of his oven heating. The students were pretty mean, but we're used to talking about things in an honest and sharp way. One of the young people asked whether the Riigikogu was still driving in the carriage and they were already on the train. But it wasn't the meanest. What was even meaner was that they asked if we would have one more reason to go to Latvia to buy something, because Latvia can. I didn't know how to answer all those questions. I said I would promise you that I would tell my colleagues about their wishes. Actually, there's more letters. There are many neighbors protesting against smoking on the balcony. The students also asked if they could initiate a council bill in Tartu so that we would make restrictions on those who smoke traditional tobacco. I said we can't go against the law. In the Riigikogu, things need to be settled first. And then the words were read to me again. I remembered that a few days ago I saw an amateur movie from a bus station in Tartu. It was made 50 years ago. You know, I saw it was dirty, people came and two people spit on the floor in one minute, and nothing happened. Turns out that was the case back then. If I tell the kids these days that they spit on the floor, they won't believe it. If we go on with the subject of a heated cigarette, in ten years' time, probably no one will believe that we had so much soot-topped. I think we should get rid of this ugly habit. Do you think someone will say thank you if we still push through to allow heated cigarettes? Thanks for not saying no. But what's more important is that after ten years, you don't say that you were still fools, you couldn't stop a stupid health - damaging habit. The Rescue Board is saying, as we just talked about, it's still on top of it. I promised that I would not repeat what my good colleague, Kivimägi, has already said and will not read all these numbers from one to three and 16, but I propose: support them!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U176	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will probably no longer surprise you from this chair: I will then be the third speaker who does not smoke, but yet the subject is close to my heart. And close to heart, because the custom tends to be a situation in which MEPs reach the stage of proceeding on the draft that has been initiated, where they say that they must be examined and analysed, and, good ambassadors, if you for God's sake should adopt this draft, we will consider amending or repealing this law on the initiative of the Ministry. Look, this is not good practice! There is no doubt that there is a need to study and analyse, because we certainly do not want to live in a country where emotion rules the arguments over. But inevitably, listening to the Commission's presentation as well, it is the feeling that we have come to a point where there are no more arguments, there is an emotion and, in fact, there is an attempt to ridicule or suppress this initiative. Indeed, I am also among the six members of the Riigikogu who, on 23 January, tabled 10 amendments to amend draft 775 which wished to complement the draft with the regulation on heated tobacco products. As has already been said today, there is no doubt that these ten proposals were essentially linked within the meaning of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. The same parties are also proposed by all ten proposals. According to the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the commission must prepare a list of amendments to the draft for the second reading. Paragraph 102 (2) of the Law states that those proposals, which are the same as the author and which are essentially related to each other, are included in the list of amendments in a single proposal. This means, in fact, that if the same people have tabled several substantively related amendments, all these proposals will be regarded as a single whole amendment, which will also be voted as a single proposal. As I have already mentioned, the amendments tabled on 23 January concerning heated tobacco products meet the requirements of the same author and the substantive connection. For some reason, however, the Steering Committee has included these proposals on the list of amendments, one by one, and one through other proposals on the draft. Moreover, the fact that the Social Affairs Committee also voted on the individual points of the proposal in question separately is confusing. In fact, point 8 of our proposal received the approval of the Committee on Social Affairs and was voted on in the draft. In the list of amendments, this is included in our item 8 under No 14. What is important is the fact that all the points in the proposal for heated tobacco products received at least two votes in favour, in practice at least three votes in favour, in the Committee on Social Affairs. As a result, I can call for a vote on the proposals on heated tobacco products at the second reading in plenary. It would be right to demand that all ten proposals be voted in a single package, that is, together, unfortunately this practice does not coincide with the current practice of the Riigikogu, and I am therefore forced to follow procedural errors or mistakes made in the Committee on Social Affairs and established practice of the Riigikogu and demand that all ten proposals be voted separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U178	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will then start as has been the tradition in all speeches today. Hi, I'm Madis, I'm a former smoker, I've been using e-cigarette for four years now, and my physical form and quality of life, as well as the quality of life of people living under one roof with me, have significantly improved. But actually, I'm confused, and for me to be amazed, it takes quite a lot. The submission of amendments is the right of members of the Riigikogu and the basis for democratic decision-making. Even the President of the Commission is not in a position to recommend that amendments be rejected by arguments which are not related, just as if these amendments would prevent the adoption of the draft. These topics are actually very interrelated and a surprise-surprise! They support the main objective of final transposition of the Tobacco Directive. I have been in this Riigikogu in many debates on the tobacco law and I do not understand what is happening. We are in a situation where officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs consistently say that, oh, but we do not know, we do not have any research in Estonia. They ignore the fact that some 500 studies have been carried out on this subject in other parts of the world. All drafts concerning alternative tobacco products are submitted by the Social Ministry's officials on a hunch basis. We believe that these alternative tobacco products are still as dangerous as real cigarettes. At the same time, it is confirmed that no studies have been carried out. I don't know what's going on! Estonia is an innovative e-state, but innovation is not wanted in this area. Each draft, which has been pending during its membership, has made the use of alternative tobacco products increasingly difficult and more difficult than the consumption of conventional cigarettes. Alternative tobacco products are already more expensive than regular cigarettes. Alternative tobacco products are more difficult to access than regular cigarettes. You can buy regular cigarettes from any burger stand, station, grocery store, anywhere. Why do we still make quitting more difficult than it already is? I've tried to quit smoking about ten times, with e-cigarette it worked for the first time. The aim of Estonian tobacco policy may be very beautiful on paper, but the ways in which it is being tried are not beautiful. Overregulation of alternative tobacco products compared to conventional cigarettes or non-regulating of heated tobacco products is a barrier to the market. This is a restriction of fair competition. This is a continuing encouragement of the consumption of regular cigarettes. This is the message we say: 'Smoker, smoke, smoke your regular cigarette, because it's easier, cheaper, more accessible! ' And now: if we were dealing with the area of drama, the definition of the next genre would be tragedy, but unfortunately it is political reality. In particular, on 28 January this year, the Minister of Health and Labour sent a letter to the Social Affairs Committee, which states in the first sentence of point 4, that in addition to the above, the Ministry of Social Affairs confirms that it supports the amendment tabled by seven members of the Riigikogu (Kruusimäe, Milling, Aeg, Metsoja, Saar, Black, Volmer) concerning the Amendment to the Tobacco Act and the Amendment to the Act amending the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act 775 supplementing the regulation of novel tobacco products with heated tobacco products, and its inclusion in draft 775. This letter is also available on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U180	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U181	At the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 28 January, the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs confirmed that the Ministry supported the proposals. And then it got exciting. The Chancellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs changed his mind within 24 hours and presented this change of mind at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 29 January as a change of position of the Ministry of Social Affairs. On some mysterious point, the Chairwoman of the Committee on Social Affairs accepted this, despite the fact that the Minister had not sent a new letter to the Committee on Social Affairs where he would have disproved his position. We can still argue and discuss how much alternative tobacco products are less harmful to health than regular cigarettes. We may continue to take into account 500 studies carried out in the world, but there is one thing we cannot argue about. This fact was also referred to today, and I will repeat it again. As a volunteer savior, I've put out a lot of fires caused by reckless smoking. I've carried the body of a dead man out of the house in a black bag myself. I have not attended any of the fires caused by the alternative tobacco product e-cigarette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U182	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U183	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! I'll pick up where Madis ended up. Thirty-six people went into the fire last year. We've calculated that there were more people, but in 36 cases, it was because of smoking in bed. If the price of one human life is EUR 1 million, we have gotten into pants with EUR 36 million. At the same time, when we collect tobacco excise, we have received 99% of the sales of ordinary cigarettes. One thing we have not transposed the directive, it cannot be obtained in Estonia, and the other one we have made so expensive that it is cheaper to buy from other countries. When I once asked the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs about the situation with the nasalis, he said that there were no problems in Estonia because it was forbidden. The 17000 daily users are, however, not affected! However, I want to tell you a little bit about the procedural aspect, about the confusion that you may understand, but the chairwoman of the Commission did not understand. Seven members of the Riigikogu submitted their amendments. The difference is that one list includes Raivo Aeg, the other list includes the different people of Märt Sults. This proposal, which included the signature of Raivo Aegis, concerned heated tobacco products, and Mr Sults joined the proposal concerning e-cigarette. And, oh, the devil, paragraph 81 had turned the computer into 81. That's a good point! But we in the Commission were able to discuss it, because we understood which section we actually dealt with. I think the big hall is qualified today. Let us think about passive smokers once the tobacco law has been opened! We're playing Sherlock Holmes here and spying on cigarette packs, but we could also take a small step for ourselves, but a big step for passive smokers, a big step for those people who deserve to live. Thanks to Thomas, who said it out loud, I can say one thing too. I've done something good in this life: I've been able to save somebody. And I think today you can all save other people. When I've told you about these problems, many have said that today, I don't think they're saying that, you know, Tarmo, we don't smoke, we don't understand that. And I always said, you know, colleagues, I don't beat up my wife and kids every night, but I understand that domestic violence is a problem. More empathy! I see that our minister has written: the board of the honourable Riigikogu, please interrupt the second reading of the Bill amending the Tobacco Act and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act 775 in case proposals that were not supported by the Social Affairs Committee are found in the Riigikogu's plenary. Oh, my God! So we're a rubber stamp now! Now that's unbelievable to me! I don't know... Did I hear correctly that they want a change of minister? But let's leave it. We give passive smokers and people who want to quit smoking! Let's give them an opportunity to use alternative tobacco! We don't tell drug addicts to quit! We're gonna give them methadone treatment. But to smokers, we say, "Just leave it! I, Tarmo, an ex-smoker, for four years on e-smokers, say: I couldn't have done that if it hadn't been for e-smokers. For four years, my family, my coworkers here and other companies have been happy. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U184	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U185	Honourable Vice President! Good members of the Riigikogu! Tarmo, for the old acquaintance: I haven't heard such stupid talk in a long time. Don't be mad, nothing personal, rock 'n' roll, and everything else in it stays! But in terms of content, I understand so much that smoking is decreasing in the world and tobacco companies are looking for substitutes for smokers and a substitute for themselves. In that sense, they do a good job. And it's nice to have law firms involved in lawmaking, too. But look, about the house and the procedure, I want to talk. I'll get you an example, good MP Kruusimäe. You will submit any bill on your own behalf. You have that right. Under this title, the Riigikogu will write a new draft that you do not like. It's perfectly normal for you to take it back. [[A voice from the hall.]] No, it's perfectly normal if you don't like it. Let the Riigikogu make its own new draft. It doesn't have to be Tarmo Kruusimäe's bill. And that is precisely why the Government of the Republic, like any other initiator, has the right to propose that the reading of the bill be interrupted. It must be a sacred right of initiator; it cannot be taken away from a member of the Riigikogu or from the Government of the Republic. However, as far as the unification of the amendments is concerned, I look Vilja in the eye. He will certainly remember major disputes when the opposition has fought that the Commission has put together amendments. Now, Mr Kivimägi, the ambassador, asks why the Commission did not put together amendments. Then present them together! It's so simple. One of the amendments is those of one of the ambassadors, the other a bit of that of the other group. Sometimes they brought it out nicely. Some are for electronic cigarettes, others for heated tobacco products. Well, then, made all the proposals for two groups together, it's easy to see! I have always fought to ensure that the Commission does not combine the amendments. The opposition is now fighting to bring together the amendments. If there is a wish to vote together in the next Riigikogu, they should be presented together. But the sacred right of the initiator of the bill is that there should be no amendment to the draft proposed under his name, which does not suit him in any way. And that is why he must have the right to propose that the reading of the bill be suspended.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U186	During the negotiation phase, there is the right to reply to those people whose name has sounded. Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U187	Thank you. Thank you, Eiki, for mentioning my name, I can answer now. I was not among the authors of these proposals, but, of course, this is one lesson in the fact that they could indeed have been tabled as one amendment. However, the fact that they are presented separately does not invalidate the Riigikogu's Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, which commands them to be treated as one amendment if the proposals are closely integrated. The second line concerns the same very surprising proposal that the government proposes to suspend the procedure for the draft and wants to withdraw it, so it is completely incomprehensible to me that the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee repeatedly stressed that the two articles of the directive must in any case be transposed. I understand that there's a whistle on it, and they say, "God with him, that we pay a fine, how much is demanded just for spite and a tantrum."
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U188	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U189	Thank you, good folklore, who mentioned my name! Sometimes the goal is more important. We might not have had a memorial of the victims of communism if Commissioner Kruusimäe had withdrawn his draft because the City Council of Tallinn had started to change it. I was smarter, I found it more important. If public health were more important to the Minister, he would not make such proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U190	The name of Vilja Toomas was also mentioned. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U191	Thank you. I have a completely pragmatic question. I do not see a minister in this Chamber who would like to withdraw his bill or any other representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I just want to know who's gonna have to cancel this bill or take it back.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U192	The President of the meeting has a digitally signed statement on what essentially coincides with what Mr Kruusimäe said. Helmen Hunter, let's continue the negotiations!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U193	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! For the sake of the stenogram, I just want to explain a few things so that people who are watching this debate do not start to fear that we are banning e-cigarettes with this bill. Anyone can continue to take e-cigarettes to their parents and grandparents so that the bed does not ignite. This is now possible and will continue to be possible. As the chairwoman of the Social Affairs Committee, I will report here what has happened in the Commission. Undoubtedly, if I wanted to be a different chairman or chairwoman of the Commission, I could have insisted that amendments which do not comply with good practice or formalisation would not be voted on. We decided that we would vote, no matter how they are presented. We expect us to understand what is meant by making proposals. I will give a simple example of one amendment. And by the way, I was saying all this, that first the ministry had a supportive position, so I didn't miss anything in this hall. The minutes shall be public. The amendments concern e-cigarettes in particular. Amendment 18: Amend § 16 (8) of the Act on Excise Duties. There is no such law! But we voted. Well, there was a mistake, we figured out what they were thinking, and we voted. Now a little bit of the votes. I've often heard here how almighty the Social Democrats have 14 seats. But now I hear that the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee pushed the ribbon, drove in. I will just give you an example, see for yourself the list of amendments. Amendment 2: repeal Section 81 (2) (5) of the Tobacco Act. Lead committee: not to be taken into account. Although not in favour, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling and Viktor Vassilyev voted against the proposal by six people: Monika Haukanõm, Helmen Kütt, Igor Kravchenko, Jüri Jaanson, Maris Lauri and Raivo Põldaru. It is not one party here; it is not even a coalition. Or, for example, Amendment 5 on heated tobacco products. There were three people in favour of this proposal: Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling and Viktor Vassilyev. Monika Haukanõm, Helmen Kütt, Igor Kravchenko and Raivo Põldaru were opposed. So to point out that the chairman of the committee has broken the rule of law, although the amendments have actually been tabled incorrectly, we have all voted. In the minutes, I will read out once again that I said before the vote that you will understand that the amendments have been tabled, as in the case of the whole: some concern heated tobacco products, others concern e-cigarettes, and take this into account in the vote, as we are going to vote on these points. After the vote, the chairman asked whether any of the members of the committee wished to challenge the result of the vote. The members of the Commission did not express their wish for this and then we took procedural decisions. We haven't had a rubber stamp on the Commission. The Social Affairs Committee has also come up today with a draft that was not supported by the Government of the Republic. In the Committee on Social Affairs, I am very grateful to the members of all political parties for this, to have a social and health policy and to vote on everyone according to their sense of conscience, understanding, learning ability and everything else, and to familiarise themselves with every controversial issue. In order not to be different from the previous speakers, I also say I don't smoke. But that's not why I have one opinion or another. And my opinion is expressed only by one vote in the Committee on Social Affairs. But I thank you very much for the recognition when you say I'm almighty! Mr. Kruusimäe, you will now have the opportunity to object if you have anything to say. I deliberately named your name. Once again, the Committee on Social Affairs voted on these proposals and the results of the vote are clearly visible. You can watch the members of the various political parties vote. And those proposals, which were indeed incorrectly drafted, we voted only in response to the performers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U194	There are no further requests to speak or to reply. I'm closing the negotiations. Eighteen amendments to the draft have been tabled. Let's go through them together. The first amendment was tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aegis, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Musta and Jüri Saare. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U195	I ask you to vote on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U196	That's what we do. Dear Riigikogu, we will begin the examination of the amendments. The first call gave the manager a longer one. Since we are probably going to have more votes on this point, you may realise that we will be working at an early pace, not at a two-minute break in the future. So I shall vote on the first amendment tabled by a group of members of the Riigikogu. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The decision of the commission was supported by 46 delegates, 13 against, 2 abstentions. The amendment was supported. [[In the diner.]] Maris Lauri, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U197	I wanted to point out that we voted on the amendment and not on the Commission's position. [[Someone's commenting.]] We opposed the Commission's position in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U198	Of course we voted on the amendment. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2. It is presented by members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Märt Sults, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 48), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 12 votes to two with two abstentions. Third amendment, performed by members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. I always read by name because the performers' names really don't match. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U199	I would like to ask you to vote on this too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U200	Please! I shall put to the vote Amendment 3. Please take a stand and vote. 45 Members voted in favour of the amendment, 12 against and 2 abstentions. The amendment was supported. The fourth amendment, tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please, Andres Metsoja!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U201	I also ask for the fourth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U202	I shall put the fourth amendment to the vote. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 44), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 10 votes to two with two abstentions. The amendment was supported. Fifth amendment, performed by members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U203	I would also like to ask for the fifth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U204	Let's vote! I shall put to the vote the fifth amendment tabled by a group of members of the Riigikogu. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and consider...... vote! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'm not a smoker either. There were 47 delegates in favour of the proposal, 10 against and 2 abstentions. Proposal No 5 was supported. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs. Decision of the Governing Commission: take full account. The seventh amendment was tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Märt Sults, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U205	Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U206	Let's vote. I shall put the seventh amendment to the vote. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 40 delegates, 10 against and 4 abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 8, performed by Riigikogu members Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Märt Sults, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U207	Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U208	We are ready for the vote. I shall put the eighth amendment to the vote. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was supported by 38 delegates, 10 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 8 was supported. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. Tenth amendment, performed by members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U209	Thank you. I ask you to vote on this!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U210	We'll do it in half a minute. Please vote on Amendment 10. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote! The proposal was supported by 41 delegates, 10 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 10 was supported. Amendment 11. It is presented by members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U211	I would also like to vote on Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U212	Let's vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 11. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was supported by 41 delegates, 10 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 11 was supported. Amendment 12, performed by members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U213	I would also like to ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U214	Let's vote now. I shall put to the vote Amendment 12. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please vote! The proposal was supported by 41 delegates, 10 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment 12 was supported. Amendment 13, performed by members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Märt Sults, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U215	Thank you. Please vote!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U216	In a few seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, before this vote, a small explanation. Since Amendments 12 and 13 are mutually exclusive and the proposal 12 received the support of the Riigikogu, Amendment 13 requires a higher number of votes to receive support under § 106 (4) of the Rules of Procedure Act than required by Amendment 12, which has just been voted. And now please vote! Eleven delegates voted in favour of this proposal, 16 against and 1 abstention. Consequently, this proposal was not supported. Amendment 14, performed by members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: take full account. Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U217	I ask you to vote this time too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U218	On the basis of your request, I shall vote on Amendment 14, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 36), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 9 votes to 2, with 2 abstentions. Amendment 14, which the commission wanted to take fully into account, has also received support in the large Chamber. Amendment 15, performed by members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U219	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U220	I shall put to the vote Amendment 15. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was supported by 40 delegates, 10 against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 15 of the draft was supported. Amendment 16, performed by members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Raivo Aeg, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Must and Jüri Saar. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U221	Thank you. I would also like to ask for a vote on Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U222	I shall put the 16th amendment to the vote. Decision of the Governing Commission: not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 41), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 9 votes to 1 with 1 abstention. Amendment 16 was supported. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and the lead committee has decided to take full account of it. Amendment 18 is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Madis Milling, Märt Sults, Andres Metsoja, Hardi Volmer, Aadu Black and Jüri Saare, and the decision of the commission is to disregard it. The proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The 775 amendments to the draft have thus been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. However, a digitally signed statement by Riina Sikkut, Minister for Health and Labour, has come to the President's table: please interrupt the second reading of the Bill amending the Tobacco Act and the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. The Riigikogu will take that into account. In the event of interruption, the deadline for submitting amendments shall be 10 working days, i.e. 27 February at 5.15 p.m. Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U223	Thank you, Mr President. We have a procedural question. Just in case, why don't you educate us? Should there not also be a government debate and a government decision in such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U224	We have a proposal signed by Riina Sikkut, which we are counting on. So this bill will be suspended. Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U225	Yeah, a procedural question. The draft is initiated by the Government of the Republic. The government will decide whether or not to initiate a bill. If he decides to initiate, he will also appoint a representative of the government, this is Riina Sikkut. The government has not taken a decision to withdraw the draft, but Riina Sikkut has the right to make proposals regarding procedural procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U226	In this case, perhaps, such a proposal does not have to be signed by the Prime Minister. Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U227	Thank you. I actually have a question. I also remember earlier precedents in which the Minister has asked for the draft to be withdrawn, but such a case is not well remembered, where the minister has asked to stop reading the draft after the Chamber has voted differently. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U228	We simply have procedures such that, first of all, there is a report on second reading, then there are questions, then there are negotiations, then we will examine all the amendments and finally we will take decisions. Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U229	I'm still asking for an explanation. I do not recall from my 12 years of experience any cases where the Minister would have proposed that the reading of the draft be interrupted. And I understand that now we will not be able to vote on it. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U230	Yes, if this is decided by the government currently represented by Minister Sikkut. The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U231	I also have a procedural question. You said the deadline for amendments was ten days. Does anyone have the right to propose a shorter deadline for proposed improvements?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U232	Such a proposal has been proposed by the Commission. Yes, it is possible for the Commission to propose a shorter deadline, but this is their initial decision. Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U233	I will continue this pleasant legal debate. In fact, § 107 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act allows the initiator to stop reading. However, if there is a competitive proposal by some political groups and, in the present case, a competitive proposal from the lead committee is to stop reading the draft second, and if, now, after a ministerial proposal, a group proposes to stop reading the draft second, is the large Chamber entitled to vote on the proposal made by the group?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U234	The initiator's proposal remains a precedent. And Minister Sikkut has already made his proposal. Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U235	I don't know, maybe you can refresh my memory: Have we ever had such precedents in the last three or four? I think it's very strange. We have a parliamentary state, we have a parliamentary procedure, and in the midst of this procedure, the executive power dictates to us the pace of this procedure, in a situation where we ourselves have had a different view. At least we should have the opportunity to vote on that. You are now saying that it is not possible to vote. My question is: are such precedents known about the last three-fourth Riigikogu membership?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U236	My career is even a little longer, but I don't remember that kind of case either. But if we had a Commission proposal that they withdraw the draft, we would not vote on it, would we? So let's probably go with that. Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U237	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This Riina Sikkut proposal would have sounded much more sincere if Riina Sikkut had sat in this Chamber, followed the course of the debate and how the vote was taken, and then made the proposal to stop reading. Because what he wanted to accomplish didn't work. But what did we hear today in this debate? Tarmo Kruusimäe already said that the paper is on your desk. So before voting on the amendments, Riina Sikkut wanted to influence the outcome of the vote, threatening: if you do not do as I have asked, I will withdraw this initiative. So he actually put much more at risk. In particular, we will not be able to transpose these articles of the directive, to which the lead manager referred, in due time. How do you comment on that? Could the Minister thus influence the minds of the members of the Riigikogu by voting on amendments? That paper was on your desk earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U238	Honourable colleague Palling! This could be regarded as influencing if the President had read it before the votes and before the proceedings began. It was on the manager's desk. This is a separate question of how the letter assigned to the management board of the Riigikogu has reached the members of the Riigikogu before it has been made public by the management board of the Riigikogu. But this is about what we were talking about. Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U239	Sometimes you can chew a star and you should chew a star. If I do the same § 107 in our Home and Working Procedures Act, I can see that it says that the Riigikogu interrupts the reading of the draft on the proposal of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, the lead commission or the initiator of the draft. The Chairman of the Riigikogu also pointed out that Riina Sikkut is the representative of the initiator of the draft, but the initiator of the draft is the Government of the Republic. And in the light of the logic that the Government of the Republic has been the initiator, it is as if the Government of the Republic could propose to cancel or withdraw the bill. Perhaps the board would need to take a short break and consult the Legal Department of the Riigikogu to find out whether the initiator of the draft is the representative of the initiator or the initiator of the Government of the Republic in corpore.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U240	In that respect, Hanno, you're certainly right that it's stellar chewing. We are based on the fact that the government has appointed Minister Sikkut as its representative and decision-maker. Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U241	Thank you, good vice chairman. Is there any way to get us, all of your co-workers, out of this difficult situation honestly so that we don't have to go home, face to shame, ears to lanta-lanta, because the executive power put the entire Riigikogu in place? Do we have any way of expressing our will?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U242	I think that, when we deal with this item on the agenda, we have expressed this will and, ultimately, the votes were quite impressive. Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U243	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You have just mentioned that if this letter from the Minister had been announced before the vote, it would be interpreted as influencing. We can look it up in the verbatim, but, as I recall, you said the same thing just before the vote. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U244	It has to be checked in the verbatim. Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U245	Mr President of the sitting! I would like to remind you that in the meantime the Chairman of the Riigikogu also attended the speech of the Riigikogu and explained the nature of our Home and Working Procedures Act, giving an example that if not done as the initiator wanted, he has the right to withdraw the draft. So at least Eiki Nestor knew that such a letter had arrived. And now I have a question: did the Riigikogu Board collectively discuss before processing this point what to do with a position that is already known before voting on amendments? You allowed us to go through all these proposals, and now the bill will simply be withdrawn. We spent a good hour and a half on this whole procedure, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U246	This proposal, signed by the Minister, appeared on the table of the President of the sitting just before I began chairing the sitting. Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U247	Thank you. I would point out that it is not just political choices here, it is also the transposition of the articles of the directive. And this particular lingering may have very painful and perhaps costly consequences for the Estonian state. We are in a situation where Minister Sikkut, who is certainly a very nice person, but who has not been a member of the Riigikogu, as far as I know, puts the entire parliament of the Republic of Estonia in a state of compulsion, stating what decisions we can and cannot make. I, too, find it constructive to suggest that the Bureau should meet and ask our Legal Department for advice on whether it is possible for Parliament to express its will by voting in such a situation. For God's sake, if someone's position falls short of an honest vote, it is understandable, but the fact that a minister who is not really very experienced in these matters dictates some new precedent to us is not reasonable in my opinion. All the more so when it's the first time, we're creating a new practice right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U248	We are likely to have reached a stage in this debate where positions are quite clearly drawn out. Against this background, the President of the sitting shall take a five-minute break. I see that the members of the Riigikogu's board are in the Chamber, so we can use this time for consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U249	Honourable Riigikogu! The Board of the Riigikogu takes this problem seriously, which is why you will understand that it will take a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U250	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the President took a five-minute break, but we extended it. And I told you why. As you know, the break can last up to half an hour. So we're going to reboot this timer, but not for half an hour. If necessary, you can take another half hour. Hopefully, that won't be necessary. Negotiating with the government and even with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U251	Honourable Riigikogu! All I have to say is that I'm gonna extend the break for another 30 minutes and wait for the Prime Minister's speech. [[In the diner.]] It's not really okay, but there's nothing to do. The board will otherwise find it difficult to reach agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U252	Honourable Riigikogu, I apologize! The board has done some serious work with its good assistants, but it cannot do this in order to organise internal procedures. We now have the information of the Minister appointed by the government to represent this bill. And for the board to all agree, we hope that the Prime Minister will confirm this with his phone call. But the precedents. Why else would I invite you here? This is a passage from the Riigikogu verbatim. On 13 June 2001, Bill 737 was dealt with. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic, a representative of the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu was a minister named Eiki Nestor. A place in a verbatim that's been found. People worked hard, Jurgen, so you'd find out. After voting on the amendments, the minister went to the stand at that time, so that you would know, the representative of the initiator of the draft was always in the Chamber when the second reading was in the Chamber and said: 'Dear Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! Following the vote on the draft proposal, the initiator of the draft act will make a proposal for an amendment which will enable all mandatory pension funds to make the money that is at their heart and you will all have to pay for it in the future, interrupt the reading of the draft proposal. ' Chairman: 'Thank you! Under the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the initiator has the right to propose to interrupt the debate at any stage. Thus, the debate on the 737 draft law has been interrupted. ' So. I read you a passage from the verbatim. The government's regulation talks about the withdrawal of the bill, it doesn't say a word about the abort. There are two ways to withdraw. Number one: the office decides to withdraw the bill. Second way: the minister representing the draft will propose to the Riigikogu, with the agreement of the Prime Minister, to withdraw the draft. No one has proposed to withdraw. You notice? No one has made such a proposal! It would be easy for us to use the same analogy if we knew what the members of the government were talking to each other. So far, I've received one piece of information, so let's hope the Prime Minister confirms it, and then I can make you a proposal. Jürgen, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U253	On behalf of the political group, I am speaking now. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Thank you, Mr. Nestor, for allowing me in line. Very clearly, there is one important element here that will break this precedent. In fact, if the minister is not in the hall, as he used to be, he does not know what we are talking about. Such remotely paralyzing Parliament is not really appropriate. Since he's not in the hall, I don't think you can draw a real parallel. And it's not enough that we've been sitting here empty for an hour until they do. Let's move on without this government, unless we can take him down.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U254	The thing is, I have to admit to you that the Bureau receives proposals where the completion of the second reading is linked to the results of the vote in the Chamber at all times. They are mainly made by committees, that is perfectly understandable. In this sense, the letter from the Minister is no different from the letters from the committees. When we look at the Home and Working Procedures Act, we see that one paragraph lists all those on whose proposal... Please listen! One paragraph of the Rules of Procedure Act states exactly who has the right to interrupt reading the draft without a vote. They are all there together: the Commission, the initiator of the draft, etc. So there's nothing out of the ordinary here. And our Rules of Procedure do not require the Minister to be in the Chamber when there is a second reading of the draft. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't agree with the procedure we've been doing here. Let's start from the back. You just said, good chairman, that the government has a chance to withdraw the bill. Only take it back with the Prime Minister's consent or how they decide. There's no way the government can stop reading the bill. That's one.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U256	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U257	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U258	Then I repeat: I'm sorry if I was wrong! And once again, I'm sorry if anyone didn't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U259	But I'm not finished yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U260	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U261	Okay. And secondly, what took place in order to influence the free will of the ambassador by the Minister is not an easy precedent either. We know that this is an important draft for the Republic of Estonia. This is a transposition of the directive, which is subject to a time limit, which may be followed by a penalty. I have to choose between two things now. Do I want these amendments to pass? At the same time, the minister threatens me that if I do not vote for them, he will withdraw the bill. He puts a member of the Riigikogu in a position where I have to start thinking about whether or not I am voting in favour of this directive being adopted. So, in fact, this is a direct influence, and it all took place before the vote. To my question, who comes and reports the government's position, Enn Eesmaa replied that there was a digital signature from the minister on his desk that he would propose to stop reading if these proposals did not work out. This was all before the vote. And this is a precedent that I disagree with after we have built up parliamentary democracy for 27 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U262	I'll get it. First of all, in my humble opinion, the honourable ambassador was deeply mistaken. There are two different things. One is the withdrawal of the draft and the other is the suspension of the reading of the draft. Stopping reading is not a withdrawal. Those are two different things. The rule of the Government of the Republic only talks about readmission. The rule of the Government of the Republic does not mention that the minister appointed by it must come here to represent the bill in the event of an interruption. The Bureau adopted... [[The fruit of Thomas says something out of place.]] Listen, good man, keep me going! The Home and Rules of Procedure Act speaks of... Where's the paragraph? I had it under my hand somewhere, and I can say the section number, too. § 107 (1) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act: 'The Riigikogu interrupts the second reading of the draft on the proposal of the Board of the Riigikogu, the lead commission or the initiator of the draft law without voting. The corresponding political group proposal shall be put to the vote. ' How the government stops reading its right of initiative is not a matter for the Riigikogu. We follow the law. This is not a Riigikogu matter. We found in the board that it would be very nice if the government were to use the section on the recall rule. Now we want to know if the government did. I'm waiting for the call. [[The fruit of Thomas says something out of place.]] Yeah, yeah. The Board of the Riigikogu wants to be precise and correct. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U263	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! This last sentence was crucial: the Board of the Riigikogu wants to be precise and correct. The government's regulation is, in this case, ridiculous, or not relevant, because the government organises its work, Parliament organises its work. Parliament's work is governed by its Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure. Indeed, in the Home and Working Procedures Act, as you rightly pointed out, § 107 says that the initiator has the right to do so. The same Law on Home and Working Procedures deals with three concepts: the originator, the originator's representative and the performer. These are the concepts which the Home and Working Procedures Act considered necessary to lay down. Consequently, the Government, as the initiator of the draft law, would indeed need a decision in corpore in order to implement the termination of a single draft within the meaning of § 107. Just in case, in the interests of the verbatim, I ask the Bureau: is it true that the digital signature of the minister's proposal bears the digital signature stamp at a time of about half past two or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U264	They're about to find it. But I don't see any real significance in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U265	It is important that the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu provide that the proposal for interruption can be decided upon after voting on the amendments. In fact, the Minister passed on his wish to interrupt without knowing what Parliament would decide. My question to the board is: is this paper conditional? And would the board have taken this paper and put it in the wolf?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U266	The question is understandable. To make it clear, I'm going to read this letter. The same type of letter shall be sent to the Bureau by the committees when they make a similar proposal. 'Please interrupt the second reading of the draft 'Law amending the Law on tobacco and excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity' (775 SE) if the proposals that were not supported by the Social Committee are supported in the plenary session of the Riigikogu. 'It's here. What time? 13.24. What time he came here doesn't matter. And now, learned friend, I'd argue with you. Under the current Rules of Procedure, we do not need to know and our protocols do not reflect the position of the initiator on the amendments. Once upon a time, it doesn't have to be known. If interpreted like you, the initiator's position should be said by the entire government. We have one law in which the initiator considers the role to be: it is the State Budget Act. Which means that all amendments tabled in the Riigikogu should be examined collectively by the government. I do not consider it a reasonable interpretation that the government is going to do the work of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the important difference between today's ministerial letter and the proposal for conditional suspension of the committees is that we do not have a minister in the Chamber, the representatives of the committees are always in the Chamber. And that is the most astonishing point: why is the Minister not in the Chamber with such a proposal? You rightly said that the Minister did not have to be present at second reading, but if there is a intention to withdraw the draft or to interrupt the reading, it would be entirely correct if he were in the Chamber. It seems to me right now that the Bureau is doing something here that the Bureau shouldn't be dealing with. He is trying to ensure that the Government of the Republic urgently proposes the withdrawal of the bill. But we can calmly finish this second reading here right now. The Government of the Republic can withdraw the bill at any time before the third reading, at least I expect it. And in a case like this, there wouldn't be such a stagnation. We are now spending the working time of the Riigikogu completely unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U268	I totally agree with what you said, Mr Herkel, except for one thing. The Board of the Riigikogu has not made recommendations to the Government of the Republic that it could make with this draft. The minister has said he wants to stop reading. It's not up to us to decide, it's up to the government. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U269	Thank you, Mr President. Like you, I have had the opportunity to work both as an executive and as a legislator. And it is fundamentally unacceptable to me that in Estonia, which is a parliamentary democracy, a minister wishes to make Parliament a rubber stamp, not even of the government, but of a particular minister, literally. This is fundamentally unacceptable. I understand that we are currently waiting for the Prime Minister's speech, and I do not know when he will want to contact Parliament. I looked at the PM's public agenda, his last formal meeting today began four and a half hours ago. Do we really have to wait for the visits to apartment buildings where chocolate is to be distributed to end? What do 101 members of the Riigikogu expect now? I was also trying to determine why Riina Sikk wasn't here right now. Unfortunately, on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs it was not revealed the last prior notice there was the Urmas Kruuse minister since he was in office. Is it really not possible that, if Parliament so wishes, it will solve this issue with a vote, so that we are not here as one minister's rubber stamp and do not have to wait until Jüri Ratas stops going from door to door?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U270	The Prime Minister just called. I talked to you, answered the questions of honourable members of the Riigikogu. What the Prime Minister said, a good counselor sitting next to me knows. That's why two minutes of break so the board can meet. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U271	Dear Riigikogu, I'm sorry again! We have received a letter that we have read repeatedly here. This includes the request of the Minister of Labour and Health Riina Sikkut to interrupt the second reading of draft 775. I have before me the rule of the Government of the Republic § 22 (2). It's a bill to withdraw. If the Government of the Republic fails to form a position on the withdrawal of the Riigikogu from the procedure, the representative minister may, with the consent of the Prime Minister, withdraw the draft from the Riigikogu procedure. The Minister shall submit such information to the next meeting of the Government of the Republic. The Board of the Riigikogu found that if this applies to the so-called stricter procedure, which is the withdrawal of the draft, we can use it even if it is a suspension of the reading of the draft. That is not ultimately our question. The Prime Minister has told me on the phone that he, the Prime Minister, has agreed to interrupt the second reading of this bill. There is nothing left for the Bureau to decide here. The second reading of Bill 775 has been suspended. [[The excitement and the big buzzing in the hall.]] Awesome! The deadline for amendments is 27 February at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U272	We shall proceed to the sitting of the Riigikogu! Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Industrial Emissions Act and the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urve Palo will make a presentation on behalf of the Commission. [[Noise in the hall. Someone's commenting on the previous issue.]] You have a procedural question? I understand your question, I'll explain it again. There are things that the board must decide, and there are things where the board has nothing to decide. Paragraph 107 (1) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act states who has the right to interrupt. The Governing Board shall have the right to interrupt; the Governing Board shall not interrupt. (Someone disagrees with the floor: 'The administration does not decide here... ') I'll read it again. § 107 (1) 'The Riigikogu interrupts the second reading of the draft without voting on the proposal of the Board of the Riigikogu, the lead commission or the initiator of the draft. ' The board has not taken such a decision. You notice? The Governing Board has not taken such a decision. The Steering Committee has not taken such a decision. The initiator of the draft act has proposed this and there is no need for the Bureau to have any position here. Let's continue with the second reading of this bill if we want to go to the evening! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U273	Thank you! It bothers me very much that you did not allow a procedural question to be asked before the hammer hit, but that you deleted my and Hanno Pevkur's request. That is why we will continue this debate. Today, the Bureau decided to interpret the draft in its own way, freely how it would be withdrawn, rather than interrupting the reading. Once again, Parliament is sovereign in its procedural work; it itself decides on the manner in which it deals with it. If this procedure has not been recorded in the government, it will not prevent us from proceeding in any way. You interpret it freely. There was no consensus in the board, so the hall must decide, a good chairman.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U274	I interpret it on the basis of precedents and on the basis that the Bureau found that once the Government of the Republic has carried out the readmission procedure, the proposal to terminate the Government of the Republic is unambiguously understandable and presented to us. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U275	Well, I'll check it out. Am I correct to understand that the Bureau took the view that the initiator's representative, within the meaning of § 107 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, was also the initiator's representative? I will ask for this for future information for all future generations and the new Riigikogu. We understand in the same way that the Minister of the Government of the Republic can always come here at second reading and represent the whole government, regardless of the position of the government. That's the first question. I've got a little more time. The second question relates to the future fate of this draft. Am I right to understand that, since the deadline for amendments is 27 February, our membership will end on 21 February, this draft will fall out of the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U276	Our membership will not end on 21 February. Our composition ends when the Riigikogu Election Committee announces the results of the next Riigikogu election. In order for the Government of the Republic to make a different rule on our proposal, specifying the suspension of the reading of the draft, I agree. At the moment, the government's regulation only talks about withdrawal, not a word about interruption. I think we can appeal to the government to propose that they change their rules. There's been a text message now, but it wasn't enough phone calls. Let's keep going. Bill 736. Kristen Michal, let's go! Please, Kristen Michal!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U277	Good Chairman! I still maintain that I find it extremely problematic that the Riigikogu's board, who did not even agree on the interpretation of the government procedure, now decides to interrupt the procedure in this way. In any case, it's problematic. And secondly, in fact, the legislator has given a decision on how to deal with matters in this house, away from the executive. That's definitely a problem. Thank you. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Me kardame saali hääletust.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U278	The Board of the Riigikogu was fully in agreement that once the procedure for readmission has been completed by the government, there is every reason to interrupt reading. It was a decision. We don't want to get involved in the government's work anymore. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U279	I would like to ask, Mr President, whether we did not have any opportunity to vote on this proposal. Didn't we really have that interpretation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U280	There was no such opportunity. It would be very funny if Article 107 (1) of the Rules of Procedure Act states who has the right to interrupt, but the large hall begins to decide whether they have the right to interrupt. Then this paragraph 107 (1) makes no sense at all. Then we should vote in any case. But I think it is very honest with the initiator that he has the right to interrupt if the draft takes the form in which he sees the need to stop reading the draft. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U281	Thank you. I would like the verbatim to remain the fact that it really is the speaker's interpretation and understanding. In the future, then, no speaker can say that there are precedents such as today here that can be taken as a basis in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U282	I understand, Honourable People's Ladies and gentlemen, onion. It would be easier for me, too, or whoever is in charge of the hearing, to repeat this work if all cases of life were covered by paragraphs in the Home and Working Procedures Act. As a rule, certain cases cannot even be considered theoretically. That is why there are practices to interpret one or the other, in this case § 107 (1). This has always been the case in the Riigikogu. The VII Riigikogu could not have worked at all if it had not done so. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U283	Then the verbatim report could also be agreed: if a fine is imposed on the Estonian state, it will not come to the parliament of the Republic of Estonia and to the 101 members who are currently trying to organise this work in some way, but will go to Riina Sikkut personally.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U284	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U285	Thank you, manager. I would like to ask how much of the President of the Chamber would have been Enn Fronta or Kalle Laane, whether they would have expressed exactly the same thoughts, or whether they would have interpreted this situation differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U286	The entire board and I tried to agree at least on the procedure, which can be decided by the board, which cannot be decided by the board. Indeed, the question that Jaanus Karilaid asked is in addition to the question asked by Priit Sibula. In the Rules of Procedure Act, we use the term 'direction', to be honest, in two different ways. One is the meaning of three people, and the other is the meaning of the manager. It has been interpreted differently in the Rules of Procedure Act as ordinary law. That's right. But now 736 SE second reading. The representative of the Committee on the Environment is Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U287	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Now on a whole different subject, hopefully calmer. The amendment to the Industrial Emissions Act clarifies the provisions and removes from the existing law inconsistencies with European Union law, as pointed out by the European Commission. The amendments are of a technical nature in particular. The wording of the provisions will be improved, a more uniform system of definitions will be used and the requirements for the submission and disclosure of an emergency environmental inspection report will be clarified. The first reading of the draft was completed on 5 December last year and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 19 December. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft, but the Committee on the Environment decided to submit two proposals, at the request of the Ministry of the Environment or the Minister of the Environment. During the period between first and second readings, the draft has been dealt with three times at the Commission meeting: 22 January, 28 January and 29 January. All three meetings discussed the presentation of amendments by the Commission. And now I'm going to tell you a little bit more about what these committee meetings looked like. At the meeting on 22 January, a member of the Commission asked that the first reading of the draft was completed on 5 December 2018, that the deadline for amendments was 19 December and that no proposals had been received by that date. Later, however, the Ministry of the Environment proposed an amendment by the Commission. Why it was only then, later. Heiko Heitur, Head Specialist of the Department of Ambient Air and Radiation of the Ministry of the Environment, explained that the proposal seeks to solve the problem of residual used tyres. Eesti Energia wants to use tyre pellets to produce oil shale oil. To this end, the definition of oil shale fuel oil in the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Tax Act needs to be amended. It will then be possible to use up to 30% of the raw material for oil production. So there is a desire to make an amendment to the article of another law in the draft. On this point, one Member of the Commission asked why there was no amendment to the draft at the time. Lauri Lelumes, adviser to the Tax and Customs Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, replied that the Ministry of Finance learned about this problem at the end of October last year. According to the Excise Act, oil from oil shale is only classified as oil made entirely from oil shale. Where additives are used, they shall be considered as heavy fuel oil. Only this fuel oil benefits from the Act on Excise Duty. The Ministry of the Environment submitted a proposal to amend the draft Act on excise duties at the last minute, so that no opinion could be drawn up on this point. The Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support the proposal at that time. The subject has now been examined and the Ministry of Finance is in favour of the proposal. In addition, one Member of the Commission asked for clarification of the benefits of oil shale fuel oil. Heiko Heitur pointed out that the production of heavy fuel oil in the excise warehouse must be traceable and measurable, while oil shale fuel oil does not need to have such measuring devices. Lauri Lelumes added that the traceability of oil shale fuel oil measurements need not be demonstrated because oil shale fuel oil production is not the same as the handling of petrol and diesel fuel, where the risks are much higher. Therefore, the change does not increase the tax risk. In terms of excise duty, this is a neutral proposal. One Member of the Commission was interested in why the amendment on the Industrial Emissions Act is not a draft. Heiko Heitur explained that the change was time-critical. When the draft Act on excise duties was processed, the proposal was delayed and could now be included in the draft law amending the Act on Industrial Emissions. If there is no change, Eesti Energia cannot proceed with the development works. It is also important for the Ministry of the Environment to solve the problem of used tyres. One Member of the Commission asked why the limit is set at 30%, not more or less. Heiko Heitur replied that the combined nomenclature regulation stated that if 70% are oil shale and 30% impurities, fuel could still be defined as oil shale fuel oil. People were wondering if Viru Chemistry Group would be left behind by Eesti Energia when using tire chips. Heiko Heitur stated that the VKG had no interest in this, but it might. The two oils will certainly be distinguished and there will be no competition problem. It is important that the consumer also differentiates between two fuels and that the documentation indicates the use of tyre chips in the production of fuel oil. Oil shale oil is largely exported as marine fuel. One Member of the Commission asked why it was urgent to change. Heiko Heitur replied that it is now possible to amend another law, otherwise the excise law will have to be reopened by the Ministry of Finance. Lauri Toymees added that it is likely that this change will be made in the course of some other changes and will only take effect in 2020. At the same time, Eesti Energia wants to start producing immediately. In addition, the excise duty law is amended more extensively once a year, as a rule, because of such a minor change, the law would not be opened. One member of the Commission wondered whether 30% of oil shale fuel oil could be added to any addition other than tyre chips. Heiko Heitur replied that this option existed, but the definition is defined only by adding tyre chipps, as there is a major problem with this type of waste. There was also an interest in how much oil, i.e. what is the efficiency of adding the tire chip. Jelena Hanus of the Ministry of the Environment replied that the efficiency is at least twice that of oil shale. The breakage of tyres results in metal waste and black ash, which are equivalent in characteristics to oil shale ash. At the same time, it can reduce oil shale mining. Finally, it was decided to find out how much tyre lumps are going to be used and to continue the debate on the draft next week. The Commission continued the debate at its meeting on 28 January. The chairman of the committee noted that the last meeting was left with questions as to why it was necessary to rush to make a change and what are the objectives of Eesti Energia AS and the volumes of use of tyre chippings. In addition, Aire Rihe, Head of the Environmental Technology Department of the Ministry of the Environment, replied that the draft amendment had come to the Riigikogu so late, as the need to amend the provision only arose in autumn last year. Eesti Energia has submitted an application for an amendment to the complex permit in order to use tyre chips in the production of oil shale oil. There is a limit in the current law to the fact that added oil cannot be considered oil shale oil. The concept must therefore be reworded, and the amendment of the Act on Excise Duties was proposed for this purpose. When the same proposal came to the Committee on Monetary Affairs last year, it was found that the proposal reached too late a stage in the Commission's draft procedure, and the proposal was rejected. As the draft Industrial Emissions Act is currently underway and the proposal relates more to technological aspects than to finance, the proposal was submitted to this draft law. Lauri Tolumees noted that this proposal was submitted to the Ministry of Finance at the last minute and a number of questions arose which could not be answered so quickly. New knowledge has now been acquired and the position has changed. The Ministry of Finance agrees with the proposal. In particular, it is a solution to the environmental problem. The Commission asked for an overview of Eesti Energia's plans for the use of tyre chips. In addition, Andres Tropp, representing Eesti Energia, who is the Head of the Estonian Energy Regulatory Relations Department, explained that the oil content of tyre chips is three to four times higher than that of oil shale. The aim of the trials so far was to assess the environmental impacts and the quality of the product obtained. It is possible to replace oil shale by up to a third of the use of tyre choppers. Also, the ash content of the tire chips is about seven times smaller than oil shale. In the Enefit-140 unit, up to 4% of the tyre chips can be added to the Enefit-280 unit and up to 10% of the input volume can be added to the Enefit-140 unit. The ash analysis carried out showed that the added tyre does not affect the composition of the ash and remains within the permitted limit values. While 100000 tonnes of tyre waste per year were mentioned in the application for the complex authorisation, this is the factory's technical limit value and not the production plan. Nor does Eesti Energia intend to use tyres in this volume. The limit for the use of tyre choppers could be 30000 tonnes per year. There are approximately 15000 tonnes of used tyres per year in Estonia and the Raad has a storage capacity of about 25000 tonnes, which should last for the first few years. Eesti Energia also has an interest in bringing old tyres into the Baltic and Scandinavian markets. However, there is no plan to put up new production equipment for this purpose, which would create additional environmental impacts. It was also asked whether oil shale mining would decrease due to the use of tyres. Andres Tropp replied that with the inclusion of tyres, less oil shale will certainly be used, but how much, this is demonstrated by the optimisation of production processes. One member of the Commission wondered which, economically speaking, was more reasonable as a production input, whether tyres or oil shale. Andres Tropp said it's very different. There are currently no supply contracts, but since this is an important environmental problem, a solution is being sought. At the same time, used tyres have to be chipped before oil production and thus investments are certainly higher than for oil shale. At the same time, the tyres provide more oil as a bonus. It was also asked whether the KIK project for the acquisition of equipment would be submitted for the shredding of tyres. Andres Tropp replied that an application to support the purchase of a chipper was not excluded. There was interest in adding up to 30% to the oil shale, and Andres Tropp replied that the technical capability of Enefit-140 equipment was up to 4%. It was asked whether this 4% could be covered with Estonian tyres or whether it already requires imports. Andres Tropp noted that 4% of Estonian tyres are covered by old tyres. It was asked how many tonnes of tyres were 4% of the total volume, and Andres Tropp replied that 3.5 million tonnes of oil shale were used for two oil factories, 4% of which is about 140000 tonnes. The Commission noted that there is therefore a high likelihood that significant volumes of tyres will be imported. Andres Tropp stressed that it was difficult to get tyres off the market under suitable conditions. Another question was asked: what will be the system of the producer responsibility organisation of tyre importers. Aire Rihe replied that in Estonia, according to the principle of producer responsibility, there is an obligation to collect the tyres that it has placed on the market. It is valid within Estonia and is the responsibility of the producer or producer responsibility organisation. If the change goes through and Eesti Energia starts using tyres, then the price of old tyres may probably rise. The current system does not need to be changed; rather, innovation will make the system work properly. The draft amendment to the Waste Act proposes an excise duty on tyres if they are not reused over the years. The Member of the Commission asked for clarification as to how it would be controlled. Aire Rihe noted that for this purpose a register of problem products would be used, where data would be entered each quarter. If the tyres have been handled, a certificate shall be provided. While the database creates inconsistencies with regard to tyres placed on the market and handled, it is clear that somewhere the tyres have not been handled. It was also asked which was more beneficial to nature: either to produce oil from tyres or to produce oil shale. Andres Tropp replied that the ash content of tyres was so small that it did not affect the environmental impact of the ash generated by the production. At the same time, it takes nearly three times less oil shale. The Ministry of Finance's position was once again questioned. Lauri Tolumees explained that the Ministry of Finance lacked sufficient information at the end of last year. Now this knowledge exists and there is no reason to oppose this change at this time. With the exception of the amendment, oil shale oil containing the tyre should be stored separately from other goods as it would be heavy fuel oil. This would entail additional costs for the company. The question was further asked where the use of such tyre chippings in the waste management hierarchy would take place. Aire Rihe replied that this would be a re-use, but no specific recycling rates were set for tyres. There was still interest in the rapid disappearance of the Raad's tire pile when the law came into force. Andres Tropp said he couldn't say exactly, but Raad's old tires are definitely a priority. Another question was asked: what is the guarantee that Eesti Energia will use the tyres used here in the first place, rather than those of its closest neighbours that can be obtained on more favourable terms? Andres Tropp replied that no guarantee could be given for this, but the second solution would not be morally justified and possible in view of the company's perspective. Aire Rike added that for Raad tyres forced execution would be applied. In order to create an obligation to handle tyres within Estonia, the draft amendment to the Waste Act proposes an excise duty on tyres. There was also an interest in having someone recycle tires in a similar way in the world. Andres Tropp replied that by analogy no, since oil shale oil is not produced in this way anywhere in the world. Tyres are also produced in the rest of the world as an oil but not oil shale oil additive. Once again, it was asked whether adding tyres to oil shale oil would in any way lead to a deterioration in the quality of the plant's air emissions. Heiko Heitur replied that ambient air quality is certainly not deteriorating, air pollution is regulated by the requirements and permits of combustion plants. Andres Tropp added that the tire is not burned, but is an exhaust process where there is no air access and no combustion. On this point, one Member of the Commission pointed out that the justification for this proposal is too vague, only the problem of used tyres is described, but nowhere does the results of the Estonian Energia multi-annual survey be read. Without further clarification, the proposed proposal cannot be accepted. Andres Tropp explained that Eesti Energia can only cooperate with the grantor of the permit and have been provided with all the information requested. Aire Rike added that Eesti Energia has communicated the results of the research to the Ministry and that they will be sent to the Commission if they so wish. In addition, the Member of the Commission agreed that the idea of the proposal was a good one, but the process of proposing an amendment was poorly thought out. Finally, it was agreed that a reasoned explanation or impact analysis would be sent to the Commission as a matter of urgency within the day, as the current explanation would not be sufficient. The consensus decided to continue the debate. The Committee on the Environment met again on 29 January to discuss this draft. The chairman of the committee noted that the more detailed explanation requested at the previous meeting, together with the results of the analysis of Eesti Energia AS, has reached the members of the committee. It was also asked that if the draft Waste Act was not further processed, it would be possible to transfer the amendment of the tyre excise duty to the draft 736. Aire Rihe replied that the NGO Tyre Circle categorically opposed this. However, the priority of the Ministry of the Environment is certainly now to complete the draft wishing to amend the Industrial Emissions Act. It was decided to propose the following Commission amendments to draft 736: Firstly, make the following substantive related amendments to the draft and amend the title of the draft by formulating it as follows: the Industrial Emissions Act and the Amending Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. Paragraph 19 (10) of the Act on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity shall be amended and worded as follows: 'Soil shale oil for the purposes of this Act is oil shale fuel, of which up to 30 per cent by mass may form a tyre bite. " The result of the vote was consensual. Second, delete subsection 1 (5) of the draft, amending the numbering of the following points:'(5) in paragraph 46 (2) (13), the wording '§ 265 (7)'shall be replaced by the text '§ 265 (10) '. The outcome of the vote was consensual. Next: delete the draft technical note: 'Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on industrial emissions'. Result of the vote: consensual. The procedural decisions were as follows: to propose that the second reading of draft 736 be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 13 February, to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped and, if the second reading of the draft is closed, to propose that the third reading of draft 736 be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 20 February and then to hold a final vote. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U288	Thank you, Mrs Urve Palo, Member of the Committee on the Environment. You have at least one question. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U289	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you very much for the well-read protocol. We could have read it ourselves, and whoever's interested has already read it. It's like talking about something. The crow doesn't just fly. My question is, who did this initiative come from, so-called, time-critically? Did Eesti Energia, whose appetite for these tyres is much greater than those of Raadi 15,000 tonnes, or did it come from the 'Brothers' of Raadi, who break them? Where did this initiative come from, so-called urgent?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U290	The committee came from the Ministry of the Environment. Where did it come from at the Ministry of the Environment? I assume it came from Eesti Energia. I don't know exactly, but I assume it came from Eesti Energia. While the representative of Eesti Energia was on the Commission, he really expressed a very clear interest in going forward with the tests. They had already carried out a number of tests, they were successful, and they saw the problem that if this legislative amendment was not made and oil shale fuel oil had to be treated in different ways, whether it was made from 100% oil shale or had partly been used, it would be too expensive and it would not make sense to do so. So they wouldn't have any interest and sense to go on with this. So I saw the interest of Eesti Energia very clearly. And I also saw the interest of the Ministry of the Environment, from the very point of view, that it provides an opportunity to find a reasonable solution to the problem of what to do with old tyres that can't do anything. And not just in Estonia. I admit, a good member of the Riigikogu, that when this proposal came to the table, I was very disturbed at first glance. It seemed, figuratively speaking, that a bow tie was being tried to sew a whole suit. The draft law amending the Small Industrial Emissions Act, which, to a large extent, actually specified the European Union's standards, became a completely different draft, which offers a very fundamental change. With the first kick I was quite opposed to dealing with it in such an urgent way at all, and I said that it would deserve a separate debate, a separate procedure. But when I got really into this subject and this problem, I found that, on the other hand, it really seems like a reasonable idea to move on with it quickly now. Otherwise, it would perhaps be discussed here in the Riigikogu for the next six months; Eesti Energia could not move forward with the subject and piles of tires would continue to gather. So that's why I've decided to meet the judge. It was supported by the Commission. It's not good practice, but the thing that's being done is, I think, good.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U291	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U292	Good manager! Good waitress! I can hear such a nice mumble already, that good thing. But if the suit is suddenly sewn to the bow tie and the appetite of Eesti Energia is ten times greater than the tyre waiting for its time on the Raad, what is the commercial interest of Eesti Energia? There are not so many tires in Estonia and their appetite is ten times greater, according to my data, even 20 times greater than Raadi has tyres. Where do they get the necessary pile of tires, and at what prices? And how will it affect the price and nature of this oil shale oil?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U293	Thank you for your question. There were several questions, and I would be happy to answer them in turn. First of all, although this bill provides for the possibility of using up to 30% of the tire chips, there is no plan to use that much in practice. Why 30%? The European Commission will also base its definition of oils on what is up to 70% the main component of oil, and then 30% will allow something else to be added. It was decided that the same definition would be introduced. That's one. As a result of its tests, Eesti Energia says at least now that up to 4% of tire chips go into the Enefit-140 device and up to 10% in the Enefit-220 device. Actually, 30% is a long way off right now, they can't use that much. 4% and 10% are possible, i.e. quantities are not very high. But true, if we look at how many old tires occur in Estonia each year, we will see that the numbers are different. In one place it is said that 15,000 tonnes, in another place that 12,000 tonnes, in the third to 10000 tonnes. It also depends on the year in which old tires are formed. In any case, they are somewhat less than they can be used. The representative of Eesti Energia said it would be possible to use 30000 tonnes a year. So they are ready to bring them in from elsewhere in the Baltics and beyond. In itself, if Estonian tyres have been used, why not bring them. Why are they doing this? Where's the benefit? There are several aspects. First, indeed, the current tests say that the oil content is four times higher in the tire chip than in the oil shale. Although using one ton of tire chips reduces the amount of oil shale 2.5 times, not four times. That too has been pointed out. This is one fact that interests Eesti Energia. And on the wider side, it's a good thing, of course, that ash comes seven times less. Eesti Energia doesn't know what to do with ash, at least not in such large quantities. So this aspect also asks them to be interested that ash should be less deposited and less taxed on it. And, of course, there is environmental pressure and also pressure from the state. We got a problem with old tires, we don't know what to do with them. However, there is such support to be used in such a way. At the same time, Eesti Energia feels that it also has a moral responsibility to the state. And, of course, it's very good that we use every ton of our people's wealth wisely. This mineral is not regenerateable, it is not generated, and the less oil shale we use, the better. So this positive side, too, is definitely on it. This may be a long story for you to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U294	Thank you, Mrs. Palo! No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U295	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U296	I'm opening negotiations. Marko Pomerants, please! In place? Please, in place for two minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U297	I just want to say, in addition to Urve Palo, that this is a very sensible and progressive solution. So far, producer responsibility organisations have had no solution to start with these tyres for a reasonable amount of money. We can see them in Estonian nature and now it is possible to turn it in favour of environmental damage. I'm glad we're here. And Eesti Energia has been a very good partner for the government here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U298	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please! Whoo! Would you like to make a speech, Mr. Ernits? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U299	Good manager! A few colleagues! I understand dinner's waiting, and it's like I want to finish the day. But I think this subject is quite important, though a little sexy. The tire piles on the boat have been a problem for years. Every once in a while, they go on fire and whatever happens to them. And there's nothing you can do. There is no doubt that now that the initiative has come, that we will set them on fire and brew oil from them, it will be great. And all these pluses that oil gets more and ash less. But there are several buts. So far, oil shale oil was only made from oil shale, and now the European Commission's regulation on oil oils was discovered. There's a cocktail of 70:30 and it got fingernails and wondered why not add something to oil shale oil. From there came this formula 70: 30. But why the bill now so quickly and suddenly and as time critically just a nice word! It's a question of its own. It was a long time ago that the problem was known. But it was also known, of course, that this Riigikogu membership would soon complete the work. By the way, these cocktail mixes are on other liquids. Do you know what the cider's composition and definition are? Cider is an alcoholic beverage made from apple juice when it is fermented. And when you make cider, you can put some pear juice in it. And perry is an alcoholic drink that's made the same way. This cocktail formation. Look, right now we have a new cocktail composition: for oil shale oil, the ratio is 70 to 30. So either apple juice and pear juice or vice versa. But the main thing is, as I said, that Raad has about 15,000 tons of tyres, but the appetite for Eesti Energia is ten times greater, even 20 times greater. And as we know, the tires aren't available freely, the tyres are actually short when they're needed. And that raises questions. If you can finally crush this Raad for one year and burn it, it's okay. But where will Eesti Energia start to bring the rest of the necessary tyre quantity to produce this cocktail? Of course, at first the ratio is not 70:30. There are no analyses in the Commission on this, as I understand it. But this is a matter of urgency again. And, as the esteemed Urve Palo said, the bow tie, i.e. the Industrial Emissions Act, hastened the suit. Maybe we could think a little longer and wait for these tests. On the one hand, it's a good idea to come under this flag, but why are we suddenly sewing on a bow tie without knowing the economic calculations and the various possibilities? Such a small observation. Sorry I wasted your worth of time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U300	Thank you. There are no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. There are also three amendments to the draft, all from the lead committee. Let's go through them! The first amendment, to take full account of the second amendment, to take full account of the third amendment, the position of the lead committee as well: to take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 736. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U301	We are going to our 12th item, which is the second reading of draft international sanction law 721 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mart Nut, Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U302	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I recall what the substance of the bill is. The bill updates and organises the International Sanctions Act. The draft text of the new International Sanctions Act has four main objectives. Firstly, to correct the division of competence for the national implementation of the international sanction in such a way as to comply with the advanced sanction regimes. Secondly, to include a legal framework for the imposition of sanctions by the Government of the Republic in situations where no agreement on sanctions is reached in the United Nations or the European Union. Thirdly, modernise the specific regulation of financial sanctions. Fourthly, amend the Penal Code in such a way as to enable infringements of the sanction to be effectively dealt with. The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the draft at two meetings: 28 January and 11 February. First of all, on 28 January, Marko Mihkelson, President of the Commission, Andres Herkel, Anne Sulling, Barbi Pilvre, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Nutt, Oudekki Loone, Valdo Randpere, Birgit Keerd-Leppik, Adviser-Secretariat, Ivar Mölder as advisor, Laura Särg as a protocol director, the communication manager of the House and advisor to the Finance Committee Andres Ando. There was no Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and no Vladimir Velman. And another meeting. On 11 February, Marko Mihkelson, who chaired the meeting, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Andres Herkel, Anne Sulling, Barbi Pilvre and Mart Nutt, as advisor Birgit Keerd-Leppik and Ivar Mölder, as protocol officer of Laura Särg and also as advisor to the Finance Committee, Andres Ando. I would stress that the Committee on Monetary Affairs played a very important role in completing this draft, their competent advice helped to formalise the draft properly. Henn Põllaas, Oudekki Loone, Valdo Randpere and Vladimir Velman were absent. The members of the Riigikogu made no proposals for the draft, no amendments were tabled. However, two Commission draft amendments from two letters had to be examined. These amendments were made first by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the letters that came to the Foreign Affairs Committee were from the Estonian Insurance Association. The latter proposed to lay down in the draft a waiver from the liability of the person imposing international sanctions where the application would cause damage to another person. The Financial Supervision Authority presented four proposals and comments. I'm not going to read all these details. The proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was to support two of these proposals and two were not. Since these proposals had not been submitted from the Riigikogu but came from outside, the Committee on Foreign Affairs formalised these two proposals in a table of proposals as proposals by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And it was decided to support these proposals at the meeting on 28 January. At its meeting on 11 February, the documents were reviewed for a second reading and confirmed. The procedural decisions were as follows: Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda for a second reading on 13 February. On this side were Marko Mihkelson, Andres Herkel, Anne Sulling, Barbi Pilvre, Henn Põlluaas, Mart Nutt, Oudekki Loone and Valdo Randpere. There is also a proposal to send the draft, when the second reading is completed today, to a third reading at the meeting on 20 February. It was also decided by consensus. I think that's what I've talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U303	Thank you, Mr. Nutt. You have at least one question. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U304	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Nutt! Such an explanatory question. We have also recently adopted amendments to the exit obligation and prohibition of entry law here, which qualify as Magnitski law, as they exist in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, the United Kingdom and the United States. Maybe there's a few other countries, I don't know exactly. Now we are dealing with the new version of the International Sanctions Act. That's a perfectly practical question. If, let's say, Magnitski's torturer is at the door and we do not want to let him into the Estonian state, which law will then apply? Or do both of them apply in some way?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U305	Thank you. It's hard for me to say which one or both. I think that basically both apply, because both of them actually provide the means of sanctioning. But it is important to stress that by law we create a framework. The decision to allow and not to allow in Estonia is made by executive power.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U306	Thank you, Mr. Nutt. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. There are also two amendments to the draft proposal from the lead committee, which we will examine. The first amendment is to take full account of the position of the lead committee, the second amendment is also from the lead committee. It is therefore proposed to take full account of this. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 721. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U307	We will go to item 13 on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on trademark law, protection of industrial design and amendment of other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please speak to Mr Aasa, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U308	Good evening. This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 26 November last year. The first reading took place in this Chamber on 16 January. By 23 January, when there was a deadline for submitting amendments, no amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The working group of the Economic Commission prepared the draft for the meeting of the Commission at the meeting on 10 January, where we met with representatives of the Estonian Bar Association, the Association of Patent Attorneys and the Ministry of Justice and discussed the issues that will be covered in this draft. The main issue is the simplification of obtaining a patent attorney's profession and the question of whether a professional examination should be carried out. The lawyer thinks that they understand the substantive work of the patent attorney and would not need a professional examination; the patent attorneys maintained their position that a professional examination is still necessary. This is also supported by the Ministry of Justice, the initiator of the draft. And so it remained in the draft text. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft itself on 28 and 31 January. We went over these things. The initiator made ten amendments, most of them technical. One of the less substantial changes was that, if there was previously a requirement that you have to work continuously in this area four years before being a patent attorney, then we relaxed this requirement. Now it's written that you must have four years of work experience, but in the last ten years. Perhaps in the meantime, someone has been home or abroad studying with the child or taking a short break in the work. This four years of continuous work was a pretty harsh restriction. So, in any case, it will be easier to become a patent attorney in the future and the whole sector will be better regulated. Since there is another draft amendment to the Trademark Act in Parliament's proceedings, we also had to amend some of the paragraphs so that, at exactly the same time, even during this evening, we would probably not be confusing by changing this trademark law. Thus, some paragraphs were removed and replaced by others. Now everything should be legally correct. We did not have any world-view differences in the Commission; all the decisions were consensual. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading before the Plenary Assembly by 13 February and to propose that the second reading be closed. And when the second reading is completed, the third reading, or final vote, could be held on 20 February. All the decisions we made were unanimous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U309	Thank you, Mr. As! You don't seem to have any questions. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. There are then ten amendments to this draft from the lead committee, and we will examine them. The first amendment, which is from the lead committee, is to be taken fully into account. Second amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, lead committee: take full account. The third amendment is similarly from the lead committee: take full account. Fourth amendment, lead committee: take full account. Fifth amendment, position of the commission: take full account. Sixth amendment, position of the commission: take full account. Seventh amendment, position of the commission: take full account. Eighth amendment, position of the commission: take full account. The ninth proposal, the position of the lead committee: take full account. And the tenth amendment, the position of the commission: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 765. The second reading of Bill 765 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U310	We are going to point 14 on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on traffic initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please address Erki Savisaare, member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U311	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Traffic Act was initiated by the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee on 13 November last year. The first reading of the draft act took place in the Riigikogu's plenary session on 17 January and the first reading was closed. The purpose of the draft is to enable mobile speed cameras to be deployed. The current regulation of speed cameras has so far not allowed the introduction of mobile speed cameras. According to § 199 (1) (4) of the Traffic Act, traffic supervision may be carried out by mobile or stationary technical means, but subsections 2 to 5 of the same section provide for the possibility of using only fixed facilities in the case of an automatic traffic surveillance system. This is the case, in particular, because the speed camera system and the provisions relating to it were created in the light of the technological tools of their own time. At present, however, there is an opportunity to interface mobile speed cameras with the existing stationary speed cameras system. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Road Traffic Act 752 at its meeting on 28 January. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft law amending the Road Traffic Act initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee at its meeting on 13 December 2018 and decided to support it. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications presented a proposal to complement the draft with an extension of the possibilities for carrying out roadworthiness tests. The Government's opinion also referred the opinion of the Ministry of Justice to the Committee on Economic Affairs on the need to clarify the purpose of the introduction of mobile speed cameras. The Ministry of Justice also considers that the measuring point of the mobile speed camera must be marked with a sign before starting the measurement. In the view of the Ministry, in the absence of this, the punishment of a person travelling too quickly on the basis of the result of the measurement of a mobile speed camera is not justified because he was not given the opportunity to correct his behaviour and to refrain from committing an offence. Veiko Kombusar, a representative of the Ministry of the Interior, who took part in the debate on the referral of the draft to first reading in the Commission on 18 December, explained that speed cameras aim to ensure compliance with traffic rules and a safe driving environment. He confirmed that for mobile speed cameras, the measuring point should be marked with a traffic code. Such signs of automatic inspection have been regulated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in Regulation No 12 on the meanings of mobility signs and road signs and requirements for traffic lights, already adopted on 22 February 2011. Automatic check marks can also be used to identify the location where mobile speed cameras are measured without amending the Regulation. During the meeting, the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and procedural decisions were taken. Hindrek Allvee, Adviser to the Road and Railway Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, participated in the meeting on 28 January. The draft was sent to the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for technical and linguistic purposes, and the comments of the language editor are included in the text of the draft. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was 24 January at 5 p.m. Only the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications submitted an amendment to the commission for consideration. The Commission decided on the amendment by vote. The Commission supported the amendment by consensus. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications proposed supplementing the draft and introducing two provisions into the Traffic Act in order to regulate the situation where there is also a technical inspection of the motor vehicle and its trailer registered in the Estonian Traffic Register in Estonia, carried out in another Member State of the European Union. According to the current Estonian and European Union law, the recognition of roadworthiness tests by another Member State is that if a vehicle registered in another European Union country is registered in Estonia and the certificate of roadworthiness tests is valid, it will be recognised and this roadworthiness test will also be entered in the traffic register. However, the recognition of pan-European roadworthiness tests does not exist if, for example, a vehicle registered in the Estonian traffic register is requested to carry out roadworthiness tests in another Member State, while the vehicle remains in the Estonian register. At the same time, the European Union's right to make such agreements between countries. This possibility is also provided for in Directive 2014/45/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers and repealing the previous Directive. According to recital 16 in the preamble to the Directive, a Member State should be entitled to designate testing centres located outside its territory to carry out roadworthiness tests on vehicles registered in its territory, provided that that testing centre is authorised to carry out vehicle surveys in its country of residence. Therefore, the validity of roadworthiness tests pursuant to this amendment is a prerequisite that roadworthiness tests have been carried out by the relevant person carrying out roadworthiness tests in the Member State referred to in § 191 (11) of the Road Traffic Act, which may be companies carrying out roadworthiness tests in a Member State of the European Union or by other persons who have been authorised to do so by the competent authority of their State. Secondly, pursuant to § 191 (11) of the Road Act, the Road Administration has concluded a cooperation agreement with the competent authority of the Member State of the European Union concerned on the carrying out of roadworthiness tests. And third, the result of the roadworthiness test is recorded in the traffic register. The purpose of the amendment is to allow vehicles registered in the traffic register but mainly engaged in international traffic to undergo roadworthiness tests outside Estonia. At the same time, the amendment obliges the inspection to be carried out outside Estonia in accordance with equivalent requirements if the Traffic Act and the legislation established on the basis thereof provide for. It is therefore stipulated that a cooperation agreement may be concluded where the person carrying out roadworthiness tests and the carrying out of roadworthiness tests in the Member State concerned is subject to requirements at least equivalent to those laid down in the Traffic Act and in the legislation established on the basis thereof, including the time limits for carrying out roadworthiness tests, the volume of units to be checked, the definition of failures, the criteria for assessing the outcome of the inspection, the inspection decisions and any restrictions resulting therefrom, the requirements for the necessary documents and so on. Compliance will be ensured by the fact that the cooperation agreement defines certain persons who will be allowed to carry out roadworthiness tests on vehicles registered in the traffic register. Prior to the conclusion of the cooperation agreement, the Public Road Administration shall assess the relevant requirements of the country concerned and, if necessary, shall undertake in-depth training and training for persons designated by the cooperation agreement. Therefore, the owner of the vehicle, the responsible user or the inspector of the vehicle would not be affected by any changes in the scope of the roadworthiness test. As a positive effect of the change, the competitiveness of transit companies will increase as they will have the opportunity to carry out roadworthiness tests for their fleet outside Estonia. In particular, transport companies that have the possibility to enter into long-term contracts to carry out their machinery only between certain European countries, such as Central Europe, have problems today, but, depending on the age of the fleet, the whole fleet of machinery must be driven to Estonia for a period of time to technical inspection. This leads to a situation in which a certain part of the fleet cannot fulfil its obligations under the contract. In addition to the inefficient use of time, this leads to additional financial costs, as the cost of traveling one vehicle from Central Europe to Estonia and back is estimated to be 2,000 euros. In addition to the time and cost of money, this obligation to undergo a roadworthiness test in Estonia worsens the possibility of entering into profitable contracts for transport in other European countries. The commission adopted the decision to send the draft law amending the Traffic Act to the Riigikogu for a second reading by today's 13 February with the proposal to terminate the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 20 February and to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U312	Thank you. You have at least one question. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Am I right to understand that the basic aim of the draft law, the one and only objective of which was to enable mobile traffic cameras to be installed, has now become a whole new side of the legislation on the organisation of roadworthiness tests? The matter of itself in the other half is very reasonable, but my question is: is the Road Administration, which is authorised to conclude cooperation agreements with the authorities concerned in another country, ready for this job? Have they already concluded such cooperation agreements with any of the countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U314	Thank you. As far as I know, the Road Administration has the capacity, so at least we were assured in committee. No agreement has been concluded so far because they do not yet have this mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U315	Thank you, Mr. Savisaar. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. There is one amendment from the Governing Commission, let us review it. This is then Amendment 1 and the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs as the lead committee is to take this fully into account. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 752. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U316	Let's go to item 15. Second reading of Bill 778 on the Implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Constitutional Commission. Please, Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U317	Good evening, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a bill that has already been before us, not in this form. I have given a speech here once asking not to refer this draft to the final vote. I did so because there was a risk that the draft would not be compatible with the Constitution. We have now reached a second reading with the bill. What isn't in this bill anymore? There are no amendments to the Prisoning Act in this draft, which caused problems in reading the previous version of the draft. We decided we're not going to deal with them right now. The Office of the Chancellor of Justice and the Ministry of Justice will be able to consult each other on the violation of fundamental rights for as long as it takes, and then the new composition of the Riigikogu will be able to return to it. There is at least another imperfect place in this draft, which concerns, I dare say, the mismatch between the Personal Data Protection Act and the Public Information Act. This issue, too, can be further addressed by the new formation. In fact, we have changed regulation in the Personal Data Protection Act; according to our understanding, in certain cases data could be accessed after ten years of the death of the data subject. However, if you read the Public Information Act, it still provides for a 30-year limit. Officials of the Ministry of Justice have said that the restrictions imposed by the Public Information Act need to be reviewed according to this year's work schedule. Hopefully, there will also be better legal clarity here. In this hall today, there was a little panic attack during the procedure of the draft law on the organisation of the Defence Forces and breaks were taken to clarify which changes should apply. The draft law that is now before you is in correct wording to prevent problems from occurring. Despite the fact that no amendments were received from political groups or members of the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has itself initiated 18 amendments. We recommend supporting all these Commission proposals. The Commission's procedural decision is as follows: our proposal is to conclude the second reading today and, if that happens, the final vote on this draft next week, 20 February, and we have reached a situation where, in addition to the Personal Data Protection Act, there is also a law implementing the Personal Data Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U318	Thank you, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. George Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U319	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Free Party Group, to add a few comments on draft law 778. Indeed, this is a very complex and multifaceted problem, with which this draft is affected. In today's world, the individual is indeed becoming more and more transparent in some respects with regard to the continuous improvement of technologies, so it is clear that the protection of a person's privacy must be given much greater attention than before. The previous speaker mentioned once that this draft was initiated on 13 December 2018, after the Riigikogu had rejected it on 12 December. Perhaps the next day, a new procedure was started. The reason for the rejection was technical problems and possible disproportionate interferences, as the Chancellor of Justice found in his position. The Riives concerned in particular the rights of detainees. More s. On 28 January, the Minister of Justice turned to the Committee on Legal Affairs with the proposal to include this problematic part in the draft act amending the Prison Act, which we adopted as a law a little while ago today. As it turned out, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not include it in the draft, and it was not included at all. Despite this, this draft is a 'Great Bill', which makes changes to a large number of laws. This number is 126; due to the detention law, it is likely to have been reduced. Most of these changes are terminological, for example, in the current laws the term 'delicate personal data' is replaced by the term'special personal data' which does not change much. But not only. Indeed, the processing of personal data involves a great many areas in our daily lives, in many ways. This issue is not only addressed by our special services, but also by research, for example, the processing of personal data and related rights, and these rules cannot be'very strict'. It's like looking for balance. If these requirements become excessively stringent, it is possible to create a situation where the country lacks adequate data for quite a number of areas. The current ideology that comes to us from the European Union makes it very clear that the collection of data on a person is replaced by the principles of clear purpose and minimality, just in case. Indeed, there is a need to be very attentive here, for example in the case of archives. Our principle is open archives, and with restrictions we can easily get back to the situation of the archives of our time, where the archives were closed and no one was able to get near it. Can I have three minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U320	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U321	I don't think it's going to go that far. So this is where we should think when we regulate this big, big area. Looks like the law is a bit of a blow job we've got here at the last hour. We do not even know exactly, we do not have a clear idea of what real changes will result from the adoption and entry into force of the implementing law. The Free Party therefore does not support the adoption of Bill 778 as a law. That is the position of our group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U322	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. There are 18 amendments to the draft proposal for 778; all of them have been tabled by the lead committee. Let's go through them. The first amendment, take full account; the second amendment, take full account; the third amendment, take full account; the fourth amendment, take full account; the fifth amendment, take full account; the sixth amendment, take full account; the seventh amendment, take full account; the eighth amendment, take full account; the ninth amendment, take full account; Amendment 10, take full account; Amendment 11, take full account; Amendment 12, take full account; Amendment 13, take full account; Amendment 14, take full account; Amendment 15, take full account; Amendment 16, take full account; Amendment 17, take full account; Amendment 18, take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 778. Second reading is complete. I'm sorry! We have received a proposal from the Free Party Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 778, which we must vote through. We will prepare the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention. I am voting on the proposal of the Free Party Group to suspend the second reading of draft law 778. Please take a stand and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, there were 11 members in favour of the proposal and 32 members of the Riigikogu against it, which means that the proposal was not supported. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U323	Let's go to item 16. Second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Legal Procedure of the Riigikogu initiated by the Constitutional Committee 762. Please, Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U324	Thanks! Today is such a day of tricks that there is a draft before us, where you can show your views on the Free Party's amendments. So the weather is fair, don't worry! We have tried to make amendments to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, which have either a full consensus or a majority consensus, and this majority does not mean the difference between the coalition and the opposition in this case. Now I ask for attention, all the people who think they are in the next Riigikogu, others can talk further. If we deal with this draft together, you will most likely be affected by these changes. And now the spot of attention! It is already stated in the original version of this draft, without amendments, that on Mondays it is no longer possible to get away with simply making calls in a free microphone, but also dealing with the drafts. Perhaps the government will have an additional opportunity, the ministers will be present before us with their drafts, and we will also process the drafts on Mondays. It's in the original version. Mr Sults can still give his speeches, after all, he will be in the next Riigikogu. Second spot of attention. Much has been said that the Question Time of the Riigikogu should be more meaningful. Even more or less consensually, we have come to the understanding that Question Time will be held at 12.00 p.m. on Wednesdays. Whether it is broadcast on national television, I do not know, but now there is an opportunity to show whether the composition of the Riigikogu, which is elected, is more capable of a substantive debate between the members of the Riigikogu and the representatives of the government. This two hours also includes the possibility for the questioner to formulate his or her question further and for the answerer to be given more. One issue that has often excited you is the control of your presence before the final vote on the law requiring 51 votes. Now our common amendment, the Commission's proposal, which you will certainly support, has come true, so that this verification of presence, which is not related to the vote, is no longer necessary. We also have a proposal to change the procedure for the publication of censure, which gives the authors of censure the opportunity to explain the content of their application and also to ask questions about who is currently distrustful. These were amendments initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The members of the Free Party Group also tabled amendments by the deadline. If I sum up these amendments fairly, I must say that there is an ideological gap between the other political groups and the Free Party Group. This concerns the issue of whether the Riigikogu is generally politically focused in its work or whether all ambassadors, regardless of whether they are independent or under-window ambassadors, have a say on the same terms as the political groups today. One of the proposals of the Free Party also concerns the new way in which it should be possible to form a political group so that five people, whoever they are, make their own political group. We ask for the amendments that have been welcomed by the Commission to be supported. The Commission decided that it would be reasonable to conclude the second reading today, and if this were to happen, we will be in a situation next week where amendments to the Rules of Procedure can be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U325	Thank you, Mr Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U326	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will use this time, in particular, to present the amendments tabled by the Free Party. They have indeed been tabled on behalf of the four ambassadors. Perhaps we could have presented them on behalf of the group, but it was our wish to point out that the work of the elected representative of the people in this Riigikogu should be much more central to a particular member of the Riigikogu and for members of the political group, the most drastic example of which is that those members of the Riigikogu who have left the political groups have considerably fewer rights than those of the political groups should be terminated. We actually marked three important issues. If we had taken up the entire Rules of Procedure, these amendments would probably have been considerably more. The first issue is the formation of political groups. Perhaps our understanding is that members of the Riigikogu must have the freedom to form political groups. In this case, too, if a number of people leave a large group, there are five or more, we believe that they should have the right to form a separate unit in agreement, which receives the same service from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu as all other political groups, can create corresponding positions and will receive the same rights as other political groups. Because, you see, when a large number of members of the Riigikogu decide whether to leave somewhere or to join in some way, there is necessarily some sort of political reason. It cannot be taken as a trivial mosquito in this Riigikogu that we send them to sit under the window and that solves the problem. That's not fair. If it is written here that it was found in the committee that the people chose not political groups but political parties in the Riigikogu, and consequently the Commission did not support our proposal, then I would like to ask whether, in this case, there is something superfluous also the aspect of our proportional electoral system that we are given individual votes to the ambassadors. I think that people would not agree if we had the lists of parties alone, as it is in some countries. If I go further, I can give an example of how a Member's card from one country voted at home while he himself was in Strasbourg. It was a minor scandal, but then it turned out that in that country things were arranged in such a way that the political group president had the cards and voted regardless of where these people were physically. I believe that we certainly would not want this development. We would like to go in a completely different direction and want more freedom. The second proposal concerns this restriction that an amendment which was not taken into account by the commission and which received less than two votes in favour cannot be put to the vote in plenary at second reading. I think that this, too, is not only restrictive of minority rights, but is quite foolish, because there have been examples in previous times when there has been a proposal in the table of amendments that was not really overwhelmingly supported in the Commission... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U327	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U328	... however, it was finally found that this proposal was necessary and reasonable. I also remember, by the way, where such a restriction has come from. This is one of the restrictions intended to prevent obstruction, so either the draft state budget or some other draft should not be subject to a huge number of proposals, so a small group's obstruction can be ruled out in any way. But I believe that the question should still be that the members of the Riigikogu have the right to table amendments and have the right to vote on them in the Chamber. For example, the Free Party Group, as well as the EKRE Group, do not even have representatives on all committees. In our view, this approach is certainly restrictive in the Rules of Procedure and is not right. Finally, the subject of negotiations. The fact that not all members of the Riigikogu have the right to speak at the first and third readings is certainly of a restrictive nature. In our opinion, those members of the Riigikogu who have left the political groups should also have this right, and there could even be different views within the political groups, why not. I think that the current situation is restrictive precisely for those people whose position is divided from the point of view of the person speaking on behalf of the group. Once again, when it comes to fear that all 101 ambassadors will speak and that our working hours will be longer, I think it is over-exploited fear. I still have a minute and a half. A small comment on what happened earlier in this Chamber on the interruption of the second reading by the Minister. It kind of connects to that topic. The amendment was not made here, but, as far as I know, the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure also present the possibility that the Minister will appear before the Riigikogu at second reading. No one has taken this opportunity. In the case of drafts which are important enough, or where the Minister considers that there is a risk that the Riigikogu will do something that the Minister does not think is right, I think it would be absolutely elementary for people to come here in such cases. I would like, among other things, to recommend to the next Riigikogu that this provision be implemented, which will also allow the committees to invite ministers to the Riigikogu for a second reading. We have almost forgotten this provision. So in order for the Riigikogu to be more independent and stronger, the amendments that we tabled must also be introduced and the existing Rules of Procedure used better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U329	Thank you, Mr. Herkel. There are no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. There are eight amendments to the draft and we will begin to examine them. The first amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Jüri Adams, Enn Meri, Andres Herkel and Jüri Saar, the position of the leading committee is disregarded. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U330	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U331	Let's start preparing the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by Jüri Adams, Enn Meri, Andres Herkel and Jüri Saar, members of the Riigikogu. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 4 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment, against 37. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 2, tabled by the Reform Party Group, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. Amendment 3, tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Jüri Adams, Enn Meri, Andres Herkel and Jüri Saar. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U332	Thank you, Mr President. We are asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U333	Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 3 tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams, Enn Meri, Andres Herkel and Jüri Saar. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 5 was in favour and against 31 members of the Riigikogu. The amendment was not supported. We go to Amendment 4, tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams, Enn Meri, Andres Herkel and Jüri Saar. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U334	Thank you. We are also asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U335	Yeah. Mr. Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U336	I have a procedural question. When I looked at the results of the vote, I saw that the next bench voted against me, but there is no one there, and there is not even a map in it. Oh, you're the one. Got it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] That was my distraction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U337	Thank you. We will begin the preparation of the vote on the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 4 tabled by the members of the Riigikogu, Jüri Adams, Enn Meri, Andres Herkel and Jüri Saar. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 31 against it. The amendment was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Reform Party; the position of the commission is to take full account. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment is from the Reform Party Group; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments and the second reading is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U338	Let's go to agenda item 17. Second reading of the draft law amending the State Statistics Act and the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please speak to Mr Sults, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U339	Honourable manager! Colleagues! Minutes of the meeting of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu No 243 of 31 January inclusive. On the agenda there was a debate on the draft Act amending the State Statistics Act and the Public Information Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, before sending it to second reading. There were two proposals. One of them was from the Committee on Economic Affairs itself, which was proposed by the Ministry of Finance. This was to supplement § 2 (1) of the draft, by changing the numbering of the following points in the following wording (this is a technical point): 'The collection of data in the database is based on the principle of a one-off questioning of data. " The commission took full account of it, and the decision was consensual. The second proposal consisted of two parts and was presented by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The first part consisted in supplementing § 2, new paragraph 4, with the following wording that § 1 is amended and worded as follows: The title is 'Objective of the Law' and the explanation is simply that the amendment is intended to regulate the principle of one-off requests for data in the Public Information Act. This was supplemented by the second part of the proposal in order to supplement the new clause 5 of § 2 of the draft text with the following wording that § 81 of the Act is supplemented by the following wording. Explanation: The purpose of the amendment is to establish the principle of one-off requests for data in the Public Information Act, and the procedure for asking for data once is established by a regulation of the Government of the Republic. The decision of the Economic Commission was to consider the substance. It was also a consensual decision. The debate was correct, within the limits of good practice and practically all these issues were discussed. Although there were minor shifts or rubbings on the site that our institutions didn't have, let's say, IT levels at the same speed and with the same compatibility. The Committee on Economic Affairs thus decided that the proposal was to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 13 February, and the second is to close the second reading of the draft. All were consensual decisions. Thirdly, we were thinking of sending the draft to third reading when the second reading is completed today by 20 February. The decision was consensual. And the fourth bloodline: propose a final vote on the draft. It was a consensus decision. The protocol was signed by Sven Sester, a protocol by Elis Themas, and an extract was made by Elis Themas. [[The President]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U340	Mr Sults, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, there are no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U341	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U342	Here you go! I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. There are two amendments to the draft. Let's go through them. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the position of the commission is to take account of the substance, i.e. amendment 1 has been considered, where this issue has also been reflected. We have examined the amendments and examined draft 794 at second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U343	Let's go to item 18. Second reading of Bill 795 amending the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please speak to the Chair of the Economic Commission, Mr Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U344	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the second reading of Bill 795, the Bill amending the Accounting Act. This specific draft law was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 January 2019. The first reading took place in plenary on 23 January. The first reading was completed. The aim is to achieve an obligation in the public sector to use machine-processing, i.e. e-invoices, for billing purposes. The Economic Commission discussed draft law 795 at its two meetings on 31 January and 11 February. During the meeting, the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and procedural decisions were taken. Several parties participated in the meetings: Deputy Secretary General of Administrative Policy of the Ministry of Finance Raigo Uukkivi, Head Specialist of the Department of Public Administration and Public Service Keir Pool and Director General of Statistics Estonia Mart Mägi. The bill is technically and linguisticly organised in the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. The language editor's comments are already included in the text of the draft. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was at 4 p.m. on 25 January 2019. An amendment was submitted to the commission for consideration by the Ministry of Finance and a second proposal was submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs in the light of the language editor's comments. Decisions on amendments were taken by the Commission by vote and are included in the list of amendments. I would point out that all decisions (there were two) were taken in a consensual manner. There were no problems in that sense. We also made procedural decisions. Firstly, to send the draft to the plenary by 13 February (this was a consensus decision), to propose the termination of the second reading (the same as the consensus decision) and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to the third reading by 20 February and to conclude the final vote on the draft on the same 20 February (they were also consensus decisions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U345	Thank you, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs. You have at least one question. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U346	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! With regard to this bill, would you specify the obligations of the entrepreneur account holder, whether it is also obliged to submit e-invoices to the public and to the public sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U347	Thank you. This is the question I myself, as the Commission's leader, addressed to the initiators of the draft, mainly the Vice-Chancellor, who defended these positions. My question was specifically related to the business account. The current situation is that the draft law itself clarifies this regulation that all bookholders are obliged to submit e-invoices, but the owner of the business account is not an accounting person. This is, you could say, essentially the only form of enterprise in which there is no obligation to start reporting to any institution and there is no obligation to submit e-invoicing in this regard. However, in the course of the discussion at the Commission, all parties came to the conclusion that, if the owner of an entrepreneur account wishes to bill the state, for example, he has won some kind of offer or sells some kind of service or goods, he has the opportunity to do so by means of an e-invoicer created by the RiK, he is able to do so comfortably, free of charge, etc., but he has no obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U348	Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. There are two amendments to the draft, both from the lead committee. Let's go through them. First amendment, second amendment. We have examined the amendments. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U349	Let's go to item 19. Second reading of the Trade Mark Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on the Foundations of Industrial Property Law and the Act amending other laws 793. Please speak to Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U350	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! As you have already noticed, the Committee on Economic Affairs had a very busy day on 31 January, and the decisions we made were all such, despite the fact that the soul might have wanted to celebrate the birthday of Sex Pistols singer Johnny Rotten or Hendrik Sal-Saller. But now to our protocol. Sven Sester was present, Toomas Kivimägi, Erki Savisaar, Märt Sults, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Annaliisa Jume, who was our consultant, Kaido Rosin, our advisor-secretary director, Marin Daniel, who is our advisor, and Piia Schults. There was no Arto Aas, no Jaanus Marrand, no Kristen Michal, no Peeter Ernits. Gea Lepik, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Ministry of Justice, was also present. Arto Aas spoke very accurately about the trademark law vol. 1st. There were six amendments. The first amendments were of a technical nature, designed to make everything compatible. One amendment has been made to ensure peace for everyone so that by the time all jurisdiction goes to Harju County Court, the on-the-spot procedure will still work. Yes, from 1 April, it is not the case that all disputes initiated on the ground, which have taken place in other courts of the country, are closed there either, so that the dispute is halfway transferred to the Harju County Court. Then came the procedural decisions, and they were like that. We have a proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda today (this was consensual), to propose that the second reading of the draft be stopped (this was also consensual), and a third proposal is to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed, 20 February being the date, as already discussed. Fourthly, we propose a final vote on the draft, which was also a consensual decision. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U351	Questions for the waitress. There aren't any. Thank you, Tarmo Kruusimäe! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Six amendments have been tabled to bill 793; they are all from the commission and, of course, taken into account. Let's go through them. First, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth. The second reading of bill 793 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U352	Second reading of the draft Act amending the Port Act and the Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Waitress of the Economic Commission, Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U353	Ladies and gentlemen, The Port Act and the Liquid Fuel Act were initiated by the Government of the Republic m. a on 17 December. The first reading took place on 15 January and the deadline for submitting amendments; by 22 January no amendments were received from the Riigikogu on the draft. As you will note, when it was initially a draft port law, another law has now been added here, which is also being amended by this same bill, namely the law on liquid fuel. Since the first part of the draft, or port law, concerns only the regulations of the directive that Estonia needs to transpose, and it concerns only port authorities, who are only a few in the sphere of influence of this law, there is not much reason to stop on this side of the draft law. However, it is important to talk about the liquid fuel law, which has in the meantime been included here in the form of amendments by the initiator, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who is the representative of the government, or the initiator of the draft. Part of the Liquid Fuel Act concerns the addition of certain bio-additions. As we know, as of 1 May 2018, Estonia has an obligation to add bio-additions to fuel. Until April of this year, this requirement was 3.1% for conventional fuel, 6.4% from there and 10% from January next year. In order for ladies and gentlemen to understand how this is happening, I will say that there are two options. One option is that each litre of fuel has a certain percentage of bio-additions in it. The second option is to fulfil this obligation by delivering statistics. Perhaps those companies that are left with the so-called biofuels will be able to give it to those who lack it. This is also provided for by the Liquid Fuel Act, which we already have, which is stated in § 22 of the Liquid Fuel Act. The technical implementation has revealed that it is not actually possible to transfer statistics. This has proved to be a problem. That is why the initiator, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, proposed that such an error of imprecise use of the concept be corrected, insofar as, as I have already said, it hinders the substantive implementation of the law. The reason is that the law on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electrical excise duties on the authorisation of fuel consumption does not regulate the authorisation of biomethane for consumption, so biomethane cannot be used to comply with the above agreement. The amendment to the Law on liquid fuel concerns biomethane. At the same time, the quantities of biomethane produced and used in transport in Estonia are sufficient to participate in this agreement, to pass on these certificates and to comply with this obligation. It was therefore envisaged that the law should be clarified and that the technical contradiction between the Act on Excise Duties and the Law on Liquid Fuels should be eliminated. This is certainly an issue affecting certain market players. When the parties were informed that such an amendment to the Liquid Fuel Act was planned through the pending Port Act, a number of market participants (Circle K Eesti AS, Olerex AS and law firm Sorainen) received protest letters stating that this should not be done. There were a whole series of arguments. It's self-evident. The law has conceptual inaccuracies, the law needs to be read very accurately, but each undertaking has certain costs, has its own plans, and any change in the law certainly affects them and confuses them a little. The discussion around this amendment took place mainly on 11 February when we dissected letters from fuel companies. The Commission also had Rein Vaks and Timo Tatar, officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who actually rejected these claims. The main reason the fuel companies pointed out was that such a transfer of statistics is not acceptable at all, or that it is possible that in every litre of fuel, it must be an additive. At the same time, the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications (I also mentioned this section here) pointed out that in § 22 of the Act already in force, this regulation on the transfer of statistics actually exists, so it is not appropriate for these companies to claim that they are not aware that this is the way in which this obligation to add biofuels can be fulfilled. After discussions, the members of the Commission reached a fairly common view that such an amendment would be sensible, that it would be favourable to fuel prices, also to fuel quality, and that it would encourage the production of domestic biofuels. On the basis of these circumstances, it was decided to support the amendment of the Liquid Fuel Act together with the amendment of the Port Act, as proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. All the decisions were consensual. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by this day, 13 February, to propose that the second reading be stopped, and when the second reading is completed, it is proposed to refer the draft to the third reading by 20 February. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U354	Questions for the waitress. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U355	Thank you. As you could understand, in the course of the procedure, the draft came upon itself a new piece of law which had nothing to do with the original draft. The whole debate about the fuel market and biomethane is a completely different opera than the original objective of the Port Act, which we are not talking about here today and hardly spoke about in the Commission either. How do you feel about this behaviour of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in line with good legislative practice if we add another piece of draft legislation to the draft at second reading, without any intention, involvement and impact assessment, and we have a short week to adopt it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U356	How can I say, it is certainly not a good lawmaking practice, but we discussed it in the Commission, you yourself were present at this committee sitting, and when we considered all the facts, we reached a relatively unambiguous consensus conclusion, at least no one else expressed a different opinion, that this is not a good thing, but, to say the least, it is not the worst solution either. For citizens, consumers, this is a sensible solution and the technical error or problem that has arisen can be solved. It's not a good thing, but it's not the worst solution either. Indeed, deadlines have fallen, the liquid fuel law needs to be implemented, and if there is a contradiction between the definitions of the Liquid Fuel Act and the Excise Tax Act, it is best to bring clarity to the house and the sooner it is done, the better. This also led to the decision of this committee, at least that is how I have read the minutes and understood the debate, and so I have reported to you here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U357	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U358	Thank you. There's a lot of confusion, though. When this proposal was first presented, everyone had the impression that this was a minor technical change. It was only at the beginning of this week, on Monday, at the end of the Commission meeting, that we started going into the content of what this amendment to the Law on liquid fuel really means. It turned out that this is not a technical change, it is a very important change with great impact. We had a nice and interesting discussion with the representatives of the ministry, but there were no market participants at the table, those affected by this proposal. Indeed, their views are extremely different and we have not been able to find out the full clarity and truth within two days. Does it still, like, deserve to be rushed like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U359	In fact, we also had this discussion at the committee meeting, and the chairman of the committee made it very clear to the officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that they would give very clear answers to these appeals. It is certainly regrettable that such a conceptual confusion has arisen, that is clear. However, it was also clear to all parties at the Commission meeting that time would not wait. In fact, as I pointed out here at the beginning, the addition of bio-additions to fuel is constantly increasing, and in order to meet these requirements, it is reasonable and, by the way, with regard to fuel quality, it is reasonable to be able to move and sell these statistics. That makes sense in itself. It is difficult to see today how this conceptual disagreement between the excise law and liquid fuel has arisen. I tried to pass on the discussion very simply and easily. In fact, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also communicated with the Ministry of Finance in order to solve this problem more easily. But the debate between us has revealed that it is not so simple and that it still needs to be clarified. Now this is it. As I said, it is not, of course, the best practice of legislation that one law amends another, but, to say the least, it makes sense, in this situation, to do so as quickly as possible, because the exchange of fuel certificates needs to be launched and has to work, just as the idea of the law on liquid fuel is. As long as statistics cannot be passed on, this law does not work like the legislator, that is, we ourselves here and the initiator, or government, had thought about this. Therefore, correction of errors is undoubtedly necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U360	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U361	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I find it regrettable that we continue to have this practice in the committees. Officials may be admonished, but there is still such practice that subjects from a different field are grafted on to draft laws. That's what makes the Riigikogu a rubber stamp. I got what you were saying after all, that it was neither good nor bad, that there was a lack of planning for development, that for some reason was rushed, and in the end, in the liquid fuel law, there is this possibility, as you said, this statistical calculation of biomethane. Why do we need to do this now? Why couldn't it wait to come up with a bill in its own right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U362	Thank you for your question. I actually tried to explain it, but I can do it again, of course. Indeed, in the Liquid Fuel Act there is such a possibility to transfer statistics. However, it cannot be put on the market within the meaning of the Act on Excise Duties. For the purposes of the Excise Act, it is a funny thing that goods with zero excise duty must be placed on the market through an excise warehouse, but there is no biomethane excise warehouse. There was this conceptual argument. In order for biomethane to enter the market, as required by the liquid fuel law, it was necessary to do so. That's one thing. The second question is why it was done so quickly that there was an intention to develop. There was an intention to develop, and there was a liquid fuel law. As I pointed out at the very beginning of my report, there are two ways to add a bio-addition. It was all planned. One option is that it is added to each litre of fuel, now this requirement is 3.1% or what it is and it will rise to 10% next year, by the way. The other method is, if anyone has an excess, you're using clean fuel, but you're buying the rest of somebody's stats. Basically, it's launching this liquid fuel law, like it really is. That's the point. This is urgent because indeed, in fact, this option already works from 1 January. There are first-generation and second-generation biomixtures. From 1 January we must have some sort of, I can't remember it by heart, but quite a significant percentage of adding second generation of bio-additions, or fuel made from waste. Biomethane is precisely the fuel from waste. As a rule, it is made of cellulose processing waste, it is done in Kunda, and it is also fuel made from animal husbandry residues from cattle slurry, manure and silage. So in this sense, it's urgent, it needs to be able to get going. If this had not been done now, it should have been taken into account that it would take several months for the new Riigikogu to start and new ministers to come, but the time will come. This is not beneficial for consumers. Bio-additions can be bought from abroad, I suggest that Poland, for example, where producers earn from it, or wherever. Today, biomethane is a matter of our own biomagnification. It is good for our own manufacturers and, in fact, it is good for the quality of the fuel, I say. Not every litre of this bio-addition is available, but statistics are being purchased, for example, through cars driven by gas on the market. So in this sense, he is useful and it makes no sense to wait a third of a year for the law to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U363	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U364	Thank you. A pretty good and thorough explanation, that's all I understand. But we are in a situation where, instead of amending the port law, we are talking about a completely different subject, and this thing was supposed to start at the beginning of this year. I understand that there will now be a forced break in the work of the Riigikogu, etc. But where were the officials before, and why didn't they do this work last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U365	Thank you for introducing this motive. We had these same issues discussed in the Commission. Consultations have taken place with the Ministry of Finance on whether biomethane in this form can be called fuel that can be delivered. Clarifying the definitions of the Excise Act and the Liquid Fuel Act at the Ministry of Finance, all these coordinations between ministries, as you know, have taken time. I'm sure it's regrettable that it's gone this way, and I'm a hundred percent in agreement. But the real situation is this, and we have the choice that the law will not work as planned, as you have pointed out beautifully, just as the initial intentions and analyses, the intention to develop and other things envisaged. If the law does not work like this, it will still be more sensible to eliminate this problem as soon as possible and to do everything possible to ensure that this law works as originally planned. This road is paved with good intentions. I don't know what else to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U366	No more questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U367	Hello again! On the opposition side, I would like to express my frustration that, once again, good legislative practice is only one word that we do not respect in reality. When we see in some laws that a jacket is sewn on the button, there is now a radiator sewn on the button or something that has nothing to do with the original bill. The amendment to the Port Act and the Liquid Fuel Act is entirely different from the planets and there is no connection here. We don't really like that. The law firm has already written in black on white, how such a procedure violates the law of the Riigikogu's own home and working procedures, good lawmaking practice and everything that we consider so important here. If, between two readings, there are no amendments in the 12th hour, where there is no impact analysis, no market participants' assessments, nor at least I have not been able to see them, I do not think they are the opinion of the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Finance, how do we deal with these matters? This amendment to the Law on Liquid Fuels, which we are grafting into here, has a number of times more impact than this amendment to the Port Act. That's not the way things are done. The price of liquid fuel affects all of us, consumers, entrepreneurs, all of us. This has a huge impact on the economy. They come and say it's all irrelevant, but when you start asking questions, it turns out that there's still a very complicated and multifaceted world back there where not everyone understands things in the same way. I can assure you that these claims that two years ago, when the law was passed, all parties understood the same thing, are not true. Market participants say that they remember the agreement differently: then there was no mention of biomethane, that it could be traded statistically. So this party to the procedure is certainly a problem and we should not introduce this practice in the Riigikogu. In the case of a draft with such an important impact, we do not actually know exactly what we are deciding here and what its effects are. Very large and respectable organisations have approached us with letters of concern. It was about the procedural side. I would certainly have liked us to have had time in the Commission to invite us to the table, too, I do not know, the Minister and the various parties, and to find out the truth. Today, I don't think we know the truth. The other side is substantive, which is also unclear. We have an agreement with the European Union or, as if, an obligation to mix biofuels with fuel. It now turns out that perhaps some companies or organisations will not be obliged to do so because they are dealing with biomethane, which is a subsidised business, a completely different market, in a completely different business. We're dodging biomethane producers, we've helped build gas stations. It's a whole other business, it's a subsidy business, and everyone doesn't want to be in it. The logical question also arises: if we are already helping one sector, is it right that this subsidised business will somehow affect other markets, the so-called traditional fuel market, where there is very fierce competition and where every cent is on the books. These substantive issues remained unresolved in the Commission during the proceeding. You can't ask anyone today. They say it's urgent. Well, is it? The laws and obligations apply anyway, and the fact that somebody somewhere, I don't know, did some kind of fingertips in the department a few years ago doesn't mean we're supposed to break our own rules here. I'll ask for a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U368	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U369	So we don't really do this kind of thing, we don't know exactly what the effects of this bill are. We cannot say whether this is necessarily wrong, but the amendment to the law on liquid fuel has nothing to do with the port law. Between two readings, such changes should not be made quickly. That's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U370	There was no proposal and no further requests. Two amendments to the draft proposal for 780 have been tabled by the lead committee. The first and second amendments. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U371	I would like to vote on the first amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U372	Got it. Mr Riigikogu, the President has a procedural question for Kristen Michal, Vice-Chairman of the Honourable Reform Party Group. It sounds like this: had the leadership of the group made an urgent request to the MP, Arto Asa, to decide what to vote and what not to vote on on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U373	I can assure you that this was also a decision by the Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U374	Thank you. Dear Riigikogu, we are discussing draft 780. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has been fully taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There are 30 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the amendment and 12 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was supported. Amendment 2 is from the Committee on Economic Affairs. As there are no other proposals, the second reading of draft 780 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U375	Next on our agenda is the second reading of the draft law on heritage conservation initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Commission's rapporteur is Mr Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U376	Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is, as they say, a long-made beauty. The first reading of this draft took place on 29 September 2018. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 10 October 2018, the Estonian Free Party Group tabled two amendments, which are listed under numbers 1 and 43. The Commission itself, after lengthy and interesting negotiations with stakeholders, formulated 55 other amendments, sought compromises and sought optimal wording. I cannot fail to point out that the law on the protection of the heritage was, in fact, also discussed at first reading, or that there was a law that would never receive the unanimous support of the whole people, because there are different interest groups and they have different interests, which at times are quite contradictory. There is one more moment: it is possible to solve all the issues of interest when it comes to a very rich country that pays for everything, but it turned out completely unexpectedly that we are not so rich that the country can simply pay for everything or sometimes, apologize, overpay and compensate. My training practice says that sometimes, when you listen carefully, you can even talk over time, at least at university, but at the same time you have to look at the auditorium and when you see that the auditorium is very tired, you have to stop right away. Today, I'm gonna start talking when the auditorium is very tired, but I'm still trying to make the point. There is a lot of information in the explanatory memorandum, and anyone who wants to delve or has already gotten worse will, fortunately, receive support from it. First of all, however, I must introduce what is changing compared to the law in force in the Law on Heritage Protection and, as stakeholders claim, is largely better. It is always the opinion of some stakeholders that more is needed, but that is why. First of all, general principles have been formulated, which must be based on all parties involved. In essence, these are values and provide a framework for the overall activities of the Agency. All laws and reliefs must be in accordance with the general principles, not in such a way that a bit in the same direction or a little bit in the opposite direction. Much was said about the issue of special conditions for heritage conservation. At present, the special conditions are ordered by the owner and paid by the architect himself, and subsequently granted by the State without remuneration to the owner. At present there have been some 280 issues per year and it was said that the owner will be costing an average of 3000 euros, i.e. Harju's average. So it should be important for the state to help. Thirdly, there are more flexible ways of restricting and mitigating sites. According to the current law, relief can only be given to species of monuments of history and archaeology, and it was now formulated for all species of monuments. In determining the limits, consideration must be given to what works and activities will need to be regulated in the future on this site and which restrictions may be waived at all. There is no point in imposing restrictions just in case that we may be forbidding something in advance. According to the draft, when sites are protected, they will assess the preconditions for national protection, i.e. on the basis of methodological assessment materials and criteria drawn up on the site, their value and justification for granting protection will be assessed. Under the current law, the characteristics of this particular site were simply described, but no objective criteria were considered or compared with other sites of the same species. So there must be more commitment and expertise. Fifth, the designation of the protection zone. According to the current law, it is assigned to all sites, and according to the draft it will in any case be considered whether a protection zone is needed. The protection zone can be divided into parts with different restrictions. I remember that many, many years ago, there was a big dispute over the same subject when some found that sheep should not eat grass around the sacrificial stone, because maybe it would damage it. Sixth, the assignment of ancient surveillance. According to the current law, it is mandatory to determine it whenever a monument is preserved, restored, construction works are carried out. In any event, however, the draft requires consideration as to whether monitoring is necessary if the work is carried out in accordance with a previously approved action plan. Compared to economic matters, it can be said that it is roughly the same that, if there is a budget, whether funding needs to be analysed for everything. We're talking about monitoring here, not money. The seventh important thing that changes is doing work. For example, according to the law in force, there are restrictions everywhere on logging and excavation, without permission. According to the draft, the prohibition is only necessary for the preservation of the matter, for example in the case of archaeological monuments and historic natural shrines. Eight, part of the work is enough to be notified. There was a lot of talk and debate about this. For example, archaeologists also had this mind and almost to the last minute defended that since archaeological research on the substance destroys the ancient wasle, when they have dug through it and become wise, there is nothing left to do with it, it must certainly be done with the permit procedure. After a proper series of discussions and discussions with them, they too came to the conclusion that, if these action plans have all passed through them and their appointed top specialists, even though strict control is required, it may not be necessary to double the check, and they are gentle. At first, there was fear that something might go wrong, but this principle also found their consent. At the time, there was still a great deal of controversy over financial compensation as to what financial compensation should be required to cover the costs of research and heritage monitoring. There is no such compensation in the current law because it was found that this protection is almost a patriotic obligation, we are all defending. In the new law, that compensation is. Although all exemptions are a very dangerous issue, it was nevertheless considered that this compensation could be exempt, for the simple reason that it is not a person but an object that is protected and wanted to be preserved. It is also important that the University of Tartu has just pointed out the use of a search tool, all these large detectorists, etc., that it is a bit like predatory archeology. These are the points we specified that there would be a check. There was another issue that has always been the difference between "orthodox" or "maximal" heritage conservationists and pragmatists. That's how long the object will be protected. On the one hand, the National Heritage Board first found that if an object is taken into heritage protection, if there is even a theoretical chance of restoring it, it will remain under heritage protection and do not touch it. Members of the Commission, though the Chancellor of Justice, thought that if there is a little bit left of the old manor stable and the construction of the new stable would simply be 18 times cheaper than making the old repeat and the stable does not have a very large cultural value, then there must be an opportunity to remove it from the heritage protection. This was supported by the Chancellor of Justice and several members of the Commission were behind this proposal. It is also regulated in the direction of pragmatics. More general conceptual approaches. There was a lot of talk about the general principles of heritage conservation. In a so-called general concept, this European tradition of heritage seems sympathetic, that, when it comes to historic buildings, the first priority is that this building must live and be operational and, secondly, that it must be kept as original as possible. Sometimes it's been said the other way around that be as original as possible, we put him in a glass box. But then one simple thing comes out: the building will be preserved when it lives and works. So there are new approaches in this sense. There are still a number of developments that have come from stakeholders. It's an access problem. There must be access to the values of heritage; there must be no way that you can hear or see from far away; there must also be access to them by a disabled person. Another question is whether the very old historic buildings that have to live for me personally have gone to the heart of Tartu Town Hall, for example, must be an elevator in order for them to live. Yeah, there's gotta be an elevator, 'cause then he's a town hall, and then this building works and stays. There were a number of proposals that had come from stakeholders and which, however, were not taken into account. A large part of them were that these problems were resolved during the negotiations with stakeholders. Now I feel awkward that I'm not going to read them all unless there are questions. If there are any questions, I have to read it out, but I want to generalize a little bit and slip over. They're all well written in explanatory notes. I would say once again that we had many meetings with stakeholders in the Commission. This list, which I also failed to read, is very representative and versatile. On the other hand, on all the sharp things that remained up, we had a conversation, I, and the other members of the Commission, with these people. Although it is said that it is difficult to commend those present, but that I do not feel the way I would like to talk about my winnings at a late hour or something, I particularly want to congratulate Mrs Berg, who is a significantly better schoolteacher than I am. When we met representatives of interest groups, I wanted to make it clear that this is the right thing or something, then Angelika helped, she explained to archaeologists what archeology was, so they later agreed with us and concluded that they would do some things differently, but this bill is still much better than the current law. There's another thing. Nothing is final truth, in other words, a new Riigikogu will come, a new Committee on Culture will come, and they will probably start collecting amendments in the basket again. And the law of heritage protection, which always gets better and better when we get richer, is likely to have some practical improvements that life has dictated itself in a year-and-a-half. I probably didn't say anything important. However, maybe it is important to say before we start voting on the amendments, that there really were such disputes that at first the world was like a real one. One such question, for example, was the question of the name, how to name the structural unit that deals with the national heritage issues in the Ministry of Culture. As it is planned to merge heritage and museum agencies, it was found that there could be a common name for 'cultural heritage agency'. A strong objection came from the heritage defence community, claiming that abandoning the word'heritage conservation' would be like denying some part of our national culture. You remember that the heritage movement came out in public first with three separate flags, blue, black and white, etc. These disputes ended by the fact that the concept of a cultural heritage agency was considered to be more European, more modern, maybe it is, but then another thing happened. We started translating back and forth into English, and then it turned out that cultural hermitage has her either way, hermitage protection. If you translate either 'Multiple Heritage' or 'Cultural Heritage' into English, listen, that's exactly what comes out. Finally, we also had a compromise proposal tabled by the Free Party Group that, if you do not agree in any way, we will take something from both. At the moment, it seems that the Commission has decided, and I think that perhaps even all the parties have said that it does not matter what colour the cat is, as long as it catches the mice, and I therefore call on you to support the Commission's proposal to stick to the name of the National Heritage Board. Another serious question was that builders and heritageists always have different interests. The builders found that this law does not take all their fears down. I have met these representatives myself many times and talked long and hard, most recently Sunday nights or late at night. We reached the point that they agreed that they would do differently, but they would accept a well-established text. The only place where differences remained was their belief that these heritage officials could still not be trusted. Whether you trust someone or not is not the task of the law. Siim Raie, head of the National Heritage Board, said that yes, it is a problem, must be explained more, opened, etc. The very last point that emerged in the discussions was that the law on heritage conservation can be complicated. This means that the National Heritage Board has at least a moral obligation It takes away fears that, fortunately, are largely unwarranted. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U377	Questions for the waitress. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, Chairman of the Commission. Here's a question about the compatibility with the construction code, it was left out of the bill. Please explain the situation that has arisen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U379	Indeed, it is the law of heritage conservation that connects with quite a number of laws, especially the construction code. Basically, the last consultations led to the result that if any problems are precisely and well fixed in the building code, we will try to follow it. It is or should be indicated in the explanatory memorandum. In particular, if we hope that if there is an executive edition, these proved to be simple and clear, there will be no difference. We've borrowed principles from the building code. So we tried to rake out the contradiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U380	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U381	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your performance, the principle that buildings under heritage protection must also be accessible to people who are not perhaps the most capable of climbing any stairs without handrails etc. sounded very well in my ears. Does this mean that in these buildings, however, it is now possible to place handrails, for example, even though they were not originally there? What does that mean in practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U382	This is, indeed, what we have been talking about in the Commission. On this subject, we have also consulted individual heritage conservation officials. The principle is, as stated in the conversation with Siim Raie, that the heritage protection continues to fight against a Gothic-style building being placed on an outside orange and yellow tube for the elevator. No, it's not. The general principle is that the innovations must be compatible with the original and have as little damage as possible. Well, everyone has their own standards. For me, the measure was the Town Hall of Tartu. They said they supported the fact that there had to be an elevator and that it would not be painted orange, but it would remain in the same gamma as the main tones of the building.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U383	Thank you, good waitress. The Committee on the Environment also discussed the law on heritage conservation. One of the important issues concerned natural sanctuarys and the introduction of additional restrictions in such a way that it would not be compensated for by the landowner. We also proposed this. I'm sure you discussed that. Where did you get to?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U384	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U385	It was one of the most serious issues. The theme of natural shrines is that in the past, natural shrines were enshrined in the law as archaeological monuments, archaeologists opposed it because, quite often, these sites have little to do with archaeology, and in a whole series of cases, it has been documented that some natural shrines have emerged in the so-called late tradition. Something like that, if there was ever a geodetic sign under extreme protection under the 1825 ukase in the manor, which was used for mapping, and if someone broke that crucifixion, it was punished, but later the grandmothers have talked about it more or less as Lembitu would have gone to the moor. But these things are still for professionals to solve. We consulted on a number of issues. For example, if this place needs to be managed on an equal footing with what is provided for in the Nature Conservation Act, then perhaps it could be brought under the rule of that law at all. It is quite difficult to do that under the Heritage Protection Act there are parts of objects where compensation is made, and next to them there are parts of objects where, however, it has been found that the state does not have this power and capacity. Compensating under the Heritage Protection Act is more modest than under the Nature Conservation Act. But for some reason, no one wanted to have natural sanctuarys within the scope of another law. In many places, at least the principle of rationality has been introduced, it is not the case that if there is a natural sanctuary, then this ban will apply there. That's what I actually tried to mention, I spoke too briefly, so that the bans would be well localized, not so that if one tree is protected, the forest should not be cut. It is a compromise solution, both the Commission and all the parties were of the opinion that further work on the subject was needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U386	Thank you, Aadu Black! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U387	Good people interested in heritage conservation! Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! I'm mostly in agreement with Aadu. Why did I want to come here today? I think we have done quite a lot of work in the Committee on Culture. I would also like to begin by thanking our good officials, led by Angelika, for my part. But I'll go on from here. Indeed, the draft law has been dealt with for a long time. I personally went to work at the Ministry of Culture in 2012 and that is when the work started. It's taken years. I think that what we sometimes hear is a lot of fiery heritageists, but there are also those who have found that there have been too strict restrictions, and then there is this question of trust, too, this criticism really applies to the law in force. This draft is designed to come to today and to build more trust in that direction, which we have now formulated in the Riigikogu, in particular, by means of amendments, that the preservation of heritage is a shared duty between the owner and the state. We have also formulated that this public interest, the obligation enshrined in our constitution to preserve cultural goods, and also the private interest of the owner, must still be monitored. The principles of reasonableness and proportionality must be taken into account. I think these are important things. That is really a move forward. Maybe a few more things I want to put out and prove it. It's the same as giving people with disabilities access to special needs. Certainly, if such a thing is in law, it will provide the basis for a future move towards an inclusive environment, of which these old houses are also part. There are so many memories, aren't there, and only about 5,000 of them are buildings. It was just information for you. There are also many other monuments, but there are often problems with buildings. As an architect, I may have been embarrassed that the more time goes on, the more I like old houses. Perhaps this is also one of the reasons why I wanted to take the floor today. In reality, there is no conflict here. What we're defending is the creation of our former colleagues, these monuments are all created by someone. I think that in the future, if we can move in the direction of increasing trust between officials, heritage conservationists and professionals and those who live and carry on in these buildings, we will take a step forward. There's one more thing we can talk about. I think the country could shake a shit out of its head here. That is the example we set. State-owned monuments, can we manage them well enough? Too often do we not prefer mediocre or worse new buildings instead of fixing sites? Let's take a super ministry example, unfortunately. Architect Rem Koolhaas has also said that protecting monuments in a sense is the fight against mediocrity in modern architecture. How many objects are there today that you think will be protected in 200 years? What, then, will be seen from the current buildings built with public money in Estonia? I'm about to get a college in Narva. But why did the Narva College building become the way it is today? There too, heritage conservation played a role, where architects and heritageists worked very well together, and I think that an object was created that will continue to be protected. I hope this bill goes through, I hope it gets your support. Perhaps I can afford a specialist's view. This bill is certainly better than the law in force. I believe our dignified legacy will be better protected. On the issue of the name, I also discovered a certain degree of conservativeness in myself and support this old version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U388	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U389	Ladies and gentlemen, I really welcome this bill. It has been dealt with in a very long and thorough manner. I thank the Commission and everyone involved very much for having come to this second reading as it is. Why is he important? He is the first complete text where heritage-protected buildings take into account people with disabilities, precisely so that they can access these buildings. This is a very important starting point for people who, for various reasons, cannot use buildings accessible to ordinary citizens to still have access to our cultural goods in the future. Examples have already been given here, but I say that one bad example is the same Riigikogu building. He's restored, he's a historic power center, but he's not very accessible to people with disabilities. I hope that sometime in the distant future, when the Riigikogu has a new building, it will certainly be taken into account. This has to be taken into account, because the laws are already like this, and it cannot be overlooked. Some very good things were mentioned in the previous reports. For example, the fact that the restoration of heritage-protected buildings does not always have to have simple solutions; the restoration of these buildings may also be an effort. Similarly, it must be possible to give access to persons with disabilities, which must be achieved through sharp contrasts, such as new and old contrasts, in order to be clearly distinguishable, which is old and which has been added to enable accessibility. Such solutions are possible and can certainly be done in the future. I would like to thank once again the organisers of this process or the promoters of this draft. I hope that this is how he will get to third reading and that people with disabilities will know that they have been taken into account this time. I would also like to mention, of course, that the inclusion of people with disabilities in the Commission has been added. That is what I want to thank the Commission for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U390	Please, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U391	Good ambassadors! When we talk about the meaning of the law, it is possible to go two principally different ways here: we are either based on the fact that cultural heritage, an object under heritage protection, is the honor and concern of the owner, or on the fact that this honor and concern is part of both the owner and the state. The Isamaa party is based on the fact that it is in the interests of the owners and the state to preserve objects under heritage protection. The fate of this law has not been easy. It is important to acknowledge the Ministry of Culture that they have been involved in preparing and formalising the draft for several years in a row, but I must also say that if the Ministry of Culture had not just formally asked for the views of the other parties but wanted to actually take these views into account, the current text would perhaps be different and perhaps better. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I was startled by a situation where, according to the Ministry, the draft was more or less ready and all the parties were invited to the public hearing, and then it turned out that most of the parties were not absolutely satisfied with the text proposed at the time. Amendments were requested by the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, the Estonian Owners' Confederation, the representative of Hinn Farm Ott Rätsep, the Estonian Heritage Society, as well as the Chancellor of Justice and others. To date, the text has changed a lot. I'll bring out a few positive things. First, general principles have been formulated (Article 3 of the draft), which must be followed by all parties. In essence, these are values and provide a framework for the Agency's activities. All limitations and mitigations shall be consistent with the general principles. Secondly, the issuing of special conditions for heritage conservation. At present, the special conditions are ordered by the owner and paid by the architect himself, and subsequently granted by the State without remuneration to the owner. Thirdly, financial compensation to support the costs of research and heritage monitoring. There is no such compensation in the current law. This benefit is exempt from income tax. Another important nuance: apart from the maintenance support, which is also in the current law, there is an additional opportunity to receive support from the Property Reform Fund and this support is exempt from income tax. It is clear that the implementation of the new law will in many ways continue to depend on the activities of the officials of the National Heritage Board, but the owners will be able to follow the law to ensure that decisions are considered, justified and transparent and based on the values described in the Heritage Protection Act. However, there are still some problems. There is still an unsolved problem caused by existing sites that were protected by 'lists'. Most of these buildings were protected more than 20 years ago and not coordinated with their owners, and in many cases the assessments and justifications for granting protection have still not been prepared. I will bring a quote from the owner of one of the protected objects: 'The work must be done in agreement with the owner, or coordinated with him. Without such an agreement, the demands of officials are arbitrary. Without an agreement, fine is arbitrary because the owner cannot be punished for an act of which he is unaware. Any authorisation obligation will only arise if the owner wishes to change differently from the site. " The opinion of the Fatherland is that the explanatory memorandum could certainly fix the proposal of the Owners' Confederation to carry out an impact assessment on the sites. This could be discussed in the future if a real impact assessment methodology is available. The amendment tabled by the Chancellor of Justice, which was essentially taken into account, must also be marked, but we believe that it could be fully supported. Indeed, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to end the status of the site on the grounds of rationality and the fact that the site will otherwise be destroyed should be fully supported. Another problematic point is Amendment 55, according to which the existing statutes of the heritage reserve will be brought into line with the new law within four years 'plus time for administrative proceedings and litigation'. For the Fatherland, this is a matter of principle. We do not agree with the compromise proposed, because four years is a disproportionately long time. In other words, restrictions which are not in accordance with the law and which concern tens of thousands of owners of buildings located in the heritage reserve or in its protection zone will remain in force for four years. The claim that two years is too short a time was made with such an idea came out of the Ministry of Culture was barely spoken. In practice, the Agency has revised the statutes of the heritage reserve more quickly. The Fatherland's view is that within two years of the entry into force of the Act, the statutes of the heritage reserve must be brought into line with the law. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U392	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U393	It can be accepted that a longer period is possible if the alignment is prolonged due to litigation. Another important aspect is the name of the Agency. The Isamaa Group considers that by the term heritage conservation we also understand museums. We believe that once the law is passed, the National Heritage Board should remain the name. In Fatherland, there are a number of suggestions on how this bill can be made better and more humane in relation to the owner. For example, we propose that § 33 (3) of the draft be amended and worded as follows: 'In order to ensure the integrity of the monument and heritage reserve, the owner or keeper of the monument or building located in the heritage reserve must maintain the monument or building to a reasonable degree, repair, if necessary, and, when planning and carrying out works, comply with the requirements laid down in this Act. ' I'll explain. This is a clarification based on the constitutional principle of proportionality (Article 11 of the Constitution). According to this, in order to limit the fundamental rights of citizens, the aim and means of action must be materially balanced. For this reason, every citizen is given a firm balance over his or her public farming obligation, which is made disproportionate by overcoming the restriction. This amendment expresses the legislator's willingness to take account of the constitutional principle of proportionality when restricting the fundamental rights of the owner of immovable property. Finally. Heritage protection, the protection of all our cultural heritage, is only feasible if there is understanding and cooperation between the owner and the state, not the attitude that an official is smarter and able to require the owner to preserve a common heritage. It's in all our interests. As we see room for improvement in this law, the party of Isamaa is proposing that the second reading be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U394	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U395	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good people interested in heritage conservation! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Culture very much. The processing of this bill in the Committee on Culture was very intense, but also very educational, because we met many interest groups, we listened to the National Heritage Board, we listened to the Ministry, we argued among ourselves and we listened to the proposals of all the groups. Unfortunately, the proposals of the Isamaa Group, as Viktoria has now read very clearly, did not reach us in this form of the Commission. I guess we'd have had a good fight about them, too. Heritage protection is an area where there is certainly a major contradiction in the fact that it is unbalanced. On the one hand, it is really in the public interest to preserve, to preserve everything that characterizes and carries our own history, and on the other hand, it is the interests of the owners. Finding the right line between these imbalances has been one of the major issues of history, one of the major problems. There are many reasons for this. On the one hand, there are financial reasons. The financial opportunities of the owner are certainly almost always limited and the country is also limited, on the other hand there is certainly a question of what, how and how much needs to be preserved. Sometimes it seems to the owner that it is incomprehensible why such restrictions are imposed. Here, I dare say, is one of the problems that the National Heritage Board must certainly correct, it is with the human being, talking to the owner, explaining, also discussing the matter, justifying this need in a clear, human, simple language. The third reason for the imbalance is certainly that the owners are then legal persons, or ordinary owners, feel that heritage protection is as restrictive as their rights are. Here I see no other option than the same educational work that awaits and is actually necessary for society as a whole. Does this law make things better? I dare say yes, it makes the situation better. I will not repeat the very many important points that have already been mentioned by the chairman of the committee, Mr Alender, and Mr Viktoria. Flexibility is important, and the most important is value-based, which is now very clearly formulated in the Heritage Protection Act, thanks to the Commission's proposal. The need to talk to the owner has also been highlighted in almost every point of the draft law. What's gotten better? The entire cost compensation mechanism has been renegotiated, recasted and has also sought to make it fully accessible to the owner. This is an important change. What else is important? It is certainly important to end the status as a monument. It's been a problem. Some of the objects have been protected a long time ago, and the owner also lacks information about this. The law includes the termination of the status as a monument, not in the wording the Chancellor of Justice suggested that the right to reason, but also for the reason that it is no longer possible to state whether this object can be adequately restored. So this basis for assessment is much wider and it is usable. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U396	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U397	It is not an ideal law, but it is not possible to make an ideal law about heritage conservation, as is the case in life at all. As my pennant told me a moment ago, this law comes first and foremost from our situation today and cannot look forward to what awaits us in 10, 15 or 20 years' time. That is why there are already a number of shortcomings in this law that are likely to be returned soon. What I miss most here is the network of trusters lost by this bill. To be honest, I still do not understand why we, who are talking about the need for civil society to develop and help all the agencies, must be the eye and ear of sight, with the other hand we will eliminate an organisation that has united those who have been operating for a long time, and not see that these people should be put to work much better. Here's a big question mark. But unfortunately, the Committee on Culture voted out the Free Party Group's proposal to maintain a network of trustees. As a museum person, on behalf of the group, I proposed that the name of the office be the Ministry of Heritage and the Museum. But the National Heritage Board will certainly also include museums, as the large collection work of museums and the coordination and organisation of databases will now be the task of the National Heritage Board. It's a big change. What is definitely missing is the regulation of the relationship between the permit and the communication. We still couldn't make it so that it might look even more at the owner. It can be done next time. There is certainly still a lack of more rapid revision of the statutes of heritage reserves. I agree with this that the four-year period that we have now set may be a long time, but it is set in the light of the current situation. Looking at the current version and the possibilities created by the new draft law, the Free Party Group, after long disputes over the name, is still supporting the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U398	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. 58 amendments to the draft have been tabled. Let's go through them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is not taken into account. The second amendment is from the Committee on Culture; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture and the decision of the commission is to take full account. The fourth amendment is also from the Committee on Culture; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. So are the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleven, twelfth, thirteen, fourteen and fifteen amendments. Amendment 16 is also from the Committee on Culture; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendments 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36 and 37 are also from the Committee on Culture; the decision of the commission is to take full account. 38th amendment tabled by Jüri Jaanson, the decision of the commission is to consider the substance. Amendment 39 is from the Committee on Culture; the decision of the commission is to take full account, as are Amendments 41 and 42. 43rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the decision of the commission is disregarded, but the proposal is not voted in accordance with the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The 44th amendment is from the Committee on Culture; the decision of the commission is to take full account, as is Amendment 45. Amendments 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57 and 58 are also from the Committee on Culture and the decision of the commission is to take full account. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the commission is to stop the second reading of the draft, but the Isamaa Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft law on heritage conservation. We will vote on this proposal. I am voting on the proposal by the Isamaa Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law on the protection of heritage. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 14 delegates, against 30. The proposal was not supported and draft 684 second reading is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U399	The next item is the second reading of the draft law on higher education. Aadu Musta, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, would you like a speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U400	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on higher education is yet another major and long-established bill of the Committee on Culture, which took a long time. This is certainly also because, indeed, all very different stakeholders were involved again. Fortunately, it was already mentioned at first reading. If you read the list of all those who took part in our debate, it would take away my speaking time. In short or in a simplified way, representatives of higher education institutions, universities of applied sciences, research institutions and also the student body were involved. Obviously, it is appropriate to focus the current presentation on what happened after the first reading of the draft. In other words, we should talk about suggestions for improvement. The improvements received were, as they say, institutionally from wall to wall. And one more important thing that we had to take into account in this draft: this bill is like a locomotive with four wagons right behind it because, in addition to the Law on Higher Education, we want to adopt separate university laws: the Tallinn University Act, the Law on the Academy of Arts, the Law on the Academy of Music and the Law on the University of Land. All of them had to take into account that we would walk in one foot and not create a single norm in one law and that of all these high schools in the law. Fortunately, there are a little less amendments than there were for the Heritage Act, but there are still many. The area of higher education is so rich and diverse that there were indeed many suggestions for improvement. Fortunately, my life is made easier by the fact that a large number of these are standard errors detected and that some of the suggestions for improvement are the adaptation of other drafts, the harmonisation of provisions. However, there were still a lot of contentious issues. The students were excited by all the provisions governing their work. The first major issue covered by Amendment 1 is doctoral studies. There were many different opinions in this area. Again, in the meantime, when you try to read something out, the Health Technology Development Centre, the ELIKO Technology Development Centre, the Food and Fermentation Technology Development Centre, etc., expressed their views, in fact, by many institutions. Finally, the Committee on Culture was forced to take on the hard work and to formulate the first amendment as a compromise. The proposals for amendments concern the granting of the right to study, the full and the part-time burden. There were major disputes over Amendment 4, tabled by the Reform Party. Basically, those who work at universities understand absolutely well why it was presented. Because the funding is tight and would like to get more resources from somewhere. On the other hand, if you look at the national level, it's still like opening the door halfway back that we're going back to paid higher education step by step. At least that's the moment of danger. The main proposals for improvement discussed by the Commission can further mention the topics related to the period of study. The student body said it would be nice if the law said that the university had to be graduate very quickly, you didn't have to pay tuition fees. Unfortunately, there are a number of important factors that prolong study time, long-term practices and various other responsibilities. One proposed amendment provided for derogations negotiated and proposed and accepted by universities. Let's go, extraterrestrial. In this regard, too, we believe that we have reached a compromise. Several issues were repeatedly linked to the reimbursement of study expenses. This issue is reflected in the various proposals for improvement. This age-old eternal topic is that if a student studies in Estonia, but goes somewhere else to work, whether or not the state of Estonia could require him to pay for the training costs. It was even discussed by the authorities and negotiated with the ministries. We understand that if, for example, a person who has learned one specialty at the National Defence Academy goes to work for an institution in another Estonian state, there is no point in torturing or repressing him, but there is also a problem in itself in the sense that some authorities are again unhappy that their own go to work elsewhere. There was an attempt to harmonise as much as possible, but we did take into account all of the university's reasoned proposals when they explained that their practice was different. In some cases, this explanation was well-suited in the sense that it was dared to confess: this body, which the legislator wants to put into some kind of task, does not have the required competences. Consequently, this task must be entrusted to another institution. We also responded to these proposals. There were many disputes about the requirements for academic staff. The Academy of Sciences, you remember the members of the committee remember, the others can't remember, found that listen, it's not even conceivable that there could be a professor who doesn't have a doctorate. It was so convincing from the mouth of Tarmo Finlande that it was not possible to argue against it. Then the people of the universities of applied sciences came and said that if there is a world-famous specialist or artist who doesn't have the required papers, the Council of the institution highly appreciates him, what happens then. It was found that such things were taken from practical life and exceptions had to be applied in individual cases. More important issues. For example, the Group of the Estonian Free Party tabled an amendment to the number 13 on tenure. A discussion was discussed and a bit of text changed. Finally, it was formalised as a Commission proposal as number 14, but essentially as a proposal, 13 merged into 14. There were more of these things, of course. Did it ring a bell yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U401	It was next door.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U402	Oh, I see. There were problems with tenure, there were problems with social benefits, there were problems with emerites. We accept that a course has been taken on the disappearance of the docent's title. Fortunately, it suddenly occurred to me that we have people like emeritus professors and emeritus directors. The Commission found in a very good and reasonable manner that emeritus docents were not going to be reaccredited, whether they would be emeritus professors or who knew what. Their titles, as well as their privileges and pensions, will remain as they have been granted, but no more will be granted. It seems to me that I cannot deal with all the proposals, but some of the things concerning the Riigikogu and where the Commission went completely against the proposals of the Ministry, I would like to point out. I will try to find a justification from you, like the Commission. One topic was that the Ministry found that such a foolish practice or waste of resources as the Prime Minister's annual presentations to Parliament on research and development was an excessive luxury. Let one of the ministers talk about it, such as the Minister of Education and Science. Krista and Yoko and I are now changing our eyes, and we found that, listen, let the Prime Minister come to Parliament. Then it is a matter of importance. And what is this understatement of Parliament? Isn't it appropriate for the Prime Minister to go to Parliament? We formulated our amendment as a proposal 30. Make sure you don't vote against! It says that the Prime Minister must come here to talk about it, or it is not an important issue. As I said, I will refrain from introducing to you subjects that regulate one or the other of the narrowest technical areas. I will say two words, however, about those proposals that we did not take into account. One subject was profoundly pedagogical, which we learned when discussing, but we also taught others. The student body came and said that good academic practices or something should be included in the law. However, the Commission's consensus was that in most of the old large universities, good academic practices have long developed clearly and with relief and do not need to be included in the law. Rather, young universities, where there are no such practices, must be told that they too must develop their good academic practices. There was also a lot of information noise in the dispute. The representatives of the students called for representatives from one institution or another. It was explained to them that at different times the names of certain institutions had been the Senate, though the Council, and when they understood what had changed and what was really behind the name, the situation was satisfied. I would have liked to speak more systematically on this subject. I'm used to talking for 45 minutes, then taking a 15-minute break and then talking for 45 more minutes. But good friends, colleagues said try to be brief. All the missing I have to cancel in the round of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U403	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U404	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! The Higher Education Act first appeared in the field of vision of the Committee on Culture in December 2015, namely in the form of a draft Education Act. The Education Act was to be the law that lays down the fundamental values, the fundamental values of the whole education system and provides for the general organisation of the whole education system. And later, the separate pre-school, comprehensive and upper secondary school and higher education law had to be added. So we would have had the educational landscape organized in more or less the same way, first the umbrella law and then the pillars. But the plans are always one, life is known to make adjustments to them. We have now worked in the Committee on Culture on the Higher Education Act and several separate draft laws for higher education institutions. You can immediately ask why this is the case: why do all our public higher education institutions now have a separate law? As we know, before we had the University of Tartu Act and the Tallinn University of Technology Act. The current principle is that the Higher Education Act lays down general requirements for all higher education institutions, and the different laws come under this law for each public higher education institution. The Law on Higher Education does not solve the biggest bottleneck in our higher education, or lack of money. Funding issues are dealt with by the Higher Education Act only in so far as it harmonises the principle of funding with the principle of operating support and ad hoc support consisting of basic funding and performance financing. But it doesn't bring more money to higher education. This law also does not solve one major and serious issue raised by research and development centres, as well as a number of companies: it is the movement of people from the academic sphere into business and then from entrepreneurship to academic activities again. Also this question, the more precise regulation of the entire doctoral thesis, was now removed from this draft law, so that the doctoral thesis, including business doctoral thesis and business magic, could be thoroughly rethought and discussed. What good does this law do? It's trying to put in place a motivated, well-founded career model. The concept of tenure and the financing of tenure are very clear in the draft law. What else is good? This will certainly make the assessment of higher education institutions more flexible, better and clearer, both in the general assessment and in the thematic assessment. For example, in the case of thematic evaluation, the Minister for Education and Research must provide the higher education with a timetable. Academic freedom, flexibility in the organisation of studies within the institution of higher education, as well as cooperation between higher education institutions, will certainly increase. The draft regulates and specifies how a joint diploma is awarded in the case of inter-university studies and what is the right of each institution itself to issue its own diploma, for example in the case of joint courses or other joint studies. So we're here again with a bill that doesn't solve all the problems. This certainly will not produce this result in our higher education, which is now needed groundbreakingly, and that is that funding will improve. But this law is needed to ensure that the organisation of higher education institutions, the daily functioning of higher education institutions, is more modern and, at the same time, harmonised in all higher education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U405	There are no further requests to speak. 35 amendments have been tabled for bill 725. Let's go through them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture, the decision of the commission: to take full account, the same applies to Amendment 2. The third and fourth amendments are the decision made by the Reform Party Group, by the lead committee: to be disregarded. Fifth amendment from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Steering Committee: take full account. The sixth amendment from the Committee on Culture, the decision of the commission: to take full account, the same applies to the seventh, eighth and ninth amendments. Amendment 10 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: consider the substance. Amendment 11 from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, lead committee: consider the substance. The 12th amendment is from the Committee on Culture, the decision of the commission: take full account. Amendment 13 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party, decision of the commission: to take part in this. Amendment 14 is from the Committee on Culture, the lead committee has decided to take full account of it. The same shall apply to 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29. Amendments 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35, all tabled by the Committee on Culture and fully taken into account by the commission. We have examined the draft amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 725. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U406	Next item: Second reading of the draft Tallinn University Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Toomas Väinaste, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U407	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The procedure between the first reading and the second reading in the Committee on Culture of the draft Tallinn University Act 726 was as follows. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft Tallinn University Act on 15 October 2018. The purpose of the draft is to establish the Tallinn University Act, which sets out the purpose, tasks, management and funding of the university. The first reading of the draft decision took place on 14 November 2018. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 28 November. The Committee on Culture asked about the draft opinion from Tallinn University, the Estonian University of Life Sciences, the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, the Estonian Academy of Arts, the Council of Rectors, the Estonian Academy of Sciences, the Association of Estonian Student Unions, the Universitas Association of Estonian Higher Education and Research and Development Institutions, the Confederation of Estonian Trade Unions, the Confederation of Trade Unions, the Confederation of Trade Unions for Employees, TALO and the Confederation of Estonian Employers. The Association of Estonian Universitas, the Confederation of Estonian Universitas, the Confederation of Estonian Higher Education and Development Institutions, TALO, the Confederation of Estonian Student Associations and the Estonian Academy of Sciences gave their opinion. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft after its first reading on three occasions on 14 and 29 and 31 January and decided to make two amendments. On 14 January, the Committee on Culture held a meeting in which stakeholders presented their views on five drafts: the draft law of Tallinn University, the draft law of the Estonian Music University, the draft law of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, the draft law of the Estonian Academy of Arts and the draft law of higher education. There were two amendments, both from the Committee on Culture. First: amend § 4 (3) of the draft and formulate it as follows: 'One person may be appointed to the Council only on one of the grounds set out in subsection 2 of this section. The President, Vice-President or Secretary-General of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, Minister or Chancellor of the Ministry responsible for the field, staff member of the university or member of the management body of another Estonian university cannot be a member of the Supervisory Board appointed pursuant to subsection 2 (2) or (3) of this section. ' And the second amendment: amend Article 9 (4) of the draft and formulate it as follows: 'The Council set up under the University Act shall, from 1 January 2020, carry out the duties assigned to the Senate by this Act. The powers of the Council set up under the University University Act shall remain in force until the formation of the Senate referred to in this Act, but no longer than 31 August 2020. ' The procedural decisions and proposals of the Committee on Culture were as follows: On 31 January the Committee on Culture decided to submit draft 726 for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 13 February with the proposal to terminate the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U408	Andres Herkel has a question for the waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U409	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! We now have several draft laws of public institutions of higher education on the agenda. Please tell me whether, in the course of these discussions, there was such an opportunity that perhaps they will eventually be merged into a single law on higher education. I will give another example of the Commission: we also have several electoral laws, three in total with the election of the European Parliament. In the meantime, it was said that it would be useful to merge them into a single electoral code, for example. Can we ever have a higher education code?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U410	I can't tell you this, but before, the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology had a separate law and general university law. Personally, I realized that the laws that are now coming up would rather improve the situation. It makes leadership and everything else clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U411	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled. Let's go through them together. Both are submitted by the Committee on Culture and the decision is: take full account. The first and second amendments. The proposed amendments to the draft have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 726. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U412	Next item: Second reading of the draft Estonian University of Life Sciences Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Krista Aru, Member of the Committee on Culture, will present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U413	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! Bill 727 is a draft law of the Estonian University of Life Sciences. It was initiated by the Government on 15 October 2018. The draft law sets out the purpose, tasks, management and funding of the university. As we know, the University of Life Sciences is the successor of the veterinary school founded in Tartu in 1848 and it is also mentioned in the draft. The first reading took place on 14 November. No amendments were received within the deadline. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft on three occasions: 14 January, 29 January and 31 January. The Commission met with representatives of all stakeholders on the draft law, discussed a number of amendments and all draft laws in one package with different emphasis. We worked on the Higher Education Act and the draft laws of all higher education institutions, as in a single set, but we dealt with individual issues separately for each college bill. Two amendments to the draft law of the University of Life Sciences were also formulated by the Committee on Culture itself. These proposals have been based primarily on the observation made by the Estonian Academy of Sciences. In fact, the draft law had a very clear interpretation, according to which none of the board of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, which includes academics, should have been a member of the board of directors of the university. The Committee on Culture, considering, however, that it was right and necessary for the members of the board of the Estonian Academy of Sciences to be appointed to the Board of Estonian Higher Education Institutions, made this provision very more precise, as proposed by the Estonian Academy of Sciences. As my colleague, Toomas Väinaste, read here earlier, for example, the Estonian Academy of Sciences must not have been appointed to the Board of the Academy but the President, Vice-President or Secretary-General of the Academy, and similarly the Minister or Chancellor or the employee of a particular university must not have been appointed by the Ministry. There was another important point of discussion. In fact, the original text of the draft law states that the board of another institution of higher education must not be appointed as a member of another Estonian institution of higher education. There was a proposal, and we were seriously considering whether to take the word 'Estonia' away and, with it, to restrict the appointment of a representative of a Finnish or German higher education institution to the Estonian higher education council, for example, but we found that this was not practical in any way. So the original limit remained. In discussing this change quite thoroughly, the Committee on Culture proposed by consensus a wording that limits the appointment of a large number of academics on the Boards of the Boards of the Estonian Academy of Sciences. The second amendment made by the Committee on Culture itself concerns the transitional arrangements, i.e. how the Council, which is currently working, will complete its work, what are and how long the Council's mandate will last. It is now the case that, in all higher education institutions, a Senate and a council are set up to oversee and direct, to a certain extent, the work of the entire university, together with the Rector. It was necessary to set out how long the tasks of the current Council would be in force. So this is specifically a transitional provision and can be seen as a non-material change. At the same time, this amendment gives clarity to higher education institutions. There were therefore two amendments which were made by consensus by the Committee on Culture and where there were no disputes. At its meeting on 31 January, the Committee on Culture (including by consensus) took its own procedural decisions. The Commission proposed that the second reading be carried out on 13 February, today and that Krista Aru be appointed rapporteur, as well as at first reading. The proposal is to conclude the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to send the draft law to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U414	Andres Herkel, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U415	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! I'm going to ask the same question as the last waitress. Can a return to the single code of higher education ever be considered? Was there any mention of this in the Commission during these discussions, or is this development in the direction that a separate law for everyone is already irreversible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U416	Thank you. Yes, this issue was raised in the Commission from the very beginning, when we also had the Minister of Education and Science presenting the draft laws. The Committee on Culture also had the knowledge, as I recalled in my previous speech, that in December 2015 and January 2016, when we were talking about a major education law, and we had already read the first version of the draft Education Act, that all the organisational and purposeful tasks of higher education institutions would be tried to bring together into one higher education law. The correction, which is now expressed in the fact that we have the Higher Education Act and separate laws of all higher education institutions, is born with the effect of today's situation. Each university will now have its own law and all higher education institutions will undoubtedly be very happy and satisfied that they will have their own law on the basis of which to act as a public higher education institution. Whether it is still possible to reverse it was not discussed by the Commission. Rather, I do not see that it is appropriate to start applying for this reversal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U417	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I'll open negotiations if you want me to. It's not there. Two amendments to draft 727 have been tabled, and we will examine them together. Both have been presented by the Committee on Culture and the decision is to take them fully into account. First and second amendments, decision of the commission: take full account. The amendments to Bill 727 have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U418	Second reading of the draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Arts initiated by the Government of the Republic. I invite Yoko Alender, Vice-Chairman of the Cultural Commission, to give a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U419	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's pretty much the same. 730 Second reading of the SE, Estonian Academy of Arts Act. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Arts on 15 October 2018. The purpose of the draft is to establish the Act of the Academy of Arts, which provides for the purpose, tasks, management and funding of the university. And since Krista Aru has already opened the history chapter so nicely here, I note that this year we have an art academy that will be 105 years old. The first reading took place on 14 November 2018 and no amendments were tabled within the deadline for amendments. The opinion was requested from the same stakeholders and the draft was discussed in the Commission three times after the first reading. The Commission decided to propose two amendments with similar content. On 14 January, the Commission met stakeholders who presented their views on all university drafts. The amendments also concern the organisation of the appointment of members of the Governing Council and transitional provisions. In the case of the Academy of Arts, one particular feature might be highlighted: the Academy also pursues creative research, which is certainly an important feature of this university. In the meantime, the Ministry tried to harmonise the text of the drafts and to provide for the role of the university scientific councils to be played by the Senate. In the case of the Academy of Arts, however, the Commission remained in the original wording of the draft debate and the Senate of the Academy of Arts determines who the Scientific Council is composed of. At times, it is also necessary to involve specialists from outside the Senate, as it is a university with many creative fields. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U420	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled. Both have been presented by the Committee on Culture and the decision is to take them fully into account. The first and second amendments. We have therefore examined the draft amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 730. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U421	Second reading of the draft Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I invite Yoko Alender, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Culture, back to the chair for a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U422	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have no surprises for you, but I will let you know that the Government of the Republic initiated the draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre on 15 October 2018. The draft aims to establish the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre Act, which provides the basis for the purpose, tasks, management and funding of the university. The first reading took place on 14 November 2018, with no proposals submitted within the deadline for amendments. The Committee on Culture asked for opinions and discussed the draft three times after the first reading and decided to make two amendments which also dealt with the appointment of Council members and transitional provisions until the entry into force of the Act. The Committee on Culture also held a meeting on 14 January 2019 in which stakeholders expressed their views. Some linguistic corrections have been made to the bill, but that is all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U423	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. Two amendments have been tabled to the draft, both from the Committee on Culture and for both there is a decision to take full account of them. The first and second amendments. We have examined the amendments to draft 728. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U424	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft resolution by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia on the issue of participation in the UN Global Migration Pact. I invite a speech chair to be presented by a member of the Riigikogu, Henn Põllamaa. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U425	There's no more calls. I would remind the Chamber that the representatives of the political groups will get the floor at first reading. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 764 at first reading. Let's get ready for the vote. I am voting on the proposal of the commission to reject the Riigikogu decision 'Organisation of a public vote on the issue of participation in the UN Global Migration Pact', tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, 764 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was 14 in favour, 14 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported, the draft remains open. The deadline for submitting amendments shall be set at 5.15 p.m. on 27 February. [[Let's hear it.]] The sitting is adjourned. We'll meet again at 10:00 a.m. this morning. Closure of the sitting at 00.004.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U426	Good meeting manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The subject we want to talk about today and the proposal is extremely important: the UN Migration Agreement and its referendum. I'm gonna do a little bit of an overview of how this subject has gotten to us on this table in the first place. This saga, frankly, is extremely shameful. Last March, Foreign Minister Mikser went to the Committee on Foreign Affairs to present this issue. This in quotes, because the subject of the UN Migration Agreement was hidden between the Council of Europe's thematic points, not as a UN issue, and it slipped over smoothly, claiming that this is a completely formal, non-essential matter, which does not impose any obligations on Estonia. They're just starting to negotiate. He promised to keep the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Riigikogu informed. Unfortunately, it was followed by total silence. Negotiations were held, but the Riigikogu did not bother to inform it. In October, the EKRE Group took up the topic here in the Riigikogu. We began to ask that, as we know, the agreement has been signed already in the summer, what it is and what Estonia's views are. It was darkened for a long time, eventually forced to admit that indeed, it was signed. Mikser claimed that the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu had approved it and that he personally went to introduce it. There was no such thing as what was being introduced. You will all remember very well how we and the Estonian public were assured that this was absolutely nothing important, that the clauses of the agreement were not binding. Both the EKRE and the Committee on Foreign Affairs called for translation of the migration pact into Estonian and its publication. It stretched, stretched for a very long time, until it was finally done. And what did we find there? Compared to the original text, there was a perfectly clear forgery. The name of the travelling pact, which is actually a migration agreement, had become somewhat vague in Estonian: the migration framework. None of the official languages of the United Nations had such a name. And there are more than 20 commitments in this agreement, an obligation that had been translated into Estonian very blurry: we take on our commitment. In all other languages, commitments are quite clearly mentioned, but we are told that no commitments have been made. So what's the deal? I have here a little summary of the various commitments we make. Basically, this whole pact is a sneaky immigration pump that declares migration as a source of prosperity, innovation and sustainable development. The pilgrimage puts legal and illegal migrants into one sin, who need to travel to a country. When the Declaration of Human Rights talks about the person and the Geneva Refugee Convention about refugees, now the focus is placed on a migrant who is guaranteed almost the same rights. In essence, immigration is declared a human right. The host country must receive an unlimited number of migrants, give them identity documents, visas, guarantee family reunification, or return, and all rights: housing, education, medical care, legal assistance in their own language, social benefits, citizenship for children born here immediately and for others in a simplified manner, jobs, etc. Host countries must increase the influence of migrants in society, whatever that means, and the acceptance of so-called diversity. People also go to freedom of expression. Under the banning slogan of hate speech, criticism of immigration or immigrants must be punished and governments must direct the press to show migrants in a good light, in other words, to establish censorship and mentality control. All refunds must be withdrawn from leaves which do not follow it. Research, which shows that immigration is a positive key, must be encouraged. Schools must put in place educational programmes that help to popularise immigration. Immigration is declared to be a profoundly positive and constructive phenomenon, while the document does not identify any negative consequences of mass immigration for the countries of destination or any steps to avoid such tendencies. While the agreement says that countries can pursue an independent immigration policy, the sentence ends with the words 'in accordance with international standards'. And that is precisely what this agreement creates. Moreover, the Pact states that this is only a milestone, not the end point of the effort. It's only one step on this road. And we have seen, and indeed have seen, how European 'international standards' have become international rules and obligations that no country can now overcome or around them, especially countries that have so-called voluntarily assumed these obligations. We're told that EKRE and the National Conservatories are causing panic. Nobody's coming in here, what are you talking about? But last year, for example, Die Welt brokered a study conducted in ten so-called sub-Saharan African countries, where most of the African migrants arriving in Europe come from. 75% of those surveyed in Ghana, 74% in Nigeria, half of respondents in Kenya, Tanzania, Senegal and South Africa want to leave their homeland, emigrate to Europe. Nearly 40% of the respondents in Senegal, Ghana and Nigeria want to do so in the next five years. Today, more than a billion people live in Africa, by 2050 more than 2 billion people already live there. And if half of them want to come to Europe, imagine: Europe against 500 million from Africa alone and how much else! Africa isn't the only place to come. So this is an agreement that is completely directly against the interests of the Estonian state and the people, which is also completely contrary to our constitution: essentially it repeals the provision of the Constitution, which states that the Estonian state was created in the undying right of the national self-determination of the Estonian people to preserve the Estonian nation, language and culture. In this situation, it is no longer possible to preserve the Estonian language, nationality or culture. The most embarrassing thing is that this twilight and lies have been kept to a constant level, which also led to a government crisis. The government was unable to take a decision on joining the UN Migration Treaty, so it was placed in the Riigikogu. We know how this was pushed through the Riigikogu. But it was a statement, not a decision of the Riigikogu. And there is absolutely no legal force in the statement. And this statement was also accepted only because of the double-faced behaviour of the Reform Party, who simply pulled his tail between his legs and disappeared from this hall towards four winds. The only one who has actually supported the government's views that these are not responsibilities is Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise. But we all know perfectly well that he does not give impartial legal assessments, but rather politically biased analyses and responses to orders. The Minister of Justice asked a number of experts in international law and the Bureau of Estonia for a position on this matter, and everyone agreed that the UN migration agreement is creative and mandatory. All these aspects that I have read to you here, we have no sovereign right to change or oppose anything any more, once we have accepted and approved it. And most shamefully: without having any mandate to do so, I would remind you that there is no government decision in this regard and that it is the government that should deal with foreign policy; the Riigikogu statement does not have any legal basis; the Foreign Minister, Mikser, ordered our UN ambassador to approve this agreement. The Social Democratic Party has been overactive behind all this disastrous process. And there is nothing to be surprised about, because the official doctrine that their chairman has put out is very simple: nationhood is an inhuman and dangerous dystopia. And the destruction of this dystopia and inhumanity is what this is all about. The Constitution says that the highest power in Estonia is the nation. And it's our duty to all of us, you can't get over it or around it. And the people are quite clearly opposed to joining the UN Migration Agreement: according to surveys, nearly 75% of our people do not support it. Joining it is the most vicious violation of democracy, which will lead to another step towards our sovereignty and the loss of our people's survival. That is why the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has come up with a draft decision of the Riigikogu to put the issue of participation in the UN Global Migration Pact to a referendum. Because one of the most important rights of citizens of any independent democratic country is to decide who and under what conditions want to be their countrymen and citizens, that is to say, who to allow their country and how to treat foreigners. The UN Global Migration Pact gives Estonia moral and political guidance for the future, thereby directly violating the sovereignty of the Republic of Estonia. So joining or not joining the UN Global Pact on Migration is a matter of value at the same time, because it affects not only our lives but also the lives of our future generations completely directly. It is also a question of authorising the interference of the fundamental principles of the Constitution. On such a fundamental issue, society must not be excluded from making a political decision, as was done again this time. It is a value decision which does not require a deep expertise. Our people have sufficient maturity, sufficient historical experience, sufficient wisdom to know and feel what is good for us, what is dangerous to us, and what can become a complete fatality for our children and grandchildren. In a democratic society, the attitude and will of the people are the foundation of political solutions. And we who represent the people here must do so in action, not just in words. It makes perfect sense that the highest state power, or people, does their will through a referendum on the migration pact. That is why we are proposing a referendum on participation in the UN Global Migration Pact. The vote paper might ask the question 'Are you in favour of the participation of the Republic of Estonia in the UN Global Migration Pact? 'and the cells with the answers 'yes' and 'no'. There's nothing complicated about that. But one little 'but' is really what somebody here would probably ask about. According to our draft, the proposal is to hold a referendum with the Riigikogu elections on 3 March. We have already tabled this draft in November. If it had been dealt with immediately, it would have given sufficient time to the law, that is, three months until a referendum was held on the adoption of this decision. Unfortunately, this bill has been marinated so far, it has not been put on the table. It has now finally reached the Commission and today this Chamber, but there are no more three months until the Riigikogu elections. In essence, this referendum cannot be conducted on 3 March. However, since the draft has two readings, it is possible to make an amendment not to carry it out on 3 March with the Riigikogu elections, but rather to the European Parliament elections at the end of May. We have enough time to make this happen. I hope you will really show which side you are on, both as ambassadors and as political parties. That you will show whether you care about the Estonian people, our future, our children and grandchildren, or whether you will continue to cross your own people with a roller, whether you will simply consider it necessary for someone to be a foreign adviser and God knows what other country's approval, who has gone along with this plan to destroy liberal nation states, or whether you will appreciate the clarity and decide that we are the masters of this country, we ourselves decide, we ourselves know what is good for us. Not all countries have joined this agreement. This agreement has been rejected by the United States, Japan, Australia, etc. It is, in fact, absolutely ridiculous to assume that the experts in international law in these countries do not share anything, that it does not realise that it is a mere piece of paper that does not impose any obligations on anyone, but it is simply a declaration of this kind. Are some of our wise men smarter than the experts in other countries? Think about it! In fact, our experts say that we must not join it. And this is one moment that will actually be extremely important in determining the fate of our Estonian state. We have had very proud and victorious moments throughout history, we have also had shameful and ugly moments. If this agreement is not put to a referendum, if the people are not allowed to decide their future, then it is one of the darkest, scariest, most embarrassing and disgraceful moments that all those who do not support this bill are contributing to. Think of how you will ever look your grandchildren in the eye! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U427	Four questions have been registered in the report. Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U428	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Can we link this whole story to the published European manifesto of representatives of liberal parties, which states that the greatest enemy in Europe is nationalism, and calls for Europe to move to a post-ethnic era? Is the UN Pact part of this move to a supranational, post-national Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U429	Absolutely! It is quite clear here that there are common lines with the European manifesto, which states, as you rightly pointed out, that nationhood is the worst enemy and must be destroyed. The European Union must be a globalist multicultural cable of nations, in which the identity and culture of the people of any Member State has no value whatsoever, in which we are dictated to what human perceptions, customs, behaviour must be. The worst is everything that does not match this liberal democracy and the idea of 'Europe'. All of this is to be eliminated in the strictest way, as all the obligations of the Migration Pact require. And we know the result. As far as the UN is concerned, the UN is no longer what it once was. After all, the lion's share of UN members is a third-world country with no democracy, violence, corruption and dictators. After all, this whole migration pact has been drawn up from their point of view. If one could ever say that these poor developing countries, third-world countries, need protection, today the opposite is true: in fact, European countries, European nation states, need protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U430	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U431	Thank you. To give the question a 'framework', I would first of all like to say that, although I do not agree with many of the aspects of how you interpreted this Pact on Migration, I want to congratulate you on this proposal. For indeed, the thing that began with the civilised debate on immigration in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was also supposed to be public, was quickly galloping in the debate on the migration pact in the autumn into a government crisis and decision-making based on completely different reasons and also on reasons than immigration. It is therefore only possible to give the solution to this problem to the Estonian people, Estonian citizens. But here's my question. Let's say what you said in the remote is right. We do not know how the Estonian people will vote, but let us say that Estonia should not participate in this migration pact. So that we can all understand: what does it entail? What, then, should be the steps taken by the Estonian Government to implement the will expressed in the referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U432	As far as the content of this migration pact is concerned, what I read here is all taken directly from the commitments listed in the migration pact. I can't imagine if it's possible not to agree with them. You could say that they could be interpreted differently, but if they're black in white just like that, it's actually just one dark and wrong thing we've heard all day in this process. But what if the people have made their own decisions? There's nothing complicated about it. If the Estonian people decide that the migration pact is useful and good for us, then we are still associated with it. If the Estonian people decide to leave it, the state and government are obliged to comply with this decision. And just as it was when Estonia joined it, Estonia will inform the UN that, according to the decision of the referendum, Estonia will withdraw from this pact and do not consider any of the points set out there to be mandatory. That's right. Exactly the same has been declared by all the other countries that did not join it. We are just going to camp there, we are going to join the countries that are interested in preserving sovereignty, maintaining their decision-making powers, and they are going to determine how much and who they are going to allow to come to their own country. It's easy. There are other international agreements with which Estonia has not joined, even in matters of citizenship and other matters, and no one is pointing the finger at us, how so. I have also not heard anyone point the finger at Japan or Australia or other countries that have already refused to join it in the beginning. I don't know it's some kind of pariah. In fact, on the contrary, if the state shows courage and determination and care for its people, it only raises respect, nothing more.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U433	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U434	Good manager! Good penguin! According to the survey, most people are opposed to this migration agreement. If soon this empty hall will be filled with representatives of the people and the idea of a referendum will be suffocated, I ask you: in whose behalf do these representatives act if that happens?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U435	That is a very good question, but this should be asked actually by them themselves. After all, we have been told by the Kapo and the Information Board that we have useful idiots, and we also have influence agents, we have just people who don't care who live with eye flaps, who absolutely don't care about their national belongings, the Estonian state, the people, their identity, they're like that. But it must remain on their own conscience. Actually, there's one more moment in this pact. After all, we are talking about the third world and immigration to Europe, Africa, Asia, the Middle East and wherever, but in fact, this problem is much wider. After all, it also opens the door to immigration from Russia, which can then use it to flood Estonia with so-called refugees. In fact, according to this pact, they do not have to be refugees at all, but people who simply travel somewhere else with any motive, whether economic or whatever. It also gives Russia the opportunity to increase the fifth column here, to flood us with people, and we can imagine very well what the result is. So all those who vote against this bill and proposal have to take into account that they actually do not even play Russian roulette in Russian roulette there is one bullet inside the gun, they place a bomb not only on themselves, but on the entire Estonian state and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U436	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U437	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good groupmate! I'm glad this Russian issue came up. We know how our ex-student trollers and all kinds of other jokers often blame our party, I don't know, somehow working for the Kremlin. If we now look at this situation with regard to the migration framework, we will see that Russia has joined it. It is good for him, and Russia sees it as an opportunity to influence its neighbouring countries through its so-called compatriots. The people who support the migration framework, I believe, are doing the Russian thing. How is it with this 'Kremlin' being a henchman' in the context of this migration framework dispute?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U438	Well, clearly, that's it. Russia joined this pact and it would be extremely naive to think that Russia will open its borders to unrestricted migration, as this pact requires. Of course he won't. Russia is fulfilling international agreements as much as it sees fit. We know Russia's behaviour, Russia's policy: Russia will not allow mass immigration to move towards Russia. He has done such tests with Finland, though with Norway in previous years, planting his own people and others. Indeed, if certain forces are trying to accuse national-minded people of puttinginism, in fact, accepting this agreement in itself is nothing more than a perfectly clear expression of putinism, aiding the Kremlin's intentions and politics. There is no doubt about that. In fact, it is very good that this important issue arose in the year preceding the elections. It still gives our people a perfectly clear picture and understanding of what some party, some politician, some vigilante really thinks and does. I hope that this will also be clearly reflected in the election results. We have experienced what mass immigration means. It has been almost 30 years since Estonia regained independence, but it has still not been possible to integrate the company that came in to us at one time. And the current situation, in fact, leads to this so-called unification and integration ever further and further. If every year a fewty thousand people come to Estonia, next year the Ministry of the Interior estimates 33000 people, probably much more, because the curve is increasing progressively, we will already have a situation today and tomorrow and the day after tomorrow where it will be much harder to deal with Estonian than it is now. Indeed, if this UN Migration Pact is to work, then there will be no masses tomorrow. There won't be any Masses coming in the day after tomorrow, maybe there won't be a year, but it's just a matter of time. Because they're coming. And we have no right to decide for ourselves who we are going to let in here, we have a duty to accept everything, we have to fulfil all the obligations that I have previously counted and which are set out in the pact. At a good moment, indeed, the question arises of whose country it is. And does the Estonian state have any meaning whatsoever without the Estonian people? To talk here about Estonians in Somali or Estonians in Nigerian or Estonians in Arabic, it is nonsense. It's literally nonsense! Our constitution has given us the obligation to preserve the Estonian language, culture and nation, and it is our duty to fulfil that obligation. If this is not done, if it is being counterproductive, then it is actually the most direct counter-work against the Estonian state, our constitution, our principles, and it can be evened out, why not? just treason.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U439	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the leading committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U440	Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs had a debate on this item on 28 January 2019. In the course of this debate, we did not reopen the content and nature of the travelling pact, as we all went through it here in the Riigikogu at the end of last year. Therefore, we were discussing only the issue of the decision of this Riigikogu. And the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided: to put this draft decision on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by today, 13 February, to appoint me rapporteur and to propose that the draft be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U441	Any questions for the waitress? It is. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U442	Thank you. Perhaps you will state some arguments and reasons why such a decision was made. And who were those who were in favour of rejecting it? Namely, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U443	Thanks! As for the arguments, you yourself touched them in your report. The main argument was that it would not be possible to carry out this referendum legally on 3 March 2019. You were correct in your speech in the sense that you indicated that the draft was put into proceedings at the end of November 2018, if this option had theoretically existed until March, there were three months left. But given when we discussed this resolution of the Riigikogu, as well as the working schedule of the Riigikogu, it would still have been unrealistic to achieve this result. By the way, there was also an interesting legal question. We were discussing a precedent here today and we were in silence for an hour. There are probably no examples in the history of the Republic of Estonia that one government or the composition of the Riigikogu determines a popular survey for the next term of office of the Riigikogu and the government. If an amendment were to be made to carry out the interview later, that would mean that. But I don't know if this argument is appropriate. I'm sure you can argue about that. But I also remember the part of the question concerning rejection. Apart from Mr Madison, who opposed the rejection, and the abstentions, Mr Adams, were in favour of the rejection by the other members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U444	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U445	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, is there a reason why the bill stood so long, from the end of November until now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U446	Thank you. Like I said, that deadline wasn't realistic. Even if this had been discussed in December, we would not have achieved a situation in order to hold a referendum on 3 March. It wouldn't have been three months.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U447	Thank you very much for the waitress. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U448	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, who else do we have here? First of all, I would like to thank the Riigikogu's management, who found the opportunity to put this important item on the agenda last so that we would still have the greatest possible participation. But let's get to the bottom of it! The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia says a simple sentence at the beginning: the highest authority is exercised by the people. In other words, sovereignty is in the hands of the people and the people are sovereign. This means that the most important matters relating to state life should still be discussed with the same sovereign and asked for permission on important matters. And there is no more important issue, there is nothing more important than population. It is one of these three states' attributes of territory; the other is population; the third is then a legitimate government. What we see in terms of immigration, and not only in Estonia but also elsewhere in Europe, as well as in America, where this issue is now very hot, is a process in which people who are the masters of the state are being replaced against people from somewhere else. If 100,000 people leave Estonia to work in Finland and almost 40,000 workers from Ukraine will be replaced in one year, then we will extend this process to 10 years, and we will see that indigenous people remain in minority in their own country. We already feel that I, as a resident of Tallinn, already feel that it is difficult for me to manage in many places in my hometown if I want to do business in Estonian, it is in a shop or at a doctor's office or in a service establishment. I find it difficult to cope in my native language! In a few years, we will see the processes in Finland and Sweden completely out of control. People discover that they didn't change their place of residence, that they've come to live in a third world. If you used to live on a polite street where street lighting worked and you could leave a bicycle somewhere in front of the house, now you can't. The trash has been thrown out, everything that's hanging is stolen. In the evening, you dare not go out at all, be kidnapped or raped. Just for one reason: because tolerants have gained their beloved multiculturality. However, it has succeeded in mixing nations and making life more fun, diversifying, showing everyone that we are so wonderful tolerant that we are prepared to fall to pieces of our country and to let our indigenous people into a minority to show how tolerant we are. No one has the right to demand from us that we give up the status of host in our own country. No one has the right to demand it! No one has the right to come and tell us that all right, if you don't agree to 100,000, take 10,000. But you have to take it anyway, because immigration is inevitable. No, it's not! If you don't, you don't pick up, and that's it. But if we want to, we have to ask people. It is important to ask the people who are already here and to whom this country belongs, whose parents and grandparents have made this country and passed it on to their children and grandchildren. That's what we want with this bill. In this hall, we know who's outnumbered. In this hall, the majority of people who want to leave the indigenous people in their own country, to take away the right to host the Estonians, to make us live in a third world. Our party is not in favour of this; we do not agree with this. We'll fight it to the last drop of blood. And indeed, as Oudekki Loone said, but when the Estonian people decide, the people who already exist here, who are citizens and people with the right to vote, decide that we want to die out, what is it? I don't like this decision, but I'm okay with it. But if, in this hall, slipping, lying, twisting the Constitution, crossing the Preamble of the Constitution, breaking the law of foreign communication, breaking government law, breaking the rule of law, it's done, well, then we're rolling towards a revolutionary situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U449	Oudekki Loone on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-13_U450	Hi! I want to comment on the absolutely amazing situation that has arisen here. We can see how easy this can happen. When it comes to immigration, you can start with a very rational and prudent approach and say that being in favour of the migration pact will create a more open world for us, where everyone is better off. On the other hand, it can be said that being opposed to the migration pact means protecting their workers. All kinds of things you can say. And then we are hit by the disease of children in Estonia's politics - putinism. If you are in favour of one, you are in favour of Russia, and that is bad. Listen, this kind of rhetoric we could give up! It's not rational, it's not worthy of this hall! If we want to debate immigration, we will discuss immigration. If we find that the Estonian people should discuss immigration more widely, we will give people this opportunity! I hope that we will give this opportunity, whether we hold a referendum or not. The subject of immigration needs to be discussed in public. But let's make sure that absolutely absurd accusations aren't thrown, including, among other things, making us more free. If we are always discussing what the elephant thinks of us and trying to make our political decisions, above all, wishing that Russia would not agree with us, then we are a Russian colony. Make us an independent nation! We are also considering today what is in our interest, not saying that opponents are putinists anyway. I don't think even kindergarten kids do that. Let's not do that either! Thank you.
