ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U1	Let's keep going. Today's 11th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Flag and Registers of Ships and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws and amending the Income Tax Act. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Hello, new day. I will introduce you to the draft law amending the flag law of the ship and the Ship Registers Act and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws and the Income Tax Act. Today we are in a situation where Estonia is in the leading position in the Baltic Sea for passenger ships and several large passenger ships fly the flag of Estonia, but unfortunately there are no major cargo ships flying the flag of Estonia. The last cargo ship left the Estonian flag in 2014. This bill is an important first step and is part of a comprehensive package of maritime sector development measures aimed at restoring the fleet flying the flag of Estonia, increasing the Estonian shore sector and, together, restoring Estonia's international reputation as a maritime state. In order to bring ships under the Estonian flag, the principles of taxation of seafarers and shipping companies must be amended, following the example of other European countries, and the registration of ships in the Estonian register of chartered ships without a crew made easier. At the same time, it is planned to create modern and customer-friendly maritime information systems and a functioning and efficient customer service working 24/7 at the Maritime Administration. The target group of the tax changes to be introduced by the draft is shipping companies operating vessels of 500 gross tonnage or more on international voyages or passenger ships engaged on regular voyages outside the European Economic Area. The European Commission's Guidelines on State aid to maritime transport apply only to maritime transport, i.e. the carriage of goods and passengers by sea, which means that tax changes cannot be applied to fishing vessels, which are not maritime transport. The draft proposes a number of tax changes. Since tax incentives constitute State aid, the draft has been drawn up in the light of the European Union guidelines on State aid in this field. In order to implement tax changes, Estonia first needs to obtain authorisation to grant State aid from the European Commission. Next, I will look at the tax changes that will be in force. In the case of seafarers employed on merchant ships of 500 gross tonnage or more engaged on international voyages or on passenger ships engaged on regular voyages outside the European Economic Area, bearing the flag of another country of the European Economic Area, the labour tax shall be calculated on the basis of a fixed tax instead of their actual remuneration. This means that regardless of the person's actual remuneration, his or her remuneration will be taxed up to a maximum of EUR 750 per specific amount provided for by law. The social tax is paid at a reduced rate for the seafarer, i.e. 20% of the tax base instead of the usual 33%, and the seafarers have the possibility to use voluntary health insurance. In addition to social tax, the draft provides for the calculation of unemployment and compulsory funded pension contributions on the basis of the tax base, i.e. EUR 750, rather than the actual salary of the seafarer. Shipping companies will be subject to a special corporate tax regime, i.e. a tonnage regime, which can be used as an alternative to the current tax system. More specifically, shipping companies will be able to implement either the current system by paying income tax on the company's distributed profits or apply the tonnage tax scheme. In the tonnage regime, the amount of taxable income generated by an undertaking's international commercial shipping shall be calculated as the product of the net tonnage of the vessel at its disposal and the ratios established. Therefore, more ships are expected in the Estonian ship register, but it will certainly be closely monitored to ensure that only ships that are technically in good condition and meet international requirements are included in the register of Estonia, and that comply with international regulations and requirements in the fields of social protection and safety of seafarers, maritime safety of the ship and the environment. All these requirements are still being monitored by the Estonian state, but in the future, keeping the ship in the register will become directly dependent on the compliance of the ship with international regulations. As has been said, shipping covers not only ships flying the flag of the state, but also a strong and sustainable shipping shore sector. According to a pan-European survey carried out in 2014, one job on a ship generates an additional 3.8 jobs on the shore. Shipping is the fourth largest in Europe in terms of productivity and above other modes of transport, such as air transport and land transport. I would ask for your support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U3	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U4	Good manager! Good minister! In the previous composition, we very much adopted this draft. And my question, or rather, my concern, is now that this thing is not going to get hung up. State aid authorisation, as I understand it, has been put on hold, it has not been obtained. But my question is whether it will still be obtained and whether all the money ship that, with this project or this bill, should arrive in the country of Estonia when these ships return under the Estonian flag will get out of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U5	Thank you. Indeed, obtaining a State aid authorisation has taken longer than planned. It is allowed from Europe by mid-September, then by mid-October, then by mid-November. Today, the deadline has been postponed to mid-December. However, the procedure has gone on in such a way that it can really be expected to obtain authorisation in mid-December. As regards whether the ships will come under the flag of Estonia after the adoption of the bill and its entry into force by the middle of next year, we hope they will. We'll do everything we can for this. But first of all, this bill is still the basis for the fact that it would be conceivable for ships to come back under the Estonian flag. If we do not adopt this law in this form, there is no presumption either.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U6	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U7	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I see that we have revealed the bravest minister in front of Parliament after midnight and tomorrow morning at the 8.15 government meeting! But I would ask that, in addition to these tax advances, yes, maybe they achieve the desired effect, perhaps not, Estonia actually has alternatives to compete in the shipping and maritime sectors. For example, there has been talk about the e-ship register and the development of e-solutions that could be used or sold to ships from other countries as a solution. Can you tell me how it is? Has this progress been made in any way, or is this an alternative way forward, in addition to the benefits of labour taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U8	Thank you for your question. Indeed, the Maritime Administration is working on all kinds of e-solutions today. It is also true that here within Estonia we must overcome the so-called official barriers. For example, the ship's register, which today is part of the ordinary court register, should be transferred to the Maritime Administration in order to speed up the whole process. And this is really the place where we must also work in Estonia to ensure that one authority transfers the register to another authority. This bureaucracy must be broken. So, yes, in addition to changing tax laws, there is certainly other work to be done here. It's not the only thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U9	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U10	Good manager! Good minister! This is a really good draft, but the state aid permit does not depend much on us. But I hope you're right, and it will come to us. What depends on us, however, is that the Maritime Administration will be able to prepare these applications that are needed, and they are largely related to the e-topic. But, as I understand it, you haven't found enough money in your ministry to do what they've been asking for. I think it was half a million they got, but it took two. But since the fat milking cow is actually coming, why were you so stingy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U11	Thank you. In fact, EUR 1 million was allocated to the Maritime Administration for the following year. It is largely linked to the development of shore-based services and other support services. They did indeed ask for 2 million, but since it was clear that this law would enter into force in the second half of next year, we also envisaged a somewhat lower amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U12	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U13	Thank you. The Estonian merchant fleet was as incredible as it was in the Baltic Sea before the war. Now, if all these plans go as we hope, what would you see, or how many ships could there be, Estonian owners' ships that could come back under our flag? Today we have no more, 2014 must have left the last ship flying the flag of Estonia. How many of them could there be in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U14	Thank you. In fact, there are quite a few people that could be affected by this bill. We are believed to have about 10,000 sailors, about as much as we do in Germany. So, in fact, although we no longer have ships, we still have many sailors. All the ships? The ideal would be 300 ships, but today we can say that the ships of Estonian owners are in the order of 50 to 60 to 70. So if these Estonian ships were to come first, a big step would have already been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U15	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I would like to ask Sven Sester, President of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur. Please, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was last discussed in the Commission yesterday, 12 November, and we invited different parties to do so. Of course, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aas, was present, who gave the Commission an overview of the draft, assisted by specialists from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications as well as from other ministries involved in this particular draft. In the interest of the Steinogram, I note that the Commission also included Gerli Ehte, the chief specialist of the Maritime Service of the Aviation and Maritime Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Kadi Kanarbik, Head of the Employment Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the Head of Labour Support Kadi Kanarbik, and the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Kersti Autumn. Two gentlemen from the Maritime Administration were also present, namely the Director General Rene Arikas and the Head of the Development Department Eero Neighbouring. Mr Aas briefed the Commission on the draft. And as he mentioned today in this Chamber, a true story, this is the amendments to the draft adopted by the Riigikogu during the previous term of the Riigikogu just before the end of the Riigikogu, which are necessary for the future authorisation of state aid. As the Minister has stated, we expect the State aid authorisation to come by mid-December at the latest. Right now, we know that kind of heat. This package of amendments, which we have on the table today, has actually been the subject of the consultations held this year, on the one hand, by the Maritime Administration and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, on the other hand, by the European Commission. So, in fact, we know where the observations resulting from the European Commission's State aid authorisation procedure will end up. Some observations may also come in mid-December, and then these changes can be introduced. But what we have on the tables today are already known wishes, which the European Commission recommends we still do. The Commission also asked the Minister specific questions. It was sought to ascertain whether these clarifications were precisely those discussed with the Commission. The Minister confirmed that. It has also been examined whether there are conflict zones when applying for this authorisation, or whether it is a classic application for a State aid permit, which has been done in the same way in other countries. The Minister admitted that there is nothing unusual about this, this is a classic process. Rene Arikas added that there is so much specificity, however, that the Estonian tax system is different from the tax regimes of other European Member States and it is not possible to base the uniform analogue here. This also means that quite a lot of us in Estonia have had to figure out internally so that all the relevant laws can be adapted. But the process has gone well in itself and there have been no other problems than that, in the meantime, the exchange in Brussels between the Commission and after the exchange took some time for the Brussels negotiators to be fully informed about our wishes. In addition, the Estonian Seamen's Independent Trade Union lodged a complaint about certain aspects and it took a month to process it. The Estonian maritime community, however, made a change of heart, which disproved the arguments of the trade unions. It was also examined whether all the arguments put forward by the trade union had now been refuted. In this respect, it was confirmed that the Commission, yes, has satisfied them and that this can go further. There was also a question of what is the willingness of the Maritime Administration to switch to the procedures expected of the Maritime Administration if this law enters into force, after all, there is a need for financial resources. What is the readiness of the Maritime Administration? And as the Minister said in this chair today, he also confirmed in the Commission that EUR 1 million has been allocated for the project next year. Of this one million euros, half a million basically goes to the Tax and Customs Board of the Ministry of Finance, because it is necessary in connection with these IT changes. The rest of the money will remain under the administration of the Maritime Administration and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The request was indeed for a higher amount, but such an agreement has been reached at the moment. After all these questions and answers, the Commission reached a position. It was said, of course, that we are moving in the right direction and that it is in everyone's interest that it is a cross-party effort to make the maximum effort for Estonia to be competitive and to have a situation where we can also see cargo ships under the Estonian flag, which are currently not. In conclusion, the Commission took the following decisions: The first decision was to appoint a rapporteur here to speak, which was a consensual decision, and the second proposal was to finish the first reading, and this was also a consensual decision within the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U17	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 100. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 27 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U18	We have reached today's last item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law 103 on the amendment of consumer protection law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Mr Aasa, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, would you like the floor to be a waitress?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U19	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act and related amendments to other laws. The aim of the draft is to enhance the protection of consumers' economic interests in the digital environment and, in particular, to implement Regulation 2017/2394 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which regulates cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States in the detection and termination of cross-border infringements of consumer protection requirements. Today, consumers are doing a large part of their online transactions and the number of online shopping sites is constantly increasing. The sites are simultaneously accessible to a large number of consumers, regardless of their geographical location. For example, there are more than 5,000 e-traders today in Estonia alone and 119 million euros of e-purchases were made in August of this year. The volume of e-purchases made by Estonian consumers both in Estonia and abroad is constantly increasing. However, it is the case that not all traders comply with consumer protection requirements. More up-to-date measures are needed to quickly detect and eliminate infringements in the digital environment. The European Union regulation obliges Member States to grant minimum rights to competent authorities in order to ensure compliance with legislation protecting consumers' interests and effective protection of consumers' economic interests. In Estonia, the main competent authority is the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority, which is responsible for monitoring consumer protection requirements. Today, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority is able to exercise a number of rights under the EU Regulation under national law. The amendment to the Consumer Protection Act now gives TTJA the right to ask and receive the information necessary to identify infringements from any person, including the credit institution and the communication service provider. In the digital environment, it is not always possible to understand who is behind the website or mobile app and information from third parties is needed to identify it. As a breach of consumer protection rules in the digital environment could cause economic damage to a large number of consumers, it is important to put an end to the infringement quickly in order to prevent it. In the event that the infringer's identity cannot be identified or contacted, the TTJA shall be given the right to take measures to restrict access to the website related to the infringement or to display warnings to consumers. Apart from the inclusion of the provisions necessary for the implementation of the EU Regulation, the Consumer Law also proposes amendments to simplify the rules of procedure of the Consumer Disputes Committee. On the basis of the current law, the Commission settles disputes between consumers and businesses within a three-member group. The amendment will allow the procedure to be carried out only with the participation of the chairman of the committee to be dealt with more quickly if the facts of the dispute are clear and similar disputes have already been settled by the Commission. The amendments made to the Financial Supervision Authority Act, the Credit Institutions Act, the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the Electronic Communications Act relate to the right of TTJA to receive information from third parties necessary to identify or eliminate the infringement. The amendment of the Aviation Act introduces sanctions for infringements of European Union regulations on air passenger rights. The amendments to the Tourism Act make it easier for companies providing travel management services who only offer or mediate travel services provided in Estonia. Under the current law, an undertaking providing a linked travel arrangement must have a guarantee of at least EUR 13000 in order to be able to meet its obligations towards consumers in the event of its insolvency. At the same time, there is no distinction as to whether the travel service is provided only in Estonia or abroad. However, according to the proposed change, if this service is provided only in Estonia, the guarantee may also be lower. The amendment to the Law of Obligations Act clarifies the provision which limits the demand for payment from the consumer when the consumer calls the telephone number given by the trader in connection with the contract concluded. It is stated more clearly that in such a case, the consumer will not pay more than the basic tariff fee for the telephone call. This means that the trader must not use a short number with a charge higher than the basic tariff for customer service. The draft is planned to enter into force on 17 January, as the European Union regulation will also apply from that date. I would like to ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U20	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U21	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! My question may not have a direct link, but it certainly does not have an indirect link. For years, it has been said that the Consumer Protection Board is powerless to stand up for the interests of consumers. Is there any hope that the Consumer Protection Board will gain more resources or become more acute in society as a so-called regulator?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U22	Thank you. I have had the opportunity to work with the Consumer Protection Board since spring this year. I think this is a very good and competent profession. With this draft, they will gain more rights and opportunities so that their opportunities to protect consumers' interests extend. I think this bill will contribute to all of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U23	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Now I ask Mikhail Korb, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U24	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This draft was dealt with by the Committee on Economic Affairs at its meeting on Tuesday 12 November. Nine members attended the meeting and everyone was present. The draft was presented to the Commission by Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, assisted by Ms Kristi Talving, Deputy Secretary-General of the Internal Market of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Riina Piliste, Adviser to the Department of Product Safety and Consumer Protection of the Internal Market. The presentation was quite thorough, the discussion was relatively short but constructive. Members of the Commission were interested in the amendments to the Law of Obligations Act concerning the call tariff. Quite surprising was the date of entry into force of the law, which is January 17th, it is not normal. But we received an exhaustive answer as to why this is the case. It was clarified whether the controlled companies were located in the territory of Estonia or anywhere in the territory of the European Union, and the representatives of the Ministry replied exhaustively. The Commission decided to appoint a rapporteur for this draft and to propose that the first reading be closed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U25	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Is... Yes, please, Peter Ernits! Is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U26	Some of the more modest colleagues have asked whether a presence check could be carried out now. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U27	We don't have to do the home and working procedures check, but anyone who wants to do it can do personal surveillance. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] There's a chance. In addition to Peter Ernits' lines, does anyone want to negotiate? No, it's not. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 103. The first reading is also finished with this. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 27 November at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, Today's trial is over. It's late, but we can already congratulate our colleague Leo Kunna on her birthday. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Closure of the sitting at 00.41 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U28	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start our weekly briefing. Checking for presence first. There are 44 members of the Riigikogu, no 57. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Taavi Aas and Minister of Finance Martin Helme. First the speakers of the registered question and then the other members of the Riigikogu will receive the floor according to the order. The questioner can also ask a more specific question. The length of the question is two minutes, the answer is three minutes. So let's get to the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U29	The first question is Taavi Rõivas and will be answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U30	Thank you. My question is very simple. What will you do as Prime Minister to end the attacks by Mart Helme, your government's Minister of the Interior, in the direction of the Prosecutor's Office and the rule of law of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U31	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! I would certainly like to answer this question more broadly. Point one, I've always said that I think the DA's office is doing its job and doing it professionally. But some recent cases have rightly raised more and more questions among people. For example, the same case of Mary Kross, which, on the one hand, ends with an oportunity, but, on the other hand, Mrs Kross goes back to the media and says that no, she was actually attacked, actually she, I don't know, dropped stones, etc. This is, of course, a major problem. Next, when it comes to the prosecutor's office, I am completely in line with you in the sense that the political independence of the prosecutor's office must be protected. Since last night, I've been seriously wondering about the quote in the national broadcasting. I think it was 'Actual Camera', where your party chairman Kaja Kallas said this: 'Looking at everything he has done as Prime Minister, Jüri Ratas as Prime Minister would sell Estonia as soon as possible if he could continue as Prime Minister, and I think it is not in Estonia's interest. ' I'm drawing a direct parallel here with the Penal Code, which § 232 speaks of treason. It's an accusation that the Prime Minister is willing to betray the country at any moment. I think you now have the opportunity to test and show how the prosecutor's office is politically independent. If you really have any information that today's Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is willing to sell Estonia, Estonia, or betray the state, then the corresponding material must be submitted to the prosecutor's office against the Prime Minister. If you do not have these materials, then the only way is to publicly disprove and apologise from Mrs Kallas. I think that we can both show that our prosecutor's office in Estonia is politically independent and not biased. And what I've read today is that Mrs Kallas says she's willing to apologize in case I don't know how many 'if'd's are going to be there, Mart Järvik will resign. It's about the same connection that he's willing to apologize if tomorrow morning the temperature is below +5 degrees. If the leader of the opposition has said so, he must also take responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U32	Thank you. Taavi in Clothes, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U33	Good Prime Minister! Well, that was a pretty weird attempt to move the subject. I asked very specifically what you were going to do to prevent your government member, Mart Helme, from continuing to attack the prosecutor's office and the rule of law in Estonia, and I did not get an answer. I ask you once again to answer that question. And as for criticising the Prime Minister's work, I believe that you are used to it today. Martin Helme sitting next to you, if I'm not mistaken now, about the anniversary of the Republic, at least according to the social media, the Kremlin's tie page was probably the exact quote. I think this is a subject that you could discuss with Martin Helme later, but I think that, in this sense, too, there is no need to play offended for too long. I'm sure you're over it by now. And, of course, completely strange and absurd is that the opposition, according to your wording, should begin to test and that was your exact wording, the independence of the prosecutor's office by initiating a case against the Prime Minister, I understand, a criminal case. If that was your proposal, let's just say it was strange, to put it mildly. Returning to the question. I hoped to have a clear, unambiguous answer, that the Estonian prosecutor's office was not politically biased, that the Estonian rule of law deserves protection and that what Mart Helme has done is unacceptable, and that you will do everything to ensure that Mart Helme does not continue to attack the prosecutor's office and justice politically. My question is exactly what it was the first time. As Prime Minister, what are you going to do to end the attacks on your government member, your government minister's Home Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U34	Thank you. I have already answered you at least twice on the first question that the prosecutor's office is independent, and at least once that he is not politically biased. And I said that I think we're here, I think, in a position completely with you. So I will answer, honourable member of the Riigikogu, your second question in exactly the same way. What am I going to do? I guess you can stick to your words and say them out primarily here in the honourable Chamber of the Riigikogu, but also, of course, at other meetings when this topic is called into question. And that's what I've done. Now, the second part of your question concerned criticism towards me, towards the Prime Minister. I believe that you and I both understand that politically there is a struggle between the opposition and the coalition, that has always been the case. You alluded to what happened about the anniversary of the Republic. It is known that there was another coalition then today. It's real. I am not at all upset about this criticism, and I think that criticism, constructive criticism, is reasonable. I myself remember how the Centre Party for nearly ten years made constructive criticism in the opposition, and that is how it should be. But I raised a completely different subject. And this is what the leader of the Reform Party said yesterday, I think also the leader of the opposition, Mrs Kaja Kallas: the Prime Minister is willing to betray the country whenever he gets the chance. This is a very serious accusation. I really said, in answer to your first question, that if you have this information, it must be given to the prosecutor's office and it must be made clear how the Prime Minister will then sell this country out, or betray it, at the earliest opportunity. This is no longer just a national issue for us. This is a very important issue of Estonia's reputation in the international arena. I have a NATO summit ahead of me in December, I have a European Council meeting ahead of me in December, and the leader of the opposition says that I am willing to betray the country when asked, I must certainly give an answer. As we know, security issues are very important. This accusation either has to be made or it has to be dropped, not sneak behind someone and say that if, I don't know, Mart Järvik is no longer a minister today, or I don't know what's going to happen yet, that's when I'm willing to apologize. If they say such things, you have to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U35	Kaja Kallas, please, next question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U36	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking if it's okay that the Prime Minister is literally lying here right now because I have not spoken of treason. I said that the Prime Minister very much wants to be Prime Minister and is prepared to give up all principles, promises and values for this. I'm also asking you to remove this quote from the verbatim, in any case, I haven't talked about treason. This is what Jüri Ratas is trying to dramatize here to move the subject somewhere else. The question concerned what Jüri Ratas, as Prime Minister, is doing to the Minister for the Interior, who has called into question the independence of the investigating bodies. He replied that he believed that the investigative bodies were independent. But the question wasn't about that. The question concerned what Jüri Ratas, as Prime Minister, is doing to the Minister for the Interior, who is undermining the rule of law, who is undermining these principles or undermining the independence that the prosecutor's office and the investigative authorities hold and calling it all into question. The Minister of Justice visited us in the political group yesterday and confirmed that these claims of the Minister of the Interior are not true; he does not have any facts suggesting that the research processes in Estonia are politically dependent. If the Minister of the Interior claims otherwise and the investigating authorities fall within his or her competence or jurisdiction, he or she should have different evidence. If there is no such evidence, I will ask again what Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will do to the Minister of the Interior who makes such claims.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U37	Thank you, good questioner, Honourable Kaja Kallas! Yeah, I answered both Tavi Clothes questions about what I'm doing. I agree, of course, to repeat it to you again, for the third time. First of all, my position is that the prosecutor's office is naturally independent, and I do not see the political bias of the prosecutor's office here. I also answered at least the second question of Taavi Rõivas and said that I would say this in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, but I have also said at other meetings when this issue has come to the discussion. So I'm sure I'll use my word. But I must also answer the main part of your question, on which you spent the most time. I mean, I read your quote, Mrs Kaja Kallas, which you said yesterday: 'Looking at everything she has done as Prime Minister, Jüri Ratas as Prime Minister would sell Estonia as soon as possible if she could continue as Prime Minister, and I think it is not in Estonia's interest. 'A point one, I'm not already the kind of guy who pushes everywhere. Point two, I say this: no, the personal question of Jüri Ratas is not the main thing, but it is either a complete attack or a justified attack, if there is such information, at the prime minister of the Estonian state as an institution and, of course, personally at me. Now, you're saying you haven't said it was treason. I'm reading in the press today that you've even set up such a structure that if Mart Järvik leaves today, you'll be willing to apologize. If you say you haven't said that, what are you apologizing for? Then why do you make such a construction? I know that the Minister of Justice has really met the Group of the Reform Party. I have also spoken to him and he has confirmed that the prosecutor's office does not initiate politically motivated criminal cases. And in any case, I agree with him on that point. You say the Minister of the Interior is undermining the rule of law. I am sorry, honourable Riigikogu and Member of the Riigikogu Mrs. Kaja Kallas, but what you said in the context of treason is a serious attack on Estonia's reputation both in foreign policy and in domestic policy. If I have spoken several times here in the Riigikogu Chair that the word of a member of the Riigikogu has a great weight, that is what this case shows.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U38	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U39	We come to the second question posed by Indrek Saar, which is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U40	Thank you! Dear George Ratas! Politicians must constantly make certain choices of value, just as people do in life at all. That must certainly be the case, Mr. Prime Minister. You chose to withdraw from one value, which is to keep your mouth shut, and to act contrary to what you promised before the elections, that you would not bring extreme forces to the government of the Republic and that you would not form a coalition with them. You retreated from that value and justified it by believing that this way you could build a more cohesive society. You also took this as a flag letter among the priorities of this coalition, and you have emphasised this very much. True, it must be awkward to stress lately, so I've heard less of it from you. But it's still on your list of priorities. Yesterday, there was a vote in this Chamber. With your approval, Estonia was sent to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to represent Urmas Reitelmann. And the question is not that Urmas Reitelmann has obviously not yet understood where he is being sent, because yesterday on the floor of the Riigikogu he spoke about NATO issues with which ENPA has relatively few contacts, although it cannot be said that they are not at all, even as conceptual bridges. But this person has said that 300,000 chicks are parasitic in Estonia, and has also called refugees human waste and comfort roaches. How do you explain in this situation to the people of Estonia that this is how a coherent society is built? How do you stand for a coherent society when every time Urmas Reitelmann appears on a television screen, as the representative of Estonia in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, people remember these words?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U41	Thank you very much, good questioner. Dear Indrek Saar, thank you for this question. I have not retreated from my values, and I will not retreat from them either. I have made it very clear that you are suggesting that, before the elections, one of the key issues during the campaign was who is working with the EKRE and who is not doing it, I said that I cannot cooperate with these values. And the values that I ruled out are not included in today's coalition agreement, the values that the EKRE had presented. Point one. Point two is that today's coalition between the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party is, in my opinion, a good coalition. I think this is a good coalition for Estonia, best in today's context. And indeed, for me, as with the previous coalition, one of the goals of this coalition, one of the cornerstones of the connected society. And so it is. I think that today's coalition, where there are two conservative parties and where there is a left centre party, represents very clearly the broad-based choice of Estonian residents in the last elections. I really think so. In any case, I support and recognise the coalition partners, both the EKRE and the Fatherland and my party. Now that we are talking about NATO, which you brought in, it actually has something to do with what I said in reply to the previous question. If I am accused of treason, then legitimate questions about national security will automatically arise, questions about our allies. They are very much based on our allies. The NATO question is, for me today, as follows in this sense. NATO and transatlantic relations are extremely important for Estonia. The unity within NATO is very important, and it is certainly our security guarantee. NATO is certainly a united and strong organisation today, both politically and militarily, but it is clear that there are differences between certain NATO allies. Now, especially in the run-up to the summit, I think that all countries are making an effort to make this message of unity stronger only. You are talking about Urmas Reitelmann, a member of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu, as you know, elects the people of Estonia and they choose the women and men they consider right. There is no one here right or formula as a member of the Riigikogu. But I certainly cannot agree with the statement that there are 300,000 people in Estonia who are chicks, as you said, or that someone is a human scum. Of course, I do not agree with these arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U42	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please! [[Voices in the hall.]] Sorry, yes, Indrek Saar will have an opportunity to clarify the question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Don't, please, twist my words! I quoted Urmas Reitelmann. I didn't call these people 300,000 parasitic chicks. So I would like to make sure that this is fixed for the sake of protocol. There's no need to twist the word of the questioner. But once again, my question was that you have promised to build a coherent society. We can discuss at length and widely what theoretical representation of political forces in the government is good for this. But my question to you is very simple. How do you explain to those people who expect a more cohesive society and who feel insulted that Urmas Reitelmann, given everything he has said, will be sent to represent the Estonian state in gratitude? That he is one of the best sons and daughters to go to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to stand up for democracy, human rights and the rule of law? How do you explain this to the people of Estonia? I am not talking about international reputational damage or that we are likely to become an attack in this international organisation. But how do you explain the election of Urmas Reitelmann to the people of Estonia who feel insulted?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U44	Thank you. First of all, point one. I have not twisted your words in any way, I do not know, and in any case I agree with the clarification that you have made for the verbatim. You just misunderstood me. Now, Urmas Reitelmann has been elected to the Riigikogu. You know that the political parties of the Riigikogu are represented in the ENPA. Before there was EKRE representative Jaak Madison. After his election to the European Parliament, the EKRE has submitted a new candidate, the person whom the people of Estonia have elected to this Riigikogu. You asked me how I'm gonna explain this. Well, as here I am explaining, calmly and rightly, what this coalition is doing to achieve a coherent society. But I will also explain it outside the Riigikogu hall, by meeting different people. I explained how I would do this, for example yesterday, when I was in Lääne-Virumaa and meeting young people at the Rakvere Gymnasium, being in Lääne-Virumaa and meeting predominantly older people. I talked about what the government is doing to ensure that 1.3 million people in Estonia are as united as possible. I think, by quoting myself, I also said yesterday at Rakvere High School that our security begins here, this gymnasium honor, and expanded from the 1.3 million inhabitants, how united this society is and how strong this society is. And I sincerely think that this is the case. What are our activities? After all, these are the different good policies that the coalition is carrying out today, let it be in the social field, be it in the field of education, be it in the field of internal politics. All of them. When we talk about uniting society, better unification, the most important thing is human relations. But there are also certain physical connections, which are certainly related to the economic sector, for example, and are related to the environmental sector. We have actually debated a lot of these policies here in the Riigikogu. So these are the actions. If we look at the latest studies of the Ministry of Defence, for example, in terms of security, but also in the case of the various institutions of the state, we can see that the confidence of the Estonian population has increased. And it is very pleased that, as far as security matters are concerned, whether NATO or the European Union, there has also been an increase in trust among the Russian-speaking people. That's a positive trend.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U45	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U46	Thank you. Honourable President! Minister, thank you very much. The problem, in my opinion, is that you talk about values, but we no longer understand what values you stand for. And if you have said that the word has weight, then the more weight should be on the words of today's Prime Minister that he spoke before the elections. Whether it involves pensioners, minorities or whatever. You have actually proved in your position today that, in order to be in the Prime Minister's chair, because this is the only political opportunity for you to be Prime Minister in this association, you are holding onto it so terribly that you forget the basic principles and values that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia could and should stand for. You seek to feel sorry for yourself by attacking Kaja Kallas and putting words in his mouth that he has absolutely not said or thought, and which he himself overturned here. The point remains clear: the Prime Minister's chair is so dear to you. We know about history when people have had one thing so sweet that all other things have been forgotten, including their own values. And that's actually the problem of why these questions are being asked in this Chamber. If you defend Urmas Reitelmann, the question is not that he is the elected ambassador of the people, but that is the criterion on which people go to represent our Republic of Estonia. If there's so much hurting, ignorant, and insulting leech on this historical list, then you should let a man sit on the bench until we realize that this alkure has changed. That is the problem, Prime Minister, and that is why we are asking you questions about values and value choices. I don't think you're going that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U47	We're out of time. What about the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U48	That was the question. Where are the value choices? What are these?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U49	Thank you very much for this question. Estonia is lovely, Estonia's people are lovely. If you ask me what is sweet to me, it is Estonia and Estonia, the people of Estonia are really cute. Whether Jüri Ratas is a ditch hall or a prime minister doesn't change that love. That's why I answered Taavi Rõivas's question that I love Estonia. Lovely is Estonia's independence, which has come as a result of the smart work of our great-grandfathers and grandpas and grandmothers and mothers' fathers. We have political disputes in this Riigikogu, political debates, political competition. This is all right and welcome, so it must be in a democratic society. Five political parties have been elected here. Five political parties are standing by to implement their political principles, but I hope that, above all, it will be done to strengthen our country and our country in this way. If someone steps out of this political struggle and puts Estonia under the threat of an international reputation, saying that the Prime Minister is willing to sell Estonia as soon as possible, then of course I must respond to it because I do not agree with this statement and I do not agree in any way that this is what they say about me. For three years, I have done what is best known, just as I have sworn an oath to lead both governments here before the Riigikogu. I have also done so according to the beliefs of my children's room. And this has been about protecting Estonia at every moment. Protect Estonia internally, but protect Estonia also in our international associations And in no way can I say that this is now a political struggle. It's more than that. That is why I told Mr. Rõivas that it would be time to test and show that the prosecutor's office is politically independent if Kaja Kallas or the Reform Party had real facts that Jüri Ratas was willing to sell Estonia and betray the country at any time. If there are no such claims, it must be rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U50	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U51	Question No 3 is from Hanno Pevkur and will be answered by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U52	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! It seems to me that lately the boiling point has actually reached more than 100 degrees, if we take water, I don't know how it's possible, but at least it seems that way. This is particularly politically rhetorical. There have been different statements from your mouth, and there have also been different statements from your father about the Estonian judicial system. Last year, so that I am not wrong now, I took your quote out, you said: 'Not only me, but also a large number of other members of our political groups are contacted almost daily by people who bring us absurd and appalling concrete examples of how the Estonian courts and the prosecutor's office violate the laws, how the procedure itself is a punishment, how we get mutilated and vexed. ' It's like a place of concern for me that I wanted to discuss with you here today. In my opinion, this undermining of the foundations of the Estonian rule of law by the Heads of State does not make a good impression. In view of the fact that the people of Estonia should align themselves to their leaders, what might it be like for people to not trust Estonian law enforcement authorities? At the same time, the Prime Minister says he trusts the DA's office a hundred percent. Now two specific questions. If you don't trust the courts and the DA's office, but the Prime Minister does, don't you trust the Prime Minister? Secondly, can you perhaps give at least three concrete examples of how the court or prosecutor's office has broken the law here in front of the large Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U53	Thank you. Yeah, I listened to the debate on the first two questions, and I got the impression that I was somewhere in the twilight zone with a time hole. We are stuck somewhere in April or March when a new government was formed after the election results. And when I was here last week defending a bill and listening to the debate here, I got the impression that at least one party in this Chamber still doesn't understand that he's not in the government anymore and doesn't know how to act in this situation. Now to your more specific question. In this hall, there has been a call for the freedom of the word in Estonia as a slogan on its stomach. I think when the word is free, he's free for everyone. He's free for ordinary citizens, he's free for journalists, he's certainly free for politicians. I do not agree to live in a country where we have some kind of person or institution that is not subject to criticism. Iran, for example, is a country where certain institutions cannot be criticised. North Korea is a country in which no criticism must be given, and probably nothing can be said there. I think that there can be criticism in Estonia and legitimate political debate can and must also be a legal system. If there are doubts, doubts, reproaches, it must be possible to express it. You wanted concrete examples. The same case of Mary Kross or Mary Jordan is a very vivid example of how there is something wrong with justice. And I am not mistaken or lying when I say that people have really turned to me or to our party and brought their specific court cases, where I, who am not a lawyer, clearly see how the rules of procedure have been violated or how justice has been condemned in such a way that justice has suffered. Clearly suffered. I consider it extremely dangerous to this very democratic rule of law, very damaging to the cohesion of society, if we simply let these things go, do not talk about them, do not try to find a solution or improve them. But that's your advice: We'll wrap it up, we'll shut up, let it go. I don't agree with that, and that's the one thing I want to fix in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U54	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, a very specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U55	Thank you. Well, there won't be any concrete things, as we can see. In the case you mentioned, the court has also assessed whether or not to close the case in one way or another. In Estonia, as in other democratic countries, justice is enforced by a court. If one or the other party disagrees with the Court's assessment, it can still happen, and it is normal in a democratic country that not everyone has to accept the court's judgment. However, I do not understand that if you disagree with one decision or another, you will assume the role of evaluator. In this sense, I agree that the word is free, but let us also take into account the fact that the word has power, especially in your current position. If you say either you or the head of your party, the father and the Minister of the Interior, that this is a political order or that the court or prosecutor's office is breaking the law, then this is where you really need to present the specific facts in which cases this is the case. You can't stay on top of your estimates. And please make a distinction between criticism and a specific accusation or accusation. I still come back to asking for examples. Okay, if you don't want to give me specific examples of violation of the law, I asked you about violations of the law, give me concrete examples, at least if you think that the courts and the prosecutor's office have dealt with political orders. Give me at least three examples or evidence or arguments in which the court or prosecutor's office has dealt with a political order. And stay within the scope of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U56	Thank you. I think, of course, that these examples can be cited and are largely estimated. Well, I can give you an example of how there was an assistant mayor in Tartu who has been shaken up in court, he has written a book about it, and ultimately because of a 9-euro bill. We can talk here, for example, about the chairman of a party who has been shaken up in court, and in the end nothing has come from there, but now he is being shaken up, splattering him with some kind of tax claim. All of this hurts people's sense of justice and does not give a good impression of the fairness and balance of the whole system. But maybe it doesn't make sense to go to individual cases. I agree that each court ruling is likely to have one party who is not satisfied with the result. It's built into the system. But we're not talking about it. We are talking about how we can see how things are not systematically initiated in some cases. I will again give a concrete example, this is Indrek Tarand, against whom nothing was initiated, even though he clearly violated the law. And on other occasions, we see how things get started over and over again. With such a discretionary right, it is the same discretionary right that we are talking about, no one should accept such a discretionary right. None of us should accept. That is what the rule of law means: everyone is equal before the law. No one will be treated worse or better because of how he seems to us as a human being, whether he is, I don't know, in the opposition or in the coalition, whether he is rich or poor. You shouldn't let that happen. This fight we have, what I have, is the fight for justice. And it's completely perilous that this fight is being attacked as an attempt to dismantle the rule of law. Actually, it's exactly the opposite. Our party and I personally stand most for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U57	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U58	Thank you. It's awful to listen to you. You essentially say that you do not want to live in the Republic of Estonia. You want to live in a country where the party controls everything. He controls everything from food safety, the prosecutor's office, the police and the court to science, and if he doesn't like something, he takes the floor, and he always takes the floor in such a way that it would be politically useful for him. The parties were your examples, too. You point the finger at your political opponents that nothing is being initiated against them, but in the next appearance, you say you see yours being pecked all the time. Of course, I'd like to ask you what or who this pecker is, where this secret animal is, who's always working against you. But actually, this is the kind of communist worldview, the totalitarian understanding of the country where the party My question was actually generated by your body language at a time when the Prime Minister repeatedly said that the prosecutor's office was independent, politically inclined. Please comment on the Prime Minister's completely incomprehensible claim, once you understand that the DA's office is tilted, chases yours and releases the others'. What is your assessment of the Prime Minister's presentation here, during which he repeated several times that the prosecutor's office was not politically influenced? In body language, you evaluated, but now tell me what faces you made and what poses you took when the Prime Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U59	Thank you. Yeah, I don't know exactly who our party member is, either Mary Jordan-Kross or Indrek Tarand. And I don't know what we're gonna do next... if we're gonna be here with tarot cards... in addition to body language expertise... deciding what anyone was thinking. This is certainly a very productive new addition to the parliamentary debate. Of course, I'm glad Jürgen Ligi's fantasy flight is as high as it's always been. What I was saying here, Jürgen Ligi heard the opposite of the cross and translated it to all the rest of us. I think it will certainly be useful in the parliamentary debate that we translate each other and give each other a new meaning to each other's words, as it really is. I don't think I can look at the verbatim now, but I think there was political influence on the earlier issues of this Question Time. But Hanno Pevkur was basically talking about whether we believe he is completely impartial. They're not exactly the same thing. I can very calmly confirm that neither the Minister of the Interior nor the Minister of Finance, nor even the Prime Minister, nor the Minister of Justice, can influence the prosecutor's office. We may think it's good or bad, but that's half of it. It is not possible to force the Public Prosecutor's Office into anything politically; it is not possible to deny him anything in Estonia. The question is, apart from this, whether the prosecutor's office or also the courts, the different levels of the courts, the specific individual judges' decisions are fair, measure all people according to exactly the same standard and are inclined, clearly serving only law and justice. I can't always say yes to that question. This has been our personal criticism and my personal criticism. So I think that if we hold this debate, it should still be possible to separate certain things and talk about them one by one.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U60	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U61	The order of the question is No 4, which is posed by Jaak Juske. Reply to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U62	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! A member of your beloved coalition partner, your good colleague, Mart Järvik, has abandoned the principle of legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and had pictures of both German and Soviet ministers hung on the wall of his ministry. I understand this is the new policy of your government coalition. If the Prime Minister listened, I'd ask you a question. So here's the question: when is it expected that the pictures of the heads of government during the occupation will be placed on the wall of Stenbock's house, including those of Johannes Vares-Barbarus and Hjalmar Mäe?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U63	Thank you, good questioner! You said ironically "loved coalition partner." Well, how much love there is between political parties. But I said in one of the previous answers that EKRE is definitely a good coalition partner. I said that I thought this was the best coalition that could be in Estonia today. I also said that Fatherland is a good coalition partner. Now, I understand what you're asking. Sometimes pictures speak more than a thousand words, as they say. I guess we all come from somewhere in our personal experience. I remember how it was for me to start working at Stenbock's house after Taavi's garment. There are very beautifully presented portraits of state elders from before World War II. I came back from a local government where there was also this kind of wall of photographs, not paintings, but photographs. As far as I know, if I am not mistaken, there are photographs of all the mayors of Tallinn, regardless of the age in which they have been in office during the occupation, during the first Estonian Republic or restored independence in Estonia. Since you asked about Stenbock's house, in 2017 before August 20th, I remember, a very beautiful event was held there and a wall was opened, which also depicts the heads of state and prime ministers of the Republic of Estonia who restored independence. If I'm not mistaken, this line starts with Edgar Savisaar and ends with Tavi Clothes. Well, they don't put in a sitting minister, even though there's a slightly different tradition here in the Riigikogu, but I don't think it has to be like this in Stenbock's house. Your question was whether I was going to tell the State Chancellery to do everything. My wish was to put photographs of the Estonian Prime Ministers who restored their independence. Really, they're not paintings. They're photographs. I thought the State Chancellery was very beautiful, and after all, it was the initiative of the then Secretary of State, Heiki Lood, that I might, of course, be mistaken, in which case I apologise to him, I do not know exactly that the Prime Ministers who were Prime Ministers in exile were also placed there. And that's really great. This photo wall is in the back of Stenbock's house. So I've been acting like this, but I'm saying that I remember how the City Government of Tallinn, if I'm not mistaken, Vabaduse väljak 7 So they're different and the handwriting's different, Mr. Juske.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U64	Thank you. Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U65	Prime Minister! I'm sure one day your picture will be put on the wall of Stenbock's house. I am, of course, pleased to hear that the government you run considers the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia to be important when we talk about the house of Stenbock. I will now give you the opportunity to say from this honourable Riigikogu board that you condemn the behaviour of your colleague, the Minister of Rural Affairs, in relation to these concrete pictures and ask him to take down the pictures of the leaders, ministers during the occupation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U66	Thank you. No, well, I agree with that in any case that Estonia has restored its independence with regard to the principles of the legal state. But the fact that you're telling me that I have to tell the ministries what pictures or photographs or paintings they can put up there... well, I'm sorry! Every ministry does it by itself, and their handwriting is different. If one municipality, the ministry sees it in its own way, it will do it in its own way. The State Chancellery has seen it this way today. And I admit that these photographs of the newly independent prime ministers in the size of A4, they are not larger than that, are really linked to my initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U67	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! If my memory doesn't deceive me, then the Fatherland Alliance, who were also very supportive of you as a coalition partner, Mr. Helir-Valdor Seeder, took these pictures from there in 2007, acting in a very principled manner. Based on that, I assume you guys haven't had a conversation yet. But these phenomena actually raise questions. And while you now need to read SMS with great interest and there is no time to listen to questions from members of the Riigikogu, it is still disturbing that we have had to deal with why the flags of the European Union should not be standing in the White Hall all the time, while the return of pictures of rural ministers or agriculture ministers during the occupation is treated quite gently by the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, is this a new reality in today's Republic of Estonia, or is it a temporary cataract?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U69	Thank you for this question. No, I listened carefully to your question. I don't know, maybe we really need to hold debates on how to design walls and how not to design walls. I understand that, with this question, you and Mr Samke want to draw up this question again, whether or not, given the 51-year-old severe, negative, bad era, occupation, these images may or may not be there. Well, I'm saying this approach has been different. I do not think that the honourable Riigikogu should legislate on which images may be used and which images must not be used. In some places, it is perhaps even such a question of an interior design element. Now those flags. Point one, that's the Riigikogu's decision. Here in Toompea Castle, an apology, in Toompea Castle next to the Riigikogu building, they make up a single complex White Hall is definitely, I think, the most honorable room in which the Riigikogu has been together and where the government has been together. If I'm not mistaken, I guess it was until the summer of 2000. August 8, 2000, must have been the day they moved into Stenbock's house for hearings. But now the flag question. I remember that when this issue was discussed in the spring, a photo report was produced that shows how the Estonian governments have taken their first group photo. And they've been very different. I'm certainly not going to point out how many black and whites were in the picture during one, two or three prime ministers, but I remember that there were several governments in Andrus Ansip, the government of Taavi Rõivas, the governments of Jüri Ratas. And, you know, the pictures taken in the background of the flags were very different: where there was one Estonian flag, where there were more Estonian flags, where there were both the flags of Estonia and the flags of the European Union. If I'm not mistaken, aren't these flags in the lobby of the Riigikogu where I might be wrong, you know better. But, well, it's the Riigikogu to arrange where those flags are. You see, I am very happy that blue black and white has been brought to this Chamber. And I remember there were some serious disputes back then. A member of your party, I think Mr Kalev Lillo was one of the main ones who then stood for blue black and white to be brought to this hall. Some formations back were a lot of argument. So the beautiful flags are in the White Hall, the beautiful, the most beautiful flags that can be. But that does not mean that we are not suddenly, I do not know, in the European Union or NATO. You can't read that out of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U70	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U71	Next, question No 5 by Jüri Jaanson. Reply by Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U72	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, It has happened that, at the request of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, on 4 November, during the second reading of the Maritime Safety Act, the Economic Commission urgently included in the draft law amendments to the railway law extending for a new five-year period the derogations to the obligations imposed on railway undertakings by the European Community Regulation. Among the exceptions to be extended are Article 22 of the Regulation, which obliges railway undertakings to provide full assistance to persons with disabilities at railway stations. Unfortunately, in the Committee on Economic Affairs, after the second reading of the Maritime Safety Act and the adoption of decisions, it became clear that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications regrettably, in the preparation of the new railway law and in the preparation of the extension of derogations, the target group to which these amendments have a significant impact has been excluded. These are disabled people and their representative organisation, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. I am very pleased that yesterday, just yesterday afternoon, just before today's final vote on the Maritime Safety Act, the parties, i.e. the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the CEO of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, finally met in the Committee on Economic Affairs. And after a big, big debate, a tripartite agreement was reached. Minister, I would like to ask you to express the content of this agreement now reached by the Ministry for a public verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U73	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, in order to eliminate this unfortunate omission, that the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People was unfortunately excluded during the discussion of a law, I would say so much to clarify that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications agreed this law with the Ministry of Social Affairs. Having obtained coordination there, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications assumed that the Ministry of Social Affairs had negotiated it with other interest groups. However, it turned out that this was not the case. And indeed, yesterday the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu met to discuss this issue. I am very grateful that this debate was conducted there and that there was also an agreement that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, whose representative I was, had a certain task indeed. And let this task be fixed in the verbatim, just as you want it to be, we are really going to stick to this task. There is a railway law coming into operation in the Riigikogu, the aim is to process it at the beginning of the new year and it should enter into force on 16 June next year. Before being sent to the Riigikogu, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, together with both sides, will examine the possibilities of the content of the item asking for extension with both railway undertakings and the Chamber of People with Disabilities. The extension was asked for five years, but, as we said yesterday, this certainly does not mean that the issue of disabled people will remain on the shelf for five years. The aim is still to move forward with this as soon as possible. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will definitely contact interested parties and try to find a possible solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U74	Thank you. Specific question, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U75	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Yes, indeed, what has happened is a regrettable lesson for all parties involved. All the more so, it became clear that the Ministry of Social Affairs has also not contacted the representative organisation of persons with disabilities, and they have not been aware of the processing of this railway law and the processing of the extension of derogations. The extension was otherwise processed for a second time. The first five-year deadline expires immediately, on 3 December, and it is now intended to implement this second extension period. It is clear that, of course, the representative organisations of our various target groups, interest groups, are not so wealthy in society or do not have enough resources to be able to monitor everything that is happening in the government sector, including details of legislation. And therefore, as a second question, I would ask you very generally, how do you view this situation in terms of the future: who and how should actually be responsible for making sure that affected target groups are involved in the process of dealing with draft laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U76	Thank you. We will definitely negotiate this subject at the Ministry's working meeting. So far, as far as I have come to sign documents, I have sent them to a coordination circle that has covered various interest groups. There have also been drafts that describe the coordination process. And indeed, this coordination circle includes not only ministries, but also interest groups. Why did the law go down like that? Well, we'll have to explain that. Secondly, we will certainly also review in the Ministry how to organise coordination in the various laws to really reach all stakeholders. On the one hand, it is really reasonable to communicate with ministries on the resource side, on the other hand, as this case has shown, it may not be enough for everyone to be able to express their interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U77	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We're all people and we're all wrong. It is very sympathetic that you are admitting here today the mistake that has happened and that you are doing everything you can to correct it and to enable people with disabilities to travel better by rail. However, I would like to propose a review of two other points in the course of the procedure for this railway law. In particular, the other exceptions: one is the obligation to pay an advance of EUR 21000 which the railway undertaking would have to pay to its loved ones in the event of a passenger's death, and the other is that, if trains are delayed, Elron should take care of those passengers who are missing a follow-up journey. This is particularly important when it comes to minors. Could you think about it because it is not really a considerable cost for Elron compared to the amount of funding that the state makes for both Estonian Railways and Elron in order to organise train traffic as subsidies? I'm sure you already know it's a dozen million.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U79	Thank you. The fact that some exceptions are being requested and the extension of these derogations does not necessarily mean that these issues should not be dealt with further and that they should remain on hold for five years. There is no doubt that the points for which an extension has been requested must also move forward, not wait five years and start only in the last year, I do not know, miraculously, because the deadline is suddenly coming. Certainly, the Ministry and our railway companies will have to continue to deal with these issues, just as with the issue of aiders mentioned in the previous paragraph. On this last point, I would say this more than we discussed yesterday, this information was not in the Committee on Economic Affairs at the time, that it would be easier to organise assistance on a platform with a waiting room. Today we have platforms or railway stations 13: Kiisa, Kohila, Rapla, Lelle, Türi, Viljandi, then Kehra, Tapa, Narva, Tamsalu and Tartu, and Koidula and Valga. I think these are the places where this service can be implemented faster or better. We must then negotiate with the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People about other places. But we certainly need to move forward on these points, because, in fact, the directives adopted in the European Union have been adopted in a meaningful way, so that someone better lives, easier to move. It certainly cannot be dealt with bureaucraticly by delaying something until the last moment. These points are there for the sake of the people, and they must also be implemented for the sake of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U80	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U81	The next question is Question 6. The questioner is Katri Raik and answers Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U82	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Mr. Helme! Yesterday your party partner, Paul Puustusmaa, asked whether there should be a woman in the delegations of international organisations. And this is where I wondered if your party would treat women and male ministers equally. I'll explain. If Minister Kert Kingo was wrong, as vice-chairman of the party, you assured me that the lie had no place in the government. Minister Kingo has resigned with dignity. In the case of Minister Järvik, there are now more questions than there may have been in the case of any other minister. We all hope to find out soon enough. The Special Committee on Corruption will also seek to contribute to this tomorrow morning in an extraordinary session. In addition, Minister Järvik questioned the authority of the Prime Minister. Your Prime Minister's authority. True, he apologized. However, apology has been accompanied in previous years by resignation in order to ensure the government's peace of work. My question is: does your party treat female and male ministers equally?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U83	Thank you. Yeah, great question. I'm sorry your group colleague left, a big decorator guru. I actually wanted to find out if he was willing to invite people to his room to do some decorating. But all right. Our approach to the issue of equality between women and men is undoubtedly completely different in our political parties, social democrats and conservatives. The Social Democrats are always chasing equality for nothing, but we do not think that people are the same, or equal, in nature. People are different, and we believe that men and women must not compete, but complement each other. The most beautiful, better, and productive form of this supplement is marriage. And I think it is absolutely how to say now, without any hearing or eyesight, if you compare the circumstances of Kert Kingo's leaving the ministry with what is currently happening around Mart Järvik. You said you never had so many questions up. Well, I think this is still a very short political memory for you, if you think that the bluff scandal of this week is somehow bigger than all the scandals of previous or previous decades. I'm sure that's not true. In order to find answers to the questions, the Prime Minister has convened a committee which will examine the documentation and, if necessary, perhaps also discuss with the people involved. I hope that this committee will provide answers to these questions. I categorically reject the claim that Järvik or any member of the government has called into question the authority of the Prime Minister. It's just not true. So, in my opinion, you treat people strangely if you want to reduce all situations to a fight between men and women. It does not benefit either women or men, nor does it promote equality.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U84	Thank you. Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U85	My second question is in the field of statistics. Am I wrong to say that the measure of the departure of the ministers of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia was completed after the second minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U86	Oh, statistics, yes! Thank you. Yes, this statistics is true that this government has had two ministers who have resigned, both of whom have been part of our party. I don't know if it's statistics or politics or anything else now, but of course every party is trying to prevent a member of its government delegation being forced to leave the government. Surely people have different personal reasons, this may be a healthy reason, it may be a family reason. To them, we must all be understanding. There was a situation in the previous government in the form of your party partner. But when we talk about a Minister forced to retreat in the political fight, no political party will undoubtedly like it. And the pattern that we see, and which makes us very concerned or angry, is that the media and the opposition systematically select one of our people, one of our ministers, pouring dirt under a raging media fire and then saying, well, to restore the government's peace of work, you could now sacrifice him. We've seen this pattern three times now, and somewhere we have to resist this pattern. Now, once again, in the case of Järvik, there are charges and questions that we believe he has adequately answered. The recitals have been convincing. Not all of them have been convinced, including the coalition mates who still have questions in the air. To answer them, to dispel or confirm these doubts, we are now running out of time. The documentation will be reviewed, and then we'll move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U87	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U88	Thank you. Mr. Helme! This question started with a reference to the ENPA delegation. Yesterday was a very interesting show when your member was assigned to Reitelmann. It was proved that his human rights did not know what he was going to represent the remote EKRE and gave an incendiary speech on NATO. No one understood why. But an attentive listener noticed that these were EKRE's points of discussion. That's exactly what I heard on Friday from your Tre Radio, Kalle Grünthal. He justified the appointment of the well-known fighting left and always defending the Kremlin of the Oudekki Loone by voting in favour of it, and began to beat NATO, that there is Turkey and that is what Macron said. This is exactly the same thing that Reitelmann started talking about yesterday about NATO. Tell me what's going on in there. Have you decided to leave NATO too? Grünthal basically said it was a completely meaningless organization. He didn't say'senseless chat room', but on security he had the same points, the conclusion maybe more direct than yesterday on Reitelmann. Tell me what you think of NATO. Has Estonia again given up its sovereignty and must we not rely on NATO? I understand that we must leave the European Union anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U89	Thank you. As usual, Jürgen Ligi doesn't understand. As a member of the Riigikogu for four years, I would say first of all, of course, that I do not consider it appropriate to say that the sessions of the Riigikogu are performances. There's no show. There is a political debate here, often very passionate and sometimes more meaningful, sometimes less meaningful, but at least for my partymates, I can say with absolute certainty that we do not play anything here. We are here defending the interests of our constituents and our political credo. I have to admit that I have not read yesterday's verbatim report, but I just haven't gotten to it, so I really don't know what a specific speech has been like. But it is nice that the rest of the political landscape also notices that the Conservative People's Party is a united and united party. We're all talking the same thing. It is not as you do that depends on which member of the political group you are talking to about the positions of the party. We do indeed have common positions, whether they are presented by one, another or a third member of the Riigikogu or a member of the Government. That's absolutely right. And, well, that remark came in a form of criticism, but I'll take that as a compliment. Now, yeah, yeah, we're gonna get to NATO. One part of the reform party is a relatively common memo or a point of discussion that we are not a party supporting NATO, which is, of course, a complete mess. This is bullshit! We are clearly a party supporting NATO. We are a country with a very strong national defence stance, which considers both self-defence and allied relations to be essential. However, this does not mean that we should be blind or hide our heads in relation to the changed security situation, whether in the whole world or in a particular region, whether it concerns Turkey, or whether it concerns the changed political attitudes of the United States of America, or whether it concerns the inability of some of the large NATO Member States to contribute to their defence budgets. We must be able to draw attention to these shortcomings, because if we build our national defences on the assumption that NATO will come to our aid, then we also have the right to demand that NATO acts in accordance with the Treaty and political agreements. This is not a denial of NATO's role.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U90	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U91	Next, question No 7, which is put by Jürgen Ligi and which is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U92	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! Despite the fact that you set up a committee yesterday, a committee of truth, one thing is very clear about Mart Järvik's activities. Well, in fact, all these things are clear, which this committee must fix, but I am talking about the fact that it did not give a mandate for litigation for the interests of the state. Instead, he initiated a very long letter, a legal dispute about how it could be given or how it should not be given. Moreover, in the past, the state of Estonia has made claims at all wrong. I have read this correspondence carefully, I hope you will not deny it. It's been in the press too. I've given you these signatures myself, well, I guess dozens. Maybe not many dozens, but I've given. Without hesitation. It has never occurred to me to put myself in judgment's position. When the lawyers have come and said that it is necessary to go to defend the interests of the state, I have signed it. Mart Järvik did not do so in one particular case. Tell me whether, until now, without the action of this committee, you have found any honest motive why Minister Järvik may not have given this signature and instead have initiated a legal dispute. Could there have been some honest motive for not guaranteeing the integrity of the state in the litigation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U93	Thank you, good questioner! You said you couldn't read it or shouldn't read it, but I'll be very brief. In fact, on 6 September, the Minister for Rural Affairs has addressed the Ministry of Justice with the question of whether the Agricultural Registers and Information Office has a statutory right of representation to submit claims under public law or whether it can do so only on the basis of a mandate given by the Minister. The answer to this has also been given, in which the Ministry of Justice refers that, in accordance with § 441 (1) of the Government Act, a minister is a legal representative of the State in civil and criminal matters and as a civil guardian within the Ministry's jurisdiction. The Minister may grant general and special powers to represent the State in court. However, this paragraph is a general rule which should be guided in the absence of specific regulation, but specific regulation is provided for in the Code of Civil Procedure. The Code, in turn, provides that an application for a public claim may be submitted by an administrative body which would be entitled to determine the same financial obligation during the administrative procedure. You're asking if there are any circumstances at the moment. I am essentially sticking to the same words as the Minister of Finance said. He said that I had initiated and asked for an investigation to be carried out. This is done by the Secretary of State, together with his committee or working group, whom he wishes to involve. I've made an official move on it this morning. I informed him about it last night. So let's wait for the results. I'm definitely not gonna make any assumptions until then.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U94	Jürgen Ligi, a very specific question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U95	Thank you. Mr. Ratas, I got the answer now that there were no honest motives back there. There were legal hooks, which you read for a long time as hooks. I was just asking about honest motives. So they're not known. But please tell me if there are any honest motives why Mart Järvik has performed as he is in this food canal. Denied knowledge of the matter, having participated in meetings and even visited the company, and claimed that she learned about it from women on the market with a picture of strawberries on the side. Are there any motives that could be honest, because he got caught lying like this, and when he went to the defense of one company, he attacked an independent inspection and attacked other companies as well? One of the points that are presented is that I read all the time such claims that there really are bacteria everywhere and why they are not dealt with. It's as if that's why the company never had them. Are there any honest motives for attacking independent procedures, pointing fingers, and lying? And why is Mart Järvik always doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U96	Yes, thank you for your question. I'm asking you not to twist my words, okay? You want to formulate my previous answer on your next question exactly as you will like. I certainly have not given you such an answer. I'm also going to disprove it for the verbatim. Now, I understand that your second question has to do with this case of listeria bacteria. This, too, has been one of my requests to the Secretary of State to be found out. I have met the Minister of Rural Affairs, Mart Järvik, on this subject, also asked him these questions. He has given his explanations on this matter. And I'd like to wait for the results of the investigation. Whether it takes a week or ten days, I really can't tell you. But, well, until it takes ten days, maybe a little less. Depends on how quickly the investigation will be conducted. Now, if you will allow me, honourable member of the Riigikogu, I certainly want to take this opportunity to say that when we talk about the outbreak of listeries and the dangers both in this particular company and in the wider sense, there is one very important principle that we all need to protect. It is a food safety principle, it is a safety for human health, for people's lives. This is what we must all work together to ensure that food products with such bacteria, food and food do not reach wholesale or retail outlets, do not reach the shops. And as far as I know, the agency meets this particular company M.V. Wool quite constantly. This company has been taken under special surveillance and it applies the zero tolerance principle that I said last time in replying here. So the case is serious and every effort must be made to prevent such bacteria from reaching the human table.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U97	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! At the beginning of your responses or speeches today, you described how you trust the prosecutor's office, and now you have created a new Commission that should carry out a parallel investigation. In fact, both the people in this room and the public want to understand what you're trying to figure out. If you have looked at this sequence of information that has already come to the public, it is quite difficult and even a little pointless to argue about what individual legal nuances were. But if we take apart today's Postman, it's actually going to clear up a lot. And I assume that the Prime Minister, too, has clearly cleared up the picture. This is about values, attitudes, understanding, conflict of interest. When I followed the first studio in Estonian Television yesterday, Mart Järvik had to answer the question as to whether he would understand that there is a problem when his advisor consults and advises the company or business operator who actually has to go to court and argue with the state at the same time. He took a double position, and it's opaque. Do you understand that this is a very clear ethical question and should not be given to the Secretary of State? This ethics is actually in your head or your feelings. Do we not need to tell the honourable minister today that our cooperation has ended by this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U99	Yes, thank you. No, I do not think that the Head of Government should not use these possibilities to ask for further clarification. I believe that the explanation I have asked for from the Secretary of State is very likely to be faster in terms of pace. However, it certainly cannot be as thorough as it might be in the case of the prosecutor's office. And I think this is where we need to find out. That's what I've been asking for. It's like I don't understand whether you're saying that I shouldn't trust the state department or that I shouldn't trust the Secretary of State to ask for his help. I don't understand if you're gonna blow the state department or question it. I hope you didn't do it, but I kind of get the impression that you're disparaging. A chance to ask for help comes from the law. What have I done? I have asked to examine four specific points or cases in which I believe greater clarity would be needed, and this investigation was also undertaken by the Secretary of State. You're saying we should open the Postman. Now, on your question, I'm opening the Postman, fortunately, it's possible with smart devices these days. Well, I understand we all find what we want here. The first, at least in this online picture, is the same Question Time, see! But the next news in Estonia is about Kaja Kallas: 'I will return the words when Järvik leaves today. ' What do you want me to tell you about this Postman? And I also received this kind of information from Asta Bõim, The Fraseology Dictionary (Tallinn, 2000). I've been looking up what it means to sell. It says it means "treason, betray." So this news is now in the online version of Postimees if you want to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U100	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U101	The next question is Question 8. Asks Lauri Läänemets and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U102	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have a question for you, or even a small request, which you can resolve right here in front of the Riigikogu. I am doing this on behalf of my colleague, Katri Raig, who is chairing the Special Committee against Corruption in the Riigikogu. The Special Anti-Corruption Commission is meeting tomorrow at 9 a.m. for an extraordinary meeting, to which Minister Mart Järvik and Chancellor Illar Lemetti of the Ministry of Rural Affairs have also been asked to attend. The subject is an overview of the situation of conflicts of interest in the Ministry of Rural Affairs and its area of governance. However, Minister Järvik has informed the Commission that he cannot attend this committee meeting and come forward with statements before Parliament. Namely, he needs to be at the government meeting tomorrow morning, after that he has a busy day and finally has to leave Estonia at all. I have such a simple question and also a request: please tell us that you will allow Minister Mart Järvik to attend the meeting of the Special Committee on Corruption tomorrow morning at 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U103	Thank you. I could, of course, remember this, but I apologise to you, I do not remember this timetable from the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Especially since you said'special committee' it makes my picture of the meeting even more confusing. I can't tell by heart. I remember that the work of the committees usually started on Thursdays after the sitting. The sitting can be held until 1:00 a.m. and, at the request of two thirds of the members of the Riigikogu, may be extended to 2:00 a.m. After that, there will be meetings of the committees. Maybe the special committee will meet some other time, towards the morning, or I don't know exactly what to say here. When we talk about the government's work plan tomorrow, Minister Järvik is right. On Thursday there will be a meeting of the Government of the Republic, as soon as there are serious cabinet meetings. I would like to say here that today's coalition has very substantive and very interesting disputes. At two o'clock, the cabinet meetings will continue. Now, we want to get deeper into things. Tomorrow we plan to go to North-Estonian Regional Hospital by two o'clock, get a proper overview and discuss various social and health issues. That is why tomorrow is really the day that I have asked us to start the session of the Government of the Republic in the morning at 8:15 and then we will go straight ahead with the meetings of the Cabinet. So, yes, in that sense, if the Riigikogu invites the minister, then of course, I think every minister says that I will come in any case and try to do everything. But if this meeting tomorrow is really with a different starting time, because you didn't tell me what time your special committee meeting would start, then I can't answer you. But really, Mart Järvik has a key role to play in a government hearing. We will also talk there about MFF for the next period, the European Union's funds. In the agricultural sector, in the CAP, these are still very important amounts, what are these visions, how to focus Estonia's priorities even more strongly and how to see this distribution in terms of agricultural support and rural support or promotion within Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U104	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U105	Thank you. Prime Minister! You may have been looking at the phone when I said that time. The meeting will be held tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. And I also recall that there are, in fact, laws in the Republic of Estonia that oblige the Minister to come before the Commission and report on his activities. In this case, however, there may be the impression that the Minister of Rural Affairs is evading responsibility and speaking before the Riigikogu. I understand from your speech that you also do not find it possible for you to change the agenda of a government sitting, which is why you do not think Minister Järvik should come before the Riigikogu Committee. I ask again: tomorrow at 9 a.m., an extraordinary meeting of the Special Committee on Corruption will be held in the Riigikogu in connection with matters concerning your government minister Mart Järvik, and I recall that there are suspicions of corruption upstairs and that this is your government minister. I think it should be in the interest of you, as well as of the entire government, and of Estonia as a whole, that the Minister comes and gives statements before the parliamentary committee. Do you agree that he's coming here? Are you willing to let him in here? Because it seems that at this point it is his main argument why he cannot come.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U106	Thank you. To be honest, I do not understand that Minister Järvik would not want to come to the honourable Riigikogu or to the special committee to explain. He hasn't said that to me in any way. I will be honest with you that this earlier government hearing was set up quite a few days ago. Since tomorrow there will be serious discussions on the agenda of the sitting, for example on the second pillar of pensions, but there will also be cabinet discussions after that, we have really wanted to start discussing more thoroughly, if necessary, at an earlier hour in the morning. Tomorrow it will be. I don't know exactly when you've sent your request to the minister. I certainly advise the Minister, in any case, to come before the Riigikogu or the Commission, but it seems to me that this should not be the case. This is technical work that quite often goes to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, in my case, for example, through the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Officials are good. Trust the officials, they'll agree on that time, that's not the issue. That's not a question. Especially considering that, in principle, a member of the government has about the same status as a member of the Riigikogu, that he works all the time and is always willing to come when possible. But really, the Riigikogu or government sessions or cabinet meetings, well, it is very difficult to say. Especially since this one topic tomorrow morning, not exactly from 9:00 a.m., but I can't tell you how long the other points in the study will take But I believe the officials will find a good way. In any case, I advise all members of the government, including Järvik, to come to the Riigikogu to report to the members of the Riigikogu and, if necessary, to explain and come to the Riigikogu committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U107	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U108	Thank you. It seems to me that Mr Läänemets almost received the Prime Minister's consent, which he requested. But I think that this could be said much more clearly and, of course, the points on the government's agenda could be changed so that the Minister could report on his actions before the committee. And, as you said very rightly, no minister, unless he is on an external mission, has any more important duty. If Parliament calls, it will have to come before Parliament. I believe that this issue could be resolved, and I also believe that if Järvik has nothing to hide, he will probably appear before the Commission tomorrow. But what I would ask is how these things have evolved here, leaving aside for a moment all the details that these scandals have caused, after all, there are many of them, and obviously Mart Järvik could step back on them about three times. You yourself said that you did not get the answers, that is not an exact quote, but that was the idea, wasn't it? Or that doubts were not denied when you met the Minister. On this point, Minister Facebook wrote relatively arrogantly that the questions the Prime Minister asked were not questions from the Prime Minister at all, but were written by the Chancellor. In a sense, then, it may be estimated that he even mocked the Prime Minister by saying that the Prime Minister does not think with his own head. And then the minister decided to come to you with the subject of the release of the chancellor, to which several of your colleagues, who know the chancellor well, were opposed and completely understandable. Your coalition partner will speak ultimatum to you at all. In view of all this, tell me how it is possible at all that Mart Järvik will continue in office, and what anything can be thought of in this regard by the Secretary of State, who, at best, can identify facts, but not make a political and ethical assessment for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U109	Thank you. Honourable Taavi in the garment, good Javier! I will stick to this answer that the agreement between the Commission's administration and the minister's administration must be agreed on a time that suits everyone. In my opinion, the Riigikogu and, let's say, the government sector, the executive power and the legislative power have always been able to agree. When the legislative authority has asked for something, the executive authority has always tried to do so. Let's just take these enquiries, still trying to find a way to do it. If the minister's gone for some reason, they'll find another day. So I believe that, given that the Riigikogu works every day of the week, including working days, it will be another time for meetings. But really, this time it has happened somehow that this invitation, I think, came later when we set the date for the opening of the government meeting tomorrow at 8:15. Now, I come to the other part of your question. You say that you see Mart Järvik mocking the patronage prime minister on Facebook, pouring oil into the fire, as you said, and all the terrible things, right, ultimatums, etc. First of all, Järvik, as far as I know yesterday, said that he did not have a successful record in social media. You, of course, are also very, very active on Facebook. And he apologized. Apologized for the national broadcasting in the direct studio "in the studio," if I'm not mistaken. Now for the release of the chancellor. Estonia is the rule of law. This is a chance for the Minister to really have if he justifies his statement, and then in six months' time, the chancellor may be released. After all, the release of the Chancellors has been in Estonia. It has been 2019 and has been 20 years ago, 1999. I remember there must have been five chancellors back then, a lot, like a snap. There's a triplet. I guess it wasn't even a six-month rule then. So these chancellors have been released in different ways at different times. That right exists, but that doesn't mean it's being used. Now, you're asking me how to deal with all this. I'll be honest with you, I've always respected you, Mr. Taavi in clothing, and I have to do it today. I guess you can learn how to hold the government together and how to make different governments. I'll try as best I can. I don't think anyone told you that this job is easy and there are no challenges, and no one has told me that either. But in any case, today's government feels responsible. I think the government is working as a team. The government also comes from this difficult situation, I think, out, and the coalition goes on. So, thank you for being a part of this, and I promise you, I will do my best to keep today's coalition together.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U110	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U111	Next is question No 9, by Aivar Sõerd. Reply by Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U112	Honourable Minister of Finance! The Estonian capital market has been highly banking-driven. Companies finance their investments mainly through bank loans. And as a rule, banks do not offer equity investments. But pension funds do. Pension funds also offer longer investments than banks do. But so far the investments of banks' pension funds in the Estonian economy have been very modest. The change now took place because the previous composition of the Riigikogu adopted an amendment to the Pensions Act, which eased the rules of investment in Estonia and reduced these restrictions. At the same time, the reform of the second pension pillar you have initiated has reversed this positive development. Investment in Estonia by pension funds has started to decline and the limitation of investments has been reported. LHV Pank closed only the pension fund that invested in Estonia, merged it with another fund. SEB said that the pension reform will put an end to Estonian investments. Luminor Bank says that they will not make new illiquid investments in the local economy in the future, or minimally. Very undesirable developments! But I ask: how, as the initiator of your draft pension reform, are you satisfied with their first results and does this development meet the objectives set by the Pillar Reformers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U113	Thank you. It is true that I, too, was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs at the time and voted in favour of the same bill, even though it was a draft from the government that changed the conditions for investment. Broadly speaking, while in 2016 investments in the Estonian economy of pension funds were between 150 and 200 million, they are now approaching 600 million and this is undoubtedly a positive development. But I would point out that this fund, which you said it was closed, wasn't really closed, but it was merged. And this has also been done in Estonia before that funds are reorganized to achieve better returns. I agree that one of the most important economic risks of this whole second pillar pension reform is not so much the ability of banks and funds to cope. There is no doubt about that. The Financial Supervision Authority has carried out stress tests and says that there is basically no risk that our pension funds will become insolvent or that their'share' price will be significantly reduced as a result of pension reform. But this negative effect could occur. That's a risk we have to take into account. And against this risk, we must look for either a cure or a relief through the fact that, in the interests of liquidity management, pension funds must review their investments in real investments within Estonia. This is a concern and has been opposed by various proposals from market participants themselves during the preparation of the draft pension reform. I think that, in order to ensure liquidity, we have a number of compensatory or risk-relieving measures in this draft. There are also those proposals that were received in the public circle after the publication of the draft. We will no longer put them in the bill when we go to the government, but they will definitely come to the Riigikogu for consideration and I think we are very open to them. So we're aware of the risks. But first, the volume of these risks is quite small in view of the entire pension fund and the Estonian capital market, so they do not pose any systemic risk. And secondly, we've been looking for ways to mitigate the risks, and I think we've found them too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U114	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U115	Minister, thank you very much. That is what I said: the fund investing in LHV Estonia was closed and merged with another fund. The total amount of pension funds is 4.6 billion. And 600 million, as you said, is indeed the level reached by investments made in Estonia by pension funds. But that 600 million, by the way, is in the past. This amount has already come down from there and the same trend continues. But I'm asking you about what you said about coming up with risk-determining measures. Let me ask you more precisely what these risk-relieving measures are, which would reverse the trend or undesirable direction we are seeing right now. This undesirable trend is that pension funds draw their investments out of the assets of Estonian origin; they are industrial investments, real estate investments etc. over a longer period; instead, they invest money in foreign securities with greater liquidity, foreign instruments. Money grows abroad, money does not grow in Estonia. I am asking: what are the risk mitigation measures, what have you mentioned and what are being developed? And yet, do you take such a passive and carefree attitude, accept this situation, or do you have something concrete in mind? If so, please describe these measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U116	Thank you. I don't think we've taken a passive and carefree attitude. I think that both this government and I and all the rest of the ministries and colleagues and specialists who worked on this draft have been very active, especially during the drafting of this bill, not at all carefree, but concentrated on the outcome. In this sense, I would perhaps like to take a step back for a moment and say that the result must be measured in relation to the objective. Our aim is not to worry about the liquidity of investments in funds, but our aim is to improve the freedom of choice of the Estonian people in preparing for their retirement and gaining greater control of their assets. That's the goal. And there is this fundamental question: from whose point of view are we going to do this reform? Are we doing this from the point of view of banks and investors, or are we doing this from the point of view of the people whose money is being delivered? We probably have a completely different perspective here. We look at the situation through the eyes of the people whose money is being delivered, you look through the eyes of the people who get the money and then deliver it. I say once again that these sums, yes, 600 million seems to be large money, which is invested in Estonia, annual investments, still amount to billions. When we talk about this 600 million, after all, as you pointed out, fund investors have started adjusting their investment plans according to changed circumstances, and these are the circumstances that make the funds behave differently. Whether these behaviours are positive in the short term or in the long term, I think we can argue about this for a very long time. But the concern you are expressing is that all things have to be the same for the rest of their lives, because then there is no risk of working in the economy, but that is not the way it works. Now, speaking of measures, one concrete measure that we have put into this draft is a ten-year 'freeze period'. If a person joins a pension fund or leaves a fund, he or she cannot re-decide for ten years. This is precisely so that there is less commutation and less volatility. Another concrete measure, which has not been agreed, but which we are seriously considering, is an increase in the ceiling on the liquidity of the funds. It's 10% now. We'll discuss whether to double it or raise it a little bit more. This clearly takes off the risk that we will have a liquidity problem in the funds. But the rest is, of course, the choice of an investment strategy and it remains up to investors.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U117	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U118	Thank you. Mr. Helme! I have to confess my very strong national conservation instincts and views, they've been in me since I was a kid. I don't see them with you. I am amazed at your total indifference to the future of the nation, which concerns finances. Thinking about what will be important for the people in the future in terms of their prosperity, ability to cope, and preservation is greater savings, or the accumulation of wealth. This also means a higher pension in the future, and this means greater investment in the economy. Your own draft law, its explanatory statement and its impact analysis clearly state that your work will result in your pension being lower in the future than the range between a few and a few decades, depending on the details. The explanatory memorandum and impact analysis say that investments in the Estonian economy will be reduced, and they say, of course, that the future performance of the Estonian people will be more unclear, more uncertain, which is anti-conservative. Please try now to say that this is not really your aim. In fact, what you call freedom does not end with the facts of your own draft explanatory statement and impact analysis. Tell me your specialists don't know anything, and the National Conservatories like I don't know anything for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U119	Yes, thank you! No, I'm certainly not saying that our specialists don't know anything. On the contrary, I am very grateful that our specialists, along with specialists from other ministries, have made a very good draft. But I'd say that, maybe I'd call it a little bit off, that a 100-page explanatory note could only be picked out of a few sentences that say that there are risks and that these risks are both and such. It's like a concession. The fact that the whole bill is, in fact, terribly bad and will have disastrous consequences for us must make an effort to understand the explanatory memorandum in this way. I would bring some numbers that may also help people understand why we do not take such vastly long-term predictions very seriously. Well, let's cancel at all that we actually do not have good analyses to date, summaries of how the pension reform has succeeded compared to the assumptions and expectations that were at the time of this reform. We only have some summaries and reviews of what has actually happened. But if what was promised at the time has happened, everyone will be politely silent. Today, payments for the first pillar would be about 30% higher if the second pillar were not next to it. If we didn't have a second pillar at all, the disbursements of the first pillar would be about 30% higher today. It's kind of a computational thing. If we are talking about forecasting, today's EUR 500 pension would be EUR 2400 in 40 years, if the pension growth is on average 3% per year, EUR 1630; if the increase is 4% per year for 40 years, EUR 2400, and if 5%, EUR 3520. One per cent, right, the difference is more than a thousand euros or a thousand euros. But who knows if the pension will increase by 2% or 4%? Any predictions we make on a 40-year-old scale are at best, let's say, academic hobby. On top of that, when we talk about the current pension system, we pay more than 300 million a year. We take tax money, social tax money, and we pay 300 million into the system. However, currently EUR 15 million per year will be withdrawn. At the same time, pension funds earn a fee of EUR 40 million per year. This may all seem like a great business plan to you. It depends, as I told Aivar Sõerdi, on the shoes you're in. There are a whole lot of people, and I belong to those who think that this is not a great business plan and that continuing with this business plan does not serve people's interests. On top of that, I'd like to give you another number. With all these numbers, we assume that our retirement age will grow to a minimum of 72 years of age. Perhaps to get the money, you should work almost ten years longer than you do now. So I basically disagree with the continuation of this kind of racket.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U120	Thank you. I would like to thank all those who have asked questions. I thank the members of the government for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U121	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 8th working week session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. First of all, members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U122	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I have a motion to hand over to the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry, and the title of this proposal is 'The formation of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry to find out the truth about the claims of the Minister of Interior regarding political bias of the prosecutor's office'. As committees of inquiry are set up to deal with specific issues, the first task of this committee is to determine whether, on 6 November 2019, the initiation of criminal proceedings for the investigation of an infringement of an operating restriction under the administration of the Ministry of Rural Affairs was due to political influence by the prosecutor's office. This issue is important to the Estonian public; it is certainly important to all Members of Parliament, whether they are in the coalition or in the opposition. Every day comes different signals and data, we all want clarity in the end. The establishment of a committee of inquiry is the best method of parliamentary scrutiny. Understandably, this committee of inquiry has a clear time limit for this work to be completed by 1 March 2020 and, of course, the committee of inquiry is a member of each parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U123	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If, in words, we hear from the government about grandiose investments, whether it is a city hall with hundreds of millions of euros or making all roads four-track, then unfortunately, in practice, a number of important investment objects have been either postponed or even withdrawn from the budget. One such object of great importance to Estonia, which is even strategically important, is, of course, Rail Baltic, which connects Estonia to all other continental Europe, to which almost a quarter of a billion euros was allocated with the budget strategy of the country already adopted in 2016. Now, later national budgetary strategies have reduced these amounts from year to year. 21 members of the Reform Party Group have a question in this regard to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. This question concerns specific issues of fact concerning the implementation of previous budgets and budgetary strategies, but there are also a number of points of political assessment where we want to know whether Rail Baltic is not only a priority in practice but also a priority for the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U125	No more members of the Riigikogu wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Incoming check, please! 96 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 5. Now, get your attention! Messages. On today's 11th item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Flag and Ship Registers Act and the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws and amending the Income Tax Act, the Chair of the Economic Commission, Sven Sester, will make a presentation on behalf of the Commission. Secondly, on today's 12th agenda item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and in connection with this amendment of other laws, Mikhail Korb, Member of the Economic Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U126	Let's go to today's agenda. First item: Third reading of the draft Law on the Securities Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and amendments to other laws. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Securities Market Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic 28. Please take a stand and vote. 92 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U127	Let's keep going. Today's second item: Third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea and the Rail Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Mr Jaanson, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please. 5 + 3 minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The procedure for this maritime safety law, which is now in the final vote, has been accompanied by a saga. The introduction of a maritime safety law relating to the transposition of a European directive, which would improve maritime safety, is understandable to everyone and will certainly improve the flow of information in the event of maritime incidents, and hence maritime security in general. The transposition of the Directive has gone smoothly, with a deadline before the end of this year. The second is the part of the railway law that has been urgently passed on to the law, which for the second time extends the derogations applicable to railway undertakings by a regulation of the European Community. Their deadline is already on 3 December. It was precisely because of the need for a rapid extension that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications wanted to conclude a railway law with the Maritime Safety Act for one cluster bill. Then, as before, a jacket was sewn on the button again. With the Rail Act and the extension of these derogations, it is highly questionable whether it is necessary and reasonable to extend the derogation for a second time after the first five-year extension. The exceptions include the payment of compensation in advance by railway undertakings in the event of death, as well as liability for train delays, missed connections and cancellations. The regulation obliges railway undertakings to assume the responsibility for first aid and subsequently to settle costs. This should already be elementary in our welfare society, not to mention that the promotion and accessibility of rail transport is a priority in our country, but also in the European Union. A separate story is the extension of Article 22 of the EC Regulation. Article 22 of the Regulation obliges railway undertakings to assist disabled persons at railway stations. In addition to the wish to postpone the obligation to assist people with disabilities, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Social Affairs, which coordinated the extension in the coordination circle of ministries, did not consider it necessary to inform disabled people and their representative organisations, including the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People was not aware of the matter, let alone the participation in the proceedings. It all refers to dirty, sloppy, and comfortable work. However, I am pleased to note that yesterday afternoon, the members of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, got together, and after a major discussion, it was agreed that the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People will be involved in the process of dealing with the railway law that will be completed in the coming months and that the circumstances surrounding the extension of the derogation of the Article of the Disability Regulation will be levelled out, i.e. the application of Article 22 of the European Community Regulation to railway undertakings. I wish the Ministry of Economic Affairs the strength to do so. But now the Reform Party is voting against the bill of the Maritime Safety Act and the Rail Act, which is currently in the final vote and which could not be substantially amended before the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U129	Thank you. Helmen Kütt, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U130	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! The Social Democrats do not support the adoption of this law precisely because the Commission's procedure includes a point which is very much relevant to people with disabilities. While during the second reading of the draft, we asked questions about inclusion, the Minister replied that the Ministry of Social Affairs accompanied and they really thought-believed that the Ministry of Social Affairs had spoken to people with disabilities on this issue. The Chamber of Disabled Persons sent a letter to both the Chairman of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the Economic Affairs Committee, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, as well as the Social Affairs Committee. I am only quoting one paragraph so that you can understand why we cannot support this draft in such a procedure. 'We note that the good practice of inclusion in Estonia requires government institutions to involve stakeholders in shaping decisions concerning them in order to ensure the best possible quality of decisions. In doing so, involvement will be implemented in the development of policy initiatives that have a significant impact on stakeholders. EPIKoda, as a representative organisation of people with disabilities, has unfortunately not been involved in the drafting of this bill by any government agency; we received information lately from the draft, thanks to the initiative of the member of the Riigikogu, Jüri Jaanson. ' As a result, we also find it incomprehensible that the Commission, which discussed this draft and decided to add an additional point to it, did not even ask the Committee on Social Affairs and did not invite those who are largely affected by it to the procedure. Consequently, the Social Democratic Party does not support the nameless draft and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U131	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Safety at Sea and the Law on Railways initiated by the Government of the Republic 47. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 41 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U132	Let's keep going. Today's third item: Second reading of Bill 81 on Amending the State Budget Act 2019 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U133	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the preparation of a draft amending the State Budget Act 2019 for a second reading on 7 November. According to the State Budget Act, the Government may initiate a draft amendment to the State Budget Act no later than two months before the end of the financial year, without changing the total expenditure. Given that the National Budget Act 2019 has been drafted in the autumn of last year and that some funding needs have changed, necessary changes are made to the budget. No amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees by the deadline of 6 November, including 5.15 p.m. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday 13 November and to propose that the second reading be closed and, if the second reading is closed, to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 19 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U134	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U135	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! Well, now we are already in November and, more or less, we have learned what the real coming and real balance of the 2019 budget is. We know that both 2017, 2018 and 2019 were in a huge deficit, but do we already have an estimate of how big this structural deficit for 2019 could be? Or is it too soon to ask?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U136	Thank you. It's too soon to ask, yes. After all, it will be clear at the end of January when all taxes have been collected for the previous year. It will then also be possible to draw the line for the 2019 state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U137	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! If I remember correctly, there was one question about the same subject at first reading. This concerned an amendment to the budget for this year, whereby EUR 3 million of special welfare funds will be channelled to the development of the SAIS2 Information System of the Social Insurance Board. In the case of day- and day-care care services, the lack of money is catastrophic. How is it possible that EUR 3 million will remain in the rehabilitation budget and will be added to the SKAIS2, where millions have been burned and will continue to burn for many years? Please, can we make it clear this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U139	Thank you, Aivar, for a very good question. I remember when this bill was prepared for the first reading, the representative of the Ministry of Finance gave you the answer on this subject that, unfortunately, EUR 3 million have not been used up for the welfare programme this year. And the representative of the ministry said that one reason why it has not been used is that it has not been solved in every region according to wishes, because the service is perhaps not as good or has not been so many applicants. It was seen that by the end of the year all this amount would not be spent. The Minister has the right to rearrange lines within his ministry's budget and, if it seems that money will not be used by the end of the year, it will be possible to spend it on another line in order not to make use of it. Is that a good answer or not? I think that maybe there is somewhere where the work has not been done, because, in the case of welfare, we know that money is never over, always missing. But if there's anything left unorganized or unexploited somewhere, this proposal has come from the Ministry to this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U140	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U141	Thank you. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I'm sure you're smarter than you showed up in your answer to Taavi's garment. Of course, we do not know the current state of the structural minus in 2019, but the forecasts are very frightening. Please tell us what these disadvantages are, according to the European Commission and which, according to the forecast by the Ministry of Finance, and what is the government coalition planning to correct them. That is what the Fiscal Council has said since the spring that the correction must start now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U142	Thank you, good Jurgen! Maybe you can tell us about these numbers today. When I asked the Ministry of Finance, I was told that the amount of expenditure in the state budget for 2019 would not be higher and that the amount of revenue would not be less than that forecast in this budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U143	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Yeah, that's why I asked my question again here for the third and fourth and fifth time. We will have an end to the procedure, but we do not have any clarity on this issue. That's why I'm asking you that the explanation of the representative of the Ministry of Finance in the committee was... Well, he didn't explain anything. And now I'm going to read the contradiction again here. You said the service couldn't be provided. But in the explanatory memorandum to this same draft, this is now what was at first reading, not what is on the tables today, but the same is true, it says that the budget for the rehabilitation service will be reduced because the number of retirement age is lower than expected. What, then, is the problem with the fact that there are fewer retirement ages or that the service cannot be provided on an adequate scale? What's in there anyway? It really doesn't make any sense. Where money is disastrously missing, it is taken away and put where it has already been burned before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U145	I can just tell you what we discussed in the committee. The letter stated that the budget for the special care service would be reduced by EUR 1 million in connection with the projected under-implementation of the service budget. If the time for the introduction of new service places is simply postponed to the next year and the number of special care places around the clock has decreased, there is nothing to do, that is the answer of the ministry, and I have to believe the ministry's answer. Decisions to move money from one field to another are still made by the Minister, and if there is no money on the line, they usually raise it to the line where the money is missing. But I agree with you, Aivar, that the welfare issue is acute, and I think that the Commission should make a separate request to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Minister of Social Affairs, to perhaps have a better answer than we have received from the explanatory memorandum and the ministry officials to this day.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U146	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U147	Thank you. Honourable Chief of Coalition Finance! I asked you about the structural state of the budget and the measures you intend to take to improve this situation. You answered me about the volume of the budget. You don't think these things are very much connected. Try to answer again. What, then, are these structural disadvantages, according to the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission, and what have you done to improve this, taking into account, for example, the urgent recommendations of the Fiscal Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U148	Thank you. Jürgen, you're right, I didn't exactly notice when you first asked. But on the structural side, today is a minus, and next year, we would try to reduce the structural balance of the minus, as you know, by 0.5%. We hope that 2021 will be in structural and nominal balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U149	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 81. Thus, the second reading is closed and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 19 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U150	Today's fourth item: Second reading of the draft State Budget Act 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U151	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Finance Committee discussed the draft State Budget Act 82 at its meetings on 4 and 7 November next year. At the meeting of the Commission on 4 November, Raul Eamets, Chairman of the Fiscal Council, gave an overview of the Board's estimates of the economic forecast and government budgetary positions in autumn 2019. On 7 November, the Commission held a debate on proposals for improvement. In total, 33 amendments were received by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, most of which were presented by Jevgeni Ossinovski, Maris Lauri and Jürgen Ligi. We were also invited by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and all the amendments proposed by the representatives were heard. The Commission also made decisions and, although there were many good proposals, unfortunately the sources of cover were not suitable in most cases and no proposed improvements were supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U152	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U153	Thank you. Dear waitress, You have made a very laconical overview of the meeting in which we discussed the amendments, as well as of the meeting where the Chair of the Fiscal Council attended the committee. My first question is why you were so narrow. Secondly, my question is how to call a debate when the coalition simply votes down all the proposals with a completely dull look.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U154	Thank you. If there is a wish, I can also talk further about what we had in the Commission. I thought I'd give everyone a chance to ask. But when it comes to the overview of Raul Eamets, Chairman of the Fiscal Council, the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance is in line with changes in the Estonian economy. This time, however, the Board considers that there are more risks that could slow down economic growth. The presentation by the Chair of the Board also stated that according to the latest estimates, the structural deficit in 2018 amounted to 1.8% of GDP. The government is committed to reducing the structural deficit by 0.5% per year. The recommendation of the Board to the government is to strengthen the fiscal position. In addition, in order to ensure the credibility of fiscal policy, it is important that the government pursues the current budgetary rule in its policy-making and implementation in the longer term. Once it has been decided to amend the budget rule, it must be done in a careful analysis and not left at the last moment. When it comes to what was more important at the time of the proposed amendments, the budget for 2020 is in line with the rules of the basic law of the budget. The budget target has been set taking into account the actual structural position of last year and the forecast position for this year, and consequently the structural deficit for the following year has been reduced by a minimum of 0.5% required by the law. There was a debate on all the proposals. If anyone wants to know what kind of amendment there was a debate about whether or not to come to all 33 debates, it is up to you. I'll give you a chance to ask in the hall, and then we can answer those questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U155	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U156	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Yesterday, the Estonian Päevaleht had a remarkable interview with the Chancellor of Justice. He says that the Riigikogu has essentially already lost discretion over the budget and the budget has become so opaque that soon there will be only three figures left in the budget: revenue, expenditure and investments. But in the Commission, I have also paid attention to the fact that I am afraid that misinformation will also be given. I had a specific question about the 125 million euros allocated to Eesti Energia. When I asked, they promised to answer in writing. In writing, however, I did not receive an answer as to how this sum would be divided. I suspect that this 125 million euros will not be needed by Eesti Energia to build a new oil plant in next year's budget. I ask you specifically: will Eesti Energia start building a new oil factory next year? Will it or won't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U157	I can give you the answer that the increase in the share capital of Eesti Energia is planned as a productivity investment, which means that the state will receive more dividend income as a result. The financing transaction is currently not specifically known in advance as it will be definitively decided upon after the specific investment decisions and additional capital needs have been clarified. Enefit technology produces oil shale electricity and oil simultaneously, which is much more efficient and per unit significantly more environmentally friendly than direct burning of oil shale for electricity. According to the 2030 Energy Development Plan, investments in the distribution network may need to be further increased in order to ensure network quality and security of supply objectives compared to what the company is able to carry out independently today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U158	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U159	Thank you. Dear waitress, One thing is the 2020 budget and how it will affect 2020 but, on the other hand, there are aspects where the 2020 budget will affect, for example, future negotiations with the European Union in the context of the budgetary perspective. So when we talk about the same top-up of farmers that Mart Järvik accidentally lost, the top-up has been negotiated to compensate for the differences that are paid to some countries and other countries. Clearly, if we give a signal that we have traded this opportunity, but we do not apply it ourselves, perhaps we will not make these extra payments, then the next negotiations will say this: 'But what do you, the descendants of King Lembitu, here tory? '. In that regard, if you do not want to equalise these subsidies, why do you think that the European Union should want it alone? As former Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, was there a debate in this turnout that this payment of transitional support is not only a cost for 2020, but also a look at the future negotiations?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U160	Thank you for a very good question. Certainly not finding the top-up 15 million budget is a matter of today. At the moment, EUR 5 million has been planned in the budget. I can confidently promise you that right now, there will be a very serious search under which item of expenditure or revenue could be covered by this budget line. Now, if I remember correctly, your proposal was to cover it from the state budget reserve. Unfortunately, at this point in time, when we look at the state budget for 2020, the volume of the free state reserve is 15 million, and if we give up 10.3 million, I think that none of us in the Chamber would dare leave such a small reserve, because we never know what needs may arise during the year to use this reserve. But I dare say here in the booth that we are now looking for a solution to this issue. Whether in full or in smaller volumes, today is not safe to say, but luckily there is still room for improvement between second and third readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U161	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U162	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! My colleagues and I tabled four amendments concerning the funding of the professional year of clinical psychologists and school psychologists, the continuation of the research-based prevention programme VEPA and support for the child helpline. I see that the Ministry of Finance has mostly said to these proposals that the sources of cover are wrong. My question is whether you would essentially support these proposals and whether there is hope that perhaps you will find funds for EUR 850000 to support these substantive proposals by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U163	Thank you, Liina, for a good question. I have to make it clear at first that no one has the wrong idea. I certainly can't move any budget lines on my own. Ultimately, at least 51 members of the Riigikogu must support it in this Chamber. I can say today that some of the topics that you have raised, such as child birth grants, adoption allowances, are going to be in the debate tomorrow in the Riigikogu's Finance Committee as a draft, and I believe that next week in this Chamber as well. We may be able to resolve some of the concerns already in the course of the state budget procedure next year, i.e. with the adoption of this law, and they go back to the previous year or to 1 January of this year. There are things that have not been resolved. If anyone asks me if the social sphere is close to my heart, you know, Liina, that we have been together on the Commission, and I have a number of things in this area that I am dealing with here today, they are close to my heart. There is always a concern about making the state budget that there is more money this year than last year, but the Riigikogu has passed laws that put more than 80% of the state budget in the place where this expenditure will go next year. And what can still be decided and shared has become very small. I agree with the questioners that it will certainly be very difficult to propose improvements and look for sources of cover when we read today's budget, because it is very difficult to see what is behind these figures. I can promise that if I have the same office here next year, the budget will be much more readable. He will never be as readable as maybe the local government budget or the home budget, but he must be clearer, so we can see on which lines cost savings can be made, on which not. Not that you are proposing a correction, there is a statement that in some areas 80% of the money goes away, that the area goes down the other way. We will certainly look again at all the suggestions for improvement. I cannot allow it to be in next year's state budget, but we will also look at these suggestions for improvement in the RES debate in 2021's state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U164	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U165	Thank you. Madam rapporteur, you said that you would be happy to explain why the Commission did not support all the amendments and what this substantive recital was. My amendment concerned the withdrawal of 39 million from the resource efficiency measure for businesses and the cessation of subsidies. On 11 October, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, together with 11 representative business organisations, called on the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu in connection with the decision of the Government of the Republic of 24 September to direct nearly 39 million euros from the resource efficiency measure to other areas. Basically, it's gone to patch up budget holes. In their letter, they indicate that the withdrawal of EUR 39 million from the resource efficiency measure could fail to achieve resource savings of EUR 124 million and an increase in value added of EUR 216 million. In its letter, the undertakings also pointed out that the measure involved EUR 22 million...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U166	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U167	...reimbursement would allow at least those projects for which preliminary operations have been carried out to be carried out. My question is that, if I proposed adding 25 million, why did the Commission not support this proposal, even though it is very important for businesses and the environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U168	Thank you. I'm gonna start a long way, then we're gonna get to the end, maybe the answer. The total budget for the Resource Efficiency Action of the Ministry of the Environment was 119,8 million out of the European Regional Development Fund's main allocation. It's started very slowly. In the six years of implementation, payments have been made only 7.9% of the budget, or 9.5 million. The budget of the measure covers 48% of the liabilities, with a total of 62.3 million or 52% of the uncommitted funds. In addition, the resource efficiency measure will also provide support from the resources of the new period 2020+ of cohesion policy. If state budget resources are to be channelled for this purpose, a new support measure needs to be developed, which in turn creates excessive bureaucracy and makes no sense. This means that the Structural Funds grant regulation cannot be used to allocate public resources. In view of the above, these funds would not be able to be mobilised in 2020. That was one of the reasons that, as you know, when a measure from the European Union comes into existence, a certain percentage must be spent over a certain period and, if it has not been spent, it will simply be removed from that measure. In order not to lose this money for the state, this money was transferred next year to cover other expenses. However, 2021/22 can be reopened. The process of opening the measure usually takes at least one year. Just one reason why this EUR 39 million was taken away from it, at least to us, was justified at that point so that, if it is not used, this money will simply be returned to the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U169	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U170	Thank you, Mr Chairman of the Commission. You were talking about your heart. Tell me, is there a general budgetary position in your heart? Three years have been produced from structural minus, one billion Estonian kroons, an apology, euros. There's 200 million more in next year's budget. Worse still, hundreds of millions of euro have been written on budget lines in the coming years as if it were to balance the budget for free money. Don't you ever scramble? And aren't you going to do anything about this government's monetary policy? Such a thing is not sustainable, and it is not fair now in the RES view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U171	Thank you, good Jurgen, for a good question. If you look at the fact that costs are increasing faster than revenues, it is always a problem. We need to look at the budget and at the country's economic and budgetary position, at the financial situation with a little broader perspective. Both structural and nominal balance are certainly important, but we must also look at the situation in which the Estonian state is in relation to the rest of Europe. If our loan burden is 2.5 times lower than the next one, Bulgaria, and the European average is ten times higher than we do, then our starting position will also be slightly different. Of course, you must be thanked as the former Minister of Finance and commended for the fact that the loan burden of the Estonian state is as low as it is. However, one of the reasons for this is certainly the agreements we have concluded when we enter the European Union, the structural balance we need to be in. I have to say today that very many countries in the European Union are at the top of them the Dutch Parliament wants to change these conditions. So you have to look at the two sides. One is the structural and nominal balance, but the other is the burden of credit and the capacity to service the loan. This is an issue that I think should be said more about and discussed in this Chamber, because at the moment we are able, for example, to invest in infrastructure, if it seems that this economy could be revived by borrowing, but our demand for balance does not allow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U172	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U173	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If we look at this budget and compare it with a larger framework, a country's budgetary strategy, we will see that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has postponed a lot of major road construction projects. And the reason has been that public procurement is slowing down, that projects cannot be completed or that projects need to be redeployed, that there are litigation. But there are no problems with the new oil plant of Eesti Energia, as I understand your answer, it will remain in the budget. This will not be postponed, unlike, for example, the resource efficiency measure, which you said in your comments, that if there is any doubt that money will not be used, it will be diverted or the project postponed. I am asking: does today know that it is certain that this new oil plant's money of 125 million will be spent in next year's budget? You said it had to be included in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U174	Thank you. I never once claimed that this money would be spent next year. But I can specify that the oil plant project is already in the planning phase and that the oil plant should start producing in 2023. Pre-designing and financial calculations are ongoing, which is why the exact amount cannot be stated at the moment. Eesti Energia has previously been communicating that the new oil plant will be cheaper than the previous one, which cost 270 million euros. You also asked, I remember, at the committee how far the detailed plan was. I can tell you that the detailed plan has been adopted and confirmed. And you also asked how it fits in with climate policy objectives. In the case of Enefiti technology, oil shale electricity and oil are produced simultaneously, which is much more efficient and per unit significantly more environmentally friendly than oil shale direct combustion to produce electricity. The construction of the shale oil plant shall take into account the climate perspective known at the time of the decision. In this sense, this money will remain in reserve in the budget of Eesti Energia. When this item is launched, it will be used according to the cost this year, rather than spending everything this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U175	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U176	Thank you. Good waitress! We proposed to increase R &amp; D funding by 10.6 million, with the aim of creating a centre for applied research, which would be the missing link between science and entrepreneurship. Perhaps you will repeat what were the substantive reasons why this proposal in the Commission was not supported by the coalition or by a representative of the government? And what is the plan to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U177	Thank you for a very good question. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is developing a plan to create an innovation agency's competence for EAS in order to better advise and manage national innovation policies. This agency should be able to summarise the needs of economic operators and the competences offered in R &amp; D. It is also the responsibility of the Innovation Agency to start providing applied research in cooperation between companies and R &amp; D institutions. In order to offer applied research, the Government of the Republic allocated EUR 3.7 million to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications for the following year. In addition to making more effective use of existing resources, the aim is to set up an innovation agency with EAS. It is not appropriate to create duplicate facilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U178	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U179	Thank you. It is very good that you got there with this question because it reflects how the government responded to the proposals with contentless objections that were not relevant at all. It was the same issue of investment. As we said, MKM has been extremely inappropriate to do so according to the relevant study, so far it has been powerless. The recommendations are to set up an independent unit of external experts and local experts. Our proposal was to push this planned money under the Applied Research Centre and exchange the so-called financing transaction. However, there was fraud about this proposal, which concerned teaching Estonian to Russian children in Estonian-language schools. Instead, the objections concerned Russian - speaking schools. Why are these reasons not included in the explanatory memorandum to this reading?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U180	I can't tell you. Now, that's a good question... I have them in my explanatory statement. If you don't, it's a little bad. I'm gonna read these places in my record and explanatory notes anyway. If some improvements have been made somewhere and the explanatory memorandum has remained incomplete, then it should certainly be clarified and supplemented so that there are also answers to all the proposals, why there was no support: whether the reason was substantive or whether the reason was a source of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U181	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U182	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! For the sake of the context, we recall that health studies show that one in three schoolchildren has been depressed over the year, and one in five children aged 15 years has been thinking about suicide. According to our amendment, the country would need EUR 225000 to support the funding of the school psychologists' professional year, EUR 127000 to support the research-based prevention programme VEPA. My question is: how do you feel about the 11.7 billion budget not having the resources to finance these things, or is it a matter of government priorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U183	Thank you for a good question, Liina. Certainly the final end of the question is the right end: all governments always determine their priorities in which money is placed. But I have always told my children about the possibility of money: if you have a total of 100 euros in three pockets, then it's not online which pocket you're raising it out of. You still have 100 euros. And that is the question of priorities in which area more and less will be allocated. My personal opinion, not the opinion of the Commission, is that we have too much governance costs. There are places where costs can certainly be reduced. As the budget for next year is activity-based for the first time in its entirety, I very much hope that by autumn, when it comes to the finalisation of next year's state budget, we will see very clearly in which area the money has been spent correctly, i.e. on a need-based basis, and where it has simply been wasted. There are places where we should see if it makes sense to spend so much, and there are places where more should be spent. As far as the social sector is concerned, as you know, more than half of the state budget goes to this area: from the health insurance fund to the care services. The state has tried every year to improve and improve these services, but there is always room for improvement. And there's always a shortage of money. Whatever area, ask people if there is enough money, the answer is quick: no, I would like to get some more. But clearly, the draft budget is always the face of the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U184	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Chairman of the Commission. I, too, hope to ask a good question. My concern is the financing of rural and urban roads, which unfortunately next year, according to the draft budget, will be reduced by a total of 20%, or EUR 10 million. In fact, these sums should rather increase. I'm head of the government myself, and you've been very close to it too. It is known that this is one of the biggest worried children of local governments. And for me, it's not at all convincing that there is no money. I mean that the sums are going down, I am not talking at all about their increase. In the above case, the grant amounts to 10 million, while the budget revenue increases by more than EUR 600 million. There can be no reason that there is no money, rather be honest that this is not a priority for this government!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U186	Thank you, Thomas, for a good question. First of all, I would like to remind you that more than 80% of everything that grows in the state budget has already been locked down today. It is not possible to share it. Every time you talk about 600 million, you have to take 82% out of it, and then there's some amount you can share. You're talking about local governments. If we're talking about road money, I'm sorry if I'm wrong with a few percent of these numbers! In the budget, 17 million additional funds have been found for dust-free and state roads that pass through local authorities. But the other side: it should certainly be seen that in two years, both this year and next year, the income base of local governments will grow in the order of 85 million. What they do with this money, whether it's placed in road construction or something else, is a matter of agreement. It's good for me to be here. Eight years ago, 5% came from the country, as a support group, we finally traded that it was 10% a year. There have been times when 15% of the excise duty on fuel was due to be received by the municipalities, but you know yourself, Toomas, that in the meantime the Reform Party and the Socialist governments and the road money were tied away from the excise duty on fuel. I do not want to say today whether this was the right decision or the wrong one, but right now it is possible for the government to decide what action to take, what kind of action to give money to do. But surely the budget for next year must also be looked at with the view that one period in the European Union will end when the funds are distributed and the other period has not yet begun. This is a transitional period, where a number of important investments are being pushed into the next, the next and the next year, for the simple reason that certain items are being tried to build up for European Union funds and not spend state budget money on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U187	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U188	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In this respect, you are certainly right that if you look at the state budget presented by the government to us and compare it with the budgets of some local governments, their clarity is like night and day. If I had had to propose such a budget as mayor in the local government, the council would certainly not have passed this first attempt. A four-year perspective and planning is, in my opinion, extremely important on these issues, and it is in terms of cash flow that the budgets of local governments are in better shape. But that's my question. I absolutely do not understand the fact that money is left unallocated to an object with the highest traffic frequency and the highest accident rate, I mean the so-called southern circle, which is known to have concluded contracts and cooperation projects to implement it. All I have to do is take the money out of my pocket. And now it turns out that it will not actually be financed from next year's budget, even though the agreements were made in the knowledge that they would. What's the reason they don't fund the South Circle?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U189	Thank you, good Urmas, for a good question. In the context of another subject, it has been asked whether or not I have personal contact with it. I have to say, I do, I live near the ring road, just like any of your colleagues. But there are two reasons. On the one hand, it is important what investments will be made next year on the roads. This is the subject of the Road Administration: for which objects land has been purchased, where plans have been made, where the project exists, etc. The second simple reason for delaying this project is certainly that, while there are just 200 million road funds here, no one can tell whether or not this object is physically in there or not another European Union instrument for the new period will be opened next year. It is hoped that European Union funds can fund or co-finance such items.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U190	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U191	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! I will continue on the subject of the resource efficiency measure initiated by my colleague, Mart Võrguship. Indeed, the same 12 organisations, including all of Estonia's largest and smaller trade and industry representatives, have made a very thorough appeal and explained very precisely why it has taken time to launch a resource efficiency measure. They have also explained that the initial investments have now been made by companies and that closing the measure with a government decision and also taking away this money from the budget is extremely regrettable and leaves them in a situation where future productivity, resource efficiency will certainly be significantly worse. My question is: was this degree of generalisation the same, was it the same round talk as my colleague in replying to the network ship, when you responded on behalf of the Commission to these organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U192	Thank you. I have to say once again that when we make the state budget and look at the state's purse, we must not allow a situation where we have had the opportunity to get money from some funds from the European Union, but it will not be used, or it will have to be paid back because it has not been used in time. This does not mean that businesses have done anything wrong or have not been able to apply. Surely here, the authorities who have prepared this measure should also shake their heads. I know that at the beginning, this measure was prepared as such, that it was very difficult for businesses to apply for money. But then, when the entrepreneurs had perhaps been made more clear about how money could be obtained from it, according to the officials of the Ministry of Finance, it was time to say that if this amount was not used in full next year, it would have to be transferred back to the European Union. This was not to be done and by this amount the following year's state budget reduced the amounts of this measure. In 2021, this measure is intended to start over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U193	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U194	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! In the summer we heard a great deal of the Minister of Finance walking around the country saying that now we have to start building you, and finally we have to start breaking out of stagnation. I'm looking at the state budget and, oh, surprise, zero new big object compared to 2016. And what else I see: the amount of tea investment has decreased by as much as EUR 14 million compared to last year. Now we thought about what we were thinking, and finally we decided to come to the Reform Party to help, shoulder down, and allocate additional funding to the section of Kose-Mäo on the Tallinn road that had already been budgeted in 2016. But now it turns out the government doesn't want that money. How can we explain this situation now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U195	Thank you for a very good question. For the financing of the section of the mace, the budget resources are planned for the next year. Negotiations are currently taking place with the European Commission on the allocation of Structural Funds for the next budgetary period. EUR 29,1 million available to finance this site and the negotiations aim to achieve that the missing amount will come from the structural funds for the next period.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U196	You're welcome. That's a good question. Four political parties in this Parliament promised a transition to Estonian education in the previous composition. This was promised very categorically by the finance minister's party in four years, and our draft was vigorously pursued. I have now realized that the current government is the only way to maintain the Russian school that has been said by Mikhail Kõlvart. Tell me, which one is it? Does this budget provide for school education to be translated into Estonian, or is Mikhail Kõlvart right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U197	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U198	Thank you. If you mean Mikhail Kõlvart's press yesterday, I don't know about that. But it is certainly next year's state budget that Estonian language studies are allocated...... and also Estonian-language schools have been allocated money to support teachers. [[Jürgen Ligi says something about the hall.]] The salaries of teachers paid to all schools in Estonia have increased. The Estonian language is certainly a priority. And, Jürgen, I am pleased that today, on the first item on this agenda, when we were talking about possible share issues, apart from the Reform Party, everyone supported that they were in Estonian. Always be the same in your words and actions. We gave all Estonians the opportunity to participate in all share issues from next year, including reading these documents in Estonian. This coalition will certainly act with the knowledge that the transition to education in Estonian is a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U199	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U200	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm just gonna bring out the difference that Jürgen Ligi asked you. The Centre Party and its different forms of expression in politics speak about Estonian language learning in different institutions, we speak about education in Estonian. There is a very important difference. But my question is that I think we both read the news in the business paper that there are worrying messages about Rail Baltic that countries are not committed enough to the project. And our tribal brothers Finns, who have already passed observer status, are now moving back instead. Is there anything you know other than the statements from the Minister of Finance that we want to stay away from Rail Baltic? Has something happened in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or during the budgetary procedure to keep the Finns away? Or how would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U201	Thank you. I dare say clearly, however, that in the Committee on Monetary Affairs this issue has not been discussed either in the same way or in the opposite direction. No decision has been taken that one, two or three lines should be drawn down in the state budget. At the same time, I dare say that, in the previous composition, I did fight for all the investments that will be made during this period to be something that would justify itself even if this option were to happen, that somehow there would be no money in the next period. The investments that have been made should still be available in Estonia, whether it is a tram route, an extended airport or an architectural competition that has just ended, according to which the joint terminal of Ülemiste will be created. The entire Estonian railway network has been renovated and repaired with Rail Baltic money, many people do not know. The route through Pärnu is currently being designed. Toomas and I will discuss this subject a little, of course, one is Pärnu's man, the other is by Tartu. I'd like the high-speed train to pass through Tartu, and Thomas to Pärnu. But the point is that all the investments we are making today must be possible tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. So that no investment is what you and I read and talked about before about Finland would be lost if the black scenario were to start. We should not spend money in such a way that the Estonian people will not be able to use it after it has been achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U202	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U203	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable speaker! Correct me if I am wrong now, but you said that if you are in the same position next year, you will do everything to make the budget much more transparent and clearer. Can you suddenly state the reason why he is not very transparent and clear this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U204	Just so you know, there are two different sides right now. For the first time, there is an activity-based budget on the table. We discussed in the Commission and looked with a little smiling at the fact that all the ministries made their own section and these sections are just how to say it politely? be of different quality. We certainly want to highlight the best examples of how ministries have been written out of the budget. Then perhaps we will see that next year, when the national budget for 2021 is brought to our table, it is not the case that there is talk of a hundred euros and millions of euros being spoken of somewhere. It should be even. We should understand what investments will be made in the coming years, what the costs are, on the one hand, salary costs and, on the other, economic costs. The Minister has a clear right to move money from these spending lines in the state budget. I'm looking at Urmas right now. As mayor of Tartu or as mayor of Elva, he could not do so. There was a wage bill, and on the other hand, the economic cost, and if the mayor wanted to move something around, he had to go to the council with it. Only a small percentage could he normally do so. We certainly want to clarify this. And it must always be taken into account that, after the elections, the first state budget, i.e. a little bit, has been made, because by the time the government is formed, in most cases ministries have already agreed among themselves on the general principles of the state budget for the following year. A autumn forecast is also expected in August, and then the balance of the state budget will have to be achieved in September in three weeks, so that it can be handed over to the Riigikogu. This government has much more time and opportunity to make the next budget. RES discussions usually start in March, with ministerial proposals expected already in February. I believe that everyone in this Chamber thinks that the state budget must be more readable. This issue has also been raised in the European Union, once we have sat with the chairmen of the committees. This is not just a problem in Estonia, it is a problem in most countries. It is very difficult for a Member to read this budget, especially if you are not a person in this area. Then you might look at your line specifically, but you can't see behind the number on it, you can't see what this number is made of.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U205	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U206	Thank you. Good waitress! Clearly, clarity in the text also means clarity in the sense. If it is difficult to read this text, then maybe this idea is not even the clearest behind the text. On this point, I certainly welcome the plan to make the budget more transparent. As regards the quality of the budget, which was discussed here, the Minister of Finance is responsible for what document he brings to this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Each year's budget must take into account forecasts and priorities, and I think that this does not depend very much on whether it was an election year or not. The reason that I heard from the Commission was that a government representative who was hurting me was that no proposal was appropriate because it did not include activities that could be omitted. But it is very difficult to record activities that are not included in the budget. I'm gonna ask you again about this innovation agency. Let me get this straight. There's money in next year's budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U207	There's, I'll tell you by the head, I don't have the exact number at hand, there's some amount really there. If you want, I'll find this place and I'll tell you later.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U208	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U209	Thank you very much. I listened to your answer to Kristina Šmigun, and I did not understand how it is that the Fatherland, who has once wanted to put the budget balance into the Constitution, who has kept the finance minister's portfolio for a number of times and is currently holding the chairman of the Monetary Commission, says that the budget is so confusing and opaque that the new government has just begun to work. In my opinion, the Isamaa Party has been managing Estonian finances for many years. And my question is, why is this bill so confusing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U210	Thank you, Annely, for the question. I don't think I've ever said that the budget is insane. I don't know if the budget can be crazy. Maybe someone else can be, but definitely not the budget. Perhaps the question is whether or not it is readable, whether or not it is understandable to the reader. The budget is almost 500 pages. I remember well that when we discussed the budget, I saw that Maris had read it very thoroughly. I think he asked his questions when he didn't see anything behind the number. He read most of the information pretty well there. For some others, reading the budget seems much more difficult. It may be a little easier for me to do this because I have had the opportunity to participate in this whole budgetary process myself. But I was just saying that the government was in place in May, and at the end of May there was already a debate on the RES. Surely not all people are so talented that they immediately sense their entire field and know their own budget. Each theme takes time to enter and every coalition always has its own goals and desires. It is not the wish of one party to do so, either way or by the third. This is an agreement between the three parties now, which the state budget is trying to do next year. If there is a different coalition, then there are certainly different goals. The state budget is not in a bad position. Let us look at the cost and revenue side: the question is whether we have enough revenue. I'd like to spend a lot more on different areas. And our country's loan burden is still, once again, ten times lower than the European Union average. We have the ability to borrow, just the budget balance rule doesn't allow it to be taken enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U211	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The loan must be given to reasonable people and reasonable governments, not just for high season consumption. But if I understood your answer correctly, the Riga circle was left out only because it is hoped to be done with European money, all the other conditions have been met. It was like an argument. But some objects still remained and something is still being done, it just doesn't have a priority, let's say in Estonian like that. But another thing I did not understand: why did you not support the allocation of 1.7 million for the laboratory service in the interests of food safety? These infamous Polish strawberries, which are sold to Estonian strawberries, and the current listeria cases, are in fact very clearly affecting human health. It is absolutely incomprehensible that 1.7 million will not be found in a large budget. What was the justification?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U213	One reason is very simple: within the limits of its budget, the Ministry must decide which points will be important next year. You asked about the health program measures and health risks? Do you remember what a number correction proposal this is? What is this, a 16th Amendment? Food safety, huh? You just have to admit that you had a national reserve for unforeseen expenses as a source of cover. That was one simple reason why, unfortunately, it could not be supported. It would have been necessary to find some administrative expenditure for the same ministry, which could not be done. That was one reason why it was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U214	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U215	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Estonia supports the European Union's objective of achieving carbon neutrality by 2050. The European Union budget for next year has even been called the climate budget. So all these issues are a priority, and this is also because scientists have stated and made it clear that the longer we delay these activities, the more expensive it becomes and, of course, the less chance we have of success. You said that the creation of a new oil plant for Eesti Energia is one of the ways in which the current government intends to do more for the environment. Both specialists and I personally disagree on whether it is economically very feasible, in terms of the environment anyway. But I ask you, as the leader of the Commission, what are the other activities in this budget that really help us closer to the climate goals and quickly closer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U216	We disagree, yes, on the use of oil shale oil. There is a mineral resource in Estonia that can be used. Maybe we've left some things unfinished as a country. Germany, Poland and Hungary have received differences in the interests of their coal industry until 2035 but, unfortunately, we have not traded them. However, one of the major areas is definitely public transport by rail, rail electrification. We have talked with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications about the analysis of different options: the electric railway alone or the gas locomotive that a private investor is planning to introduce in the coming years. And then there's the hydrogen electric variant. It is produced in France and the first two test locomotives are used in Germany. The Ministry has agreed that their officials will be familiar with the pilot projects that are being carried out in Europe. We went with some of our colleagues, Toomas has just left the hall in China, where most public transport has been carried on electric buses. Surely these are the places that promise most efficiency. Plus repeating the energy efficiency measures for all buildings both now and in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U217	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U218	Thank you. Honourable waitress! With the economy, we have done well in recent years or in the last period, the population growth is not so good. In my opinion, each budget should include very effective measures to promote the growth of natural honey. I therefore ask: what are the measures of this budget that support natural growth? I have the impression that the government's recent policy is rather in the opposite direction. I will, for example, bring a new calculation of the parental benefit which came into force in September, as well as a draft submitted by the government itself concerning income tax on the recipients of maternity benefits. They have a negative impact on population growth. How do you assess this budget from the perspective of population growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U219	Thank you for a very good question. I am pleased to reply to you that, in addition to the fact that we have taken good measures in previous periods, such as so-called maternity allowance and other benefits, tomorrow the Riigikogu's Finance Committee will discuss a draft which exempts a natural person from income tax in order to improve the living conditions of a family rich in children and to increase the energy efficiency of a small house. There will be no reduction in the additional tax-free income for the child for the following year if the child receives a survivor's pension or a national pension in the event of the loss of the wager. For the following year, the additional tax-free income for the child shall apply from the third child. You had concerns about maternity benefit, adoption benefit and redundancy benefit paid out in the fourth quarter of the calendar year, in accordance with the Act on Employment Contracts, the Public Service Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, according to the number of months. There is now an opportunity to recalculate the tax liability by pushing part of the compensation into the next year for tax purposes. On all the issues raised, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has responded quickly by proposing amendments to the law to the Ministry of Finance. Now this bill has reached our committee. I hope to be in this Chamber next week on Monday or Wednesday to carry out the first reading of the draft and adopt it this year. Most of the points are retroactive, will apply either from 1 January of the previous year or from 1 January of this year, so that those who have suffered from some legal problems can solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U220	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U221	Thank you. Good waitress! My question is motivated by what you have just finished: that the tax hacker created by the previous government and continued by the current government has made life difficult for many people here in Estonia. At first reading of the state budget, when the Minister of Finance was on the board, I was a little surprised by his reply when I asked whether the people already receiving the average old-age pension were the rich ones who had to be taxed. It was surprising that the Minister of Finance considered it fair and right, not to mention, of course, the income tax of those who earn the average salary. If we look at the budget, we will see that this tax hacker or tax scheme actually persists and the problem is getting worse over the years. We know that as a result of indexation, pensions will continue to grow in the coming years, with the average wage rising well thanks to economic growth. Thus, people under the average salary and those under the average pension will also have to pay a lot more income tax. The Reform Party has an amendment to make the average pension tax-free again. I hope you can support this. But my question is why you have not thought about it yourself when drawing up the budget. Are our dignified elderly, our hardworking people really not a government priority?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U222	Thank you, Erkki, for the question. I don't know who's supposed to shake the ashes on his head now, but it's very simple. During the budget negotiations, there was an average pension exemption from income tax on the table until the last moment, but unfortunately it is that for the last almost ten years, efforts have been made to develop the SKAIS2, which has generated a huge cost over the years, but there is practically no revenue. And when we put it on the table, I can safely tell you that you had 22 million in it, but according to our calculations, the exemption for pensioners would only have meant 15 million. The coalition certainly enjoyed this exemption from income tax by far more than seven euros in the extraordinary increase of the pension. Unfortunately, the Minister for Social Affairs also said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that I asked him to answer this question so that this IT application could not be completed before 2021. Do we want to put more than 200,000 pensioners back on retirement punch cards? I'm afraid it's not real. And unfortunately, that's what got behind it. It was very clearly on the table, it was a priority, but at the moment it was not ready for this IT solution to come next year. It is not possible to do this application to the SKIAIS1 because the system is already on the edge, it is always feared that it might collapse some day. And the Skais2 development won't get that far. If we discuss the state budget for the next year in a year's time, I believe this problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U223	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U224	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! On the very subject you yourself touched, I thought I'd ask. I remember from the time I was Minister for Economic Affairs when colleagues Tsahkna and I think Vassilyev, later Ossinovski, took personal responsibility for this SKIAIS2, which, as you have pointed out, has not come to bring us happiness to this day. The National Audit Office also refers and the various parties indicate that our e-Tiger has fallen asleep. What excellent programmes and investments in this area would you point out from the budget? What is the government going to do to restore Estonia's image as an e-state, to shine and shine?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U225	Thank you. I'm gonna start all over again. The real problem of why many good ideas and ideas go wrong is that if a programme like this is ordered, then it is two topics. Firstly, the description you want must be very precise. And it often happens that this description cannot be presented as desired. But another, even greater concern may be that once the description has been made and the programme is already being produced, prepared, already some millions have been invested in it, there will be improvements in the law of the same area in this Chamber. And if it is not agreed at the time of order that it is possible to add different modules to the program, then usually such a thing will collapse. In order to solve this problem, the resources currently allocated to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are, on the one hand, to create a clearer system, to monitor that modules can be added to all programmes. Secondly, it is important that all programmes are compatible. There must be no situation that if I submit anything to Statistics Estonia or submit anything to the tax administration, I will have to submit two or three more data systems. The government has set an objective in order for the entire information system to become such that in one place a citizen of the Republic of Estonia can obtain all data and also enter his or her data in one place. You shouldn't ask the same thing twice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U226	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U227	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, You told Kristina Šmigun-Vähi that next year the budget would be clearer, more transparent and more uniform, but not this year, because the new government came into office. The government is still the same in 2/3, only EKRE came in. When reading the budget, it stands out that EKRE has received 6 million for ballparks, which are not much for a budget of almost 12 billion. But my question is that you are saying that the budget is in a strong position. However, the budget is not structurally balanced. The fiscal council, composed of Estonia's best experts, also recommends that the government restore the structural balance of the budget as early as this year. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U228	Thank you for a very good question. Let's start with $6 million. This certainly is not 6 million for one party. I hope that for 6 million euros four very good football fields or any other sports complex that Estonian people can use will be built in different areas of Estonia. This is certainly not the policy of a single member of the Riigikogu or a single party. And I dare to guarantee that 6 million so-called sports money will certainly not be distributed to one party. Secondly, you and I just have different ideas about the budget. We're both entrepreneurs. We have both made the municipal budget and we know that when making the budget, we must always keep in mind not only the balance this year, but also the cash flow and credit burden. And then you wonder if it's possible to take out profit at one, second or third moment in a year or not. At the moment, we have to admit that perhaps 15 years ago we should have invested very heavily in infrastructure. They weren't done then. Whether we recognise it today or not, I always point out, for example, that building the Tartu road would have cost as much as building 10 kilometres at the time. Did it seem like a utopia to borrow it at that moment? Yeah, we had a tough understanding back then. Now we are going to build these routes through PPP projects, because it has been agreed in the European Union that the budget must be in both structural and nominal balance. While we are trying to emphasise that, at some point, the budget has gone out of balance in a few percent, we forget that most countries in the European Union have a much higher debt burden. But because they have been able to build all the infrastructure, their economies are so strong that the money will be left over and they will be able to repay their loan. Let's look at different countries and take even Greece: the loan burden is 180% compared to GDP, but look at the economic results this year! There's a lot of foreign capital coming in there. Or let's look at Germany: on the one hand, the loan burden is pretty high compared to GDP, but on the other hand, the state budget is still in surplus this year, I think, 50.60 billion euros. At different times, the state has to make different decisions. At one point, there is a need to invest in a certain area in order for the economy to function there. We now see very well that regional development, education and social affairs are important. If necessary in these areas, only maintenance costs will be incurred. But at one point, these investments need to be made. It is not if someone tells me that in 30 years' time I will be able to drive safely from Tallinn to Tartu on 2 + 2 roads, me and other people who now travel there every day will not satisfy. People want to get to different places quickly today from Pärnu, Tartu, Narva and rural areas. It is still important to build fast and comfortable connections There is certainly a great deal to invest in order to be able to do teleworking. This is what the budget for next year is and has been in the budget for previous years. IT development, the last mile connections of the broadband network, these are important points. There is now a debate on how the money for the next period will be directed to what area it is going to be. These decisions must be wise and reasonable. Today we should not always talk about whether the budget is a little out of structural balance or not. 0,75% is allowed, while 1% is allowed in most EU countries. And I repeat: it is the so-called old European countries that are talking at the meetings of both finance ministers and committee presidents that we need to look at how much someone's debt is and, according to this, give us the right to borrow if necessary. Because if the economy is to fall for something, it is clear that the state must intervene and boost the economy by means of investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U229	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U230	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The average pension goes to taxation. The minimum wage that is currently agreed is for tax purposes. The parents of many of these same people need either full or partial care. Some people care for a loved one at home and cannot help the country with their taxes or professional careers because they do not have money to pay for a nursing home. I remember very well that when you were chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, you mattered. We talked about this very often, and we had quite a lot of common ground. I am not going to ask, of course, that several political parties before the elections, including the political parties currently in government, promised this, but why it did not enter into the coalition agreement. I ask whether the RES negotiations or the Committee on Monetary Affairs, or any coalition working group at all, such as the one set up to resolve the issue of the pharmacy...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U231	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U232	Has this been discussed? The bill does not help the very many people who have to pay the cost of a place tax on a nursing home that is beyond their means.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U233	The Committee on Finance has discussed this in preparation for the second reading of the budget, as one such amendment was proposed. There were a lot of topics on the table during the RES debate, and I do not dare to say whether this particular issue is also the case. On two days, all kinds of costs and benefits were discussed. Of course, the standard of living could be such that a person could pay for a nursing home from his pension. Surely you and I agree that we must strive to create such conditions so that a person can stay at home as long as possible. Or, as in Finland, if she no longer lives at home, she lives in a row-house box and is helped once a day. And from there he will one day arrive at the nursing home, where 24/7 will take care of him. I think it is unfair that if mothers and fathers have raised children, these children will be punished and for those who do not have children, the municipality will largely pay for the nursing home. I'm sure it's on the table. However, I have a suggestion to you, as Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, that the entire budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs should be broken down in the Social Affairs Committee. You've run this facility, too. In fact, the money we have can be reallocated. We should see if there is a line where the money is spent, not in vain, that's the wrong word, but too much where we can save up and give the money that we have so much freed up for personal care. At present, we see that this service is attractive in the market. Private operators compete to indicate this. I think it is important to think about whether the state should intervene in the provision of this care service. Maybe enough to keep the price level still. At the moment, it seems that money is often given to build nursing homes where a private operator already exists on the market and there are vacancies. With these sums, perhaps it would have been possible to do more meaningful things.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U234	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U235	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I would still continue on the resource efficiency measure. In your reply, you argued that the measure had not been actively asked for money and that, therefore, there was a fear that it would be lost. However, you admitted that the conditions were perhaps a little too complicated at first. After all, the companies in their letter explain that the precondition for receiving investment support was the carrying out of resource efficiency audits and all this took time. Now they're done. They say that the preliminary work has been done with an estimate of 22 million investment grants. From there, my proposal was to allocate 25 million instead of 39 million taken away to cover the expenditure that has already been done in advance, for which businesses have spent their time and money. Still my question: why did you not take into account this'smaller' wish, the wishes of individual entrepreneurs? And have you answered them on this subject? Has this letter been answered, and if so, what did you answer them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U236	If I know correctly, you're coming from the government system. You understand perfectly well that if money needs to be used in a year and is not used, then it's like it disappears. That is also the case with this measure. For six years, this measure has been up, next year is the seventh year. If, in the seventh year, this money has not been used up for this particular measure, it must be repaid to the European Union. I don't think there's a single person in this room who says that 39 million should be given back. I would like to stress once again that this issue was on the table during the RES negotiations. This money is unlikely to be used, as at present less than 10% of these projects have been completed. Only 48% of these projects have been approved as eligible, with 52% of the money not spent. Next year, this 39 million has been withdrawn, but there is also an agreement that such a measure will be reopened in the new period because it is important. Energy efficiency is important not only in the company, but in the whole of Estonia, both in the housing sector and in the business as a whole. This measure has simply been left there for one year, from the head I say to some 20 million. There aren't 39 million. For those for whom funding has been decided, this money is available in the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U237	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U238	Thank you, good vice chairman! Good chairman of the committee! The budget we have in front of us is still a hell of a lot to read. I very much hope that all members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs will know exactly what is written in here and what is hidden behind these beautiful sentences. My question is this: the salaries of teachers. We know that the minimum wage for teachers will rise by EUR 65. When you start looking for this big, fat budget, it turns out that only half of this amount is here, but half of it is like you've been sneaking around. This story is as follows: in local governments, teachers' salaries are made up of a proportion of students, plus 20%, which is the so-called levelling of performance fees and all other things. And you've scrambled 3% of that 20% in and said you have to raise your salary for that 3%. However, many municipalities are unable to do so because they have only just joined and accession treaties prohibit optimization of the school network. As a self-government person, how do you feel about the fact that the local governments are so obsessed with hats?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U239	Good Kalvi! I'm gonna start from the beginning so I can pick on you a little bit. You have also been a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and I do not believe that while you were a member of the committee, the budget was more readable than it was today. Isn't that right? Of course it is the other way around, because next year is an activity-based budget. It's a little different, although when I look at the lines that are written behind it, that are going to be appreciated, it's kind of a little funny sometimes, to put it politely. But since it is done for the first time, it is clear that not all things were foreseen, it is not possible to see, and the budget is not equally readable for all ministries. If you are talking about the salaries of teachers in general education schools, it is currently foreseen that the minimum wage will rise by 5.2%. We know that many teachers do not work full time and that this number is moving to one side or the other. However, it is estimated that the average salary of teachers will be at least EUR 1540 next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U240	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U241	Thank you. I would like to come back to the budgetary balance rule that was said earlier. I would point out the fact that human life is 'timely', that society is not 'at least' according to the Preamble of the Estonian Constitution and that it is based on measurable sizes. It seems to me that you are approaching this budget as from your own personal perspective. He wants to travel quickly from Tallinn to Tartu soon, not in 30 years. But when it comes to the budget, there should be a simple principle behind all these structural and nominal balances and other calculations: let the budget be made accountable to our future generations as well. They should not be forced to slave to make up for what we are doing now. So I'm asking you now: do you put your hand on your heart when you say that this budget is responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U242	I don't know where I'm supposed to put my hand, but let's talk a little bit about the number of young people in society who don't have a loan burden. You're gonna graduate and you're gonna want an apartment or something. The whole community lives with a small loan. It's a normal phenomenon. What is important is that there is cash flow and the ability to repay the loan. At this point in time, the budget is slightly out of structural balance, but at the same time we see that the country's debt burden is very low. It cannot be said that the state budget is somehow in a ditch. And our goal is to approach the structural balance by 0.5% every year, so in 2022 we will be zero. The country's budgetary strategy makes it very clear that in two years' time the state budget will no longer be out of balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U243	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U244	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You pointed out that the amendments could not be supported because there were no sources of cover. My question is about the choices that you have made about cutting off the budget, I mean what has been stated in the country's budget strategy or earlier budgets, or also in the government's promises. For example, support for the reconstruction of apartment buildings, the rental housing programme, the support for companies' network connections, these are all grants designed primarily to improve the lives of villages and small towns. If you count the top-up of farmers, there will be a total cut of EUR 65 million. Has the reasons for these cuts been mentioned in the Commission? And if so, why have you cut so much?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U245	Thank you for a good question. If we look at the rental housing measure, it is simply not triggered as quickly as it is desired. We can see that there are 3.6 million planned for next year, 9.4 million for 2021, 1.3 million for 2022 and 1.3 million for 2023. If there is a line of cuts somewhere, that is why, as we hear here on every other issue: the budget must be balanced. This is the way in which decisions must be made on what expenditure can be incurred and what expenditure cannot be incurred. And certainly two more points were important in the debate on this budget: the potential funds from the sale of CO2 quotas in the coming years and the possible allocation of EU funds between different areas in the next period. And when you asked about energy efficiency when it comes to renovating apartment buildings, it is certainly one of the themes of the CO2 measure. This will certainly increase in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U246	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U247	Austet President! Good waitress! As we know, before the elections, almost all of the current parliamentary parties signed a scientific agreement to increase research funding to 1% of GDP. Now that we're in government, coalition parties haven't kept this agreement when they set up the budget. Science funding continues to squeak. And here came the help of the Social Democrats, who made two proposals to increase funding for R &amp; D, as well as funding for higher education. Question: why have you not supported these good proposals, and more importantly, why have you not kept your signature on the science agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U248	Thank you for a good question. I believe that when the signature was given, the chairmen of the parties hardly thought that this amount would increase from 0,74% to 1% immediately next year. Some parties who didn't sign, I guess they thought it had to be raised to 2%. But I can get you some facts. For example, R &amp; D funding increased by 8 million in 2017 and 13,9 million in 2018 and 13,3 million this year. If you count this budget, we will see that next year this amount will increase by EUR 8.6 million. We have managed to maintain a level of 0.74% of GDP for science next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U249	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U250	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a question for which reasons the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not support the amendment to provide the Ministry of Social Affairs with additional funding for palliative care support specialists to encourage other hospitals to set up a service offering palliative services. Currently, the palliative care centre is the only one working in PERH, North Estonia Regional Hospital, but it is clear that centres offering such services are actually needed throughout Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U251	Thank you. Can you tell me what number it was? Number 30, right? The Commission's response is that the Health Insurance Fund has proposed to include inpatient hospital care as of 2020. Inpatients who have severe, poorly controlled symptoms: pain, severe nausea and vomiting, severe shortness of breath, extensive and deep tumour ulcers, terminal restlessness or total pain, both physical, psychological, social and spiritual. This is also needed by patients with terminal symptoms, i.e. those who have reached the end of their life, who could be treated in a health care facility to be able to cope at home for a shorter or longer period of time. A fixed treatment decision and assessment of the patient are a prerequisite for referral to hospital care. The reserve of the Government of the Republic has unfortunately been set aside for other expenses; it was not possible to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U252	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U253	Thanks! Good Aivar! I would simply like to say that this budget is much harder to read than it was in previous years. Maybe I just can't, but I'm offering you a chance or a chance like this. Please, Aivar, look at this budget and tell me how much money will be given to volunteer rescuers next year! If you say it out loud, it's fine, but if you don't, I'll ask you another question, and then at least answer the other one. Why didn't you support the development of the so-called settlement program? This would be a direct improvement in the sustainability of rural life. Perhaps further measures should have been considered there. Could have been allocated $2 million to offer many rural inhabitants all kinds of simpler and better solutions. So answer this, too: why was Amendment 26 not supported by 2 million to strengthen the settlement programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U254	Thank you. If we look at this budget, we will see that next year, 1.6 million will be allocated to the settlement programme. In addition, investments in the construction of the water and sewerage network are planned for residents of sparsely populated areas during the new period of structural resources. So from 2022, these funds should exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U255	Javier in clothing, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U256	Thank you, very honored Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. A good leader of the Commission! This is then the first Estonian budget to regain independence, where the average old-age pension goes under income tax. When the Social Affairs Committee discussed this with the Minister for Social Affairs, it turned out that, compared to 2016, when a uniform income tax system was in place for all, the income tax system has become more harmful to pensioners by EUR 110 million: a total of EUR 110 million has been taken out of pensioners' pockets. Did the Minister of Finance, when you spoke to him on this subject in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, explain why the current government wants to be the first to reach so far into the pocket of pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U257	Thank you, Javier! You were out of the hall for a while, but I already answered that question once. But the sad point is that in this area, where you have also been a minister, that is, in the social field, the SKIAIS2 has unfortunately failed, to put it politely. We had hoped that the SKIAIS2 would be operational already in 2015-2016, but unfortunately, it still does not work. I want to tell you why now. During the budget negotiations, the coalition had a firm position that the average pension should be exempt from income tax. However, unfortunately, the IT solution does not allow it until 2021. In fact, you can ask the Minister for Social Affairs because it was discussed for several weeks and up to the last breath, they fought for the choice to be an income tax-free pension, not a seven-euro increase. This decision was taken because, according to the Minister, it would not be possible to launch the IT solution until the SKAIS2 reached this development in 2021. It is not possible to add an additional module to the SKAIS1. That is the answer of the Minister for Social Affairs to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U258	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U259	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have dealt with this state budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and, as we know, the state budget is a very thick document. Can you tell us why only opposition ambassadors have proposed amendments on this? Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has said that the Riigikogu actually gives up state money, i.e. more and more power when deciding on the state budget. Is it true that the Riigikogu's role remains solely on the opposition's shoulders? Or what are the considerations of the coalition ambassadors on this budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U260	Thank you, Echo! Thank you for this question. The answer is simple. Since the budget reached the Riigikogu, coalition politicians have been looking for places where costs can be saved or revenue increased. And, as you know, between second and third readings, both groups and committees have the opportunity to propose changes to the state budget. I hope that there will also be suggestions for improvement from coalition politicians during this period.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U261	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U262	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you a little bit about education. Two subjects. Certainly before the elections, at least three political parties, including the party to which you belong, had the priority of switching to a single Estonian-language education. But in the budget, we do not see much of the specific resources for this, nor do we know how it will be achieved. Maybe you can explain a little more. Is that money in the budget? At least I didn't. Another major priority is to increase the prestige of the teaching profession, which involves raising the average salary of this profession. Prior to the elections, other parties promised teachers who would double the average salary in Estonia, who would pay an average salary of 2000 euros. But what we see today: teachers' pay is not, at least according to the state budget, the so-called priority of today's government. Hence the question: why is the pay of teachers not a priority? Is it gonna be in the next few years? And I very much hope that you will support the Reform Party's proposal to increase the teachers' payroll.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U263	Thank you. When several questions come, the first question will be forgotten before the next one comes. But on the last point: the amount for teachers' pay has increased in the budget, and a few moments ago when you were away from the hall, I just read these numbers. But remind me what the first question was! Language training? Where do you see it in the state budget? We see that the construction of state secondary schools continues, and so far all state secondary schools are in Estonian. So education in Estonian is more and more a priority every year. I believe that at the end of this election period, there are state secondary schools in Estonian in each region, where everyone can study in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U264	Kaja Kallas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U265	Thank you. They say don't tell me your priorities, show me your budget. Maybe you can talk about anything, but the priorities are really about where the money goes, where you put the money. During the last week, we have read in the paper that the mathematics results of Estonian students are very poor. But in fact, the results of students depend primarily on teachers, how teachers can pass on their knowledge to students. And it is known that there is a great shortage of mathematics teachers, like many other teachers. With regard to this budget, our proposal is to increase the salaries of teachers. I ask: why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs decide not to support this proposal? For what reasons was it decided, and where does the money go instead?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U266	Thank you. If we look at the state budget, we will see that the minimum wage for teachers in general education schools will increase from EUR 1250 to EUR 1315 in next year's budget. The teachers' estimated average salary will be at least EUR 1540 next year. With regard to the same issue, the target is that the share of labour costs in public education expenditure will be 60% in 2020. So we try every year to increase teachers' salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U267	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U268	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. In one of your responses, you spoke about the SKIAIS2 and the involvement of the pension increase in its development problems. This story sounded like a science fiction scenario in the second half of the last century: it has been one very popular scenario that machines take power. But that's it. Here's the question. 33 proposals were made to amend the national budget for 2020. There is no shortage of reasons why the Commission did not support them. But if you leave the formal role of the chairman of the committee for a moment, perhaps you will tell us which of these proposals will be left to you as a human being, an experienced politician and, as you said, an economic person and an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U269	Thank you, Urve, on the one hand, for a difficult question. There's a lot of stuff going on. There is never enough money in any area. At the same time, there are certainly places where money can be saved, where something can be changed. But it is always a matter of priorities, which, or on whose behalf, a decision is made. There are certainly proposals here that scratch my heart, and there are also problems that the opposition has not come up with suggestions for improvement to resolve. However, as a coalition policy, I am trying to find the means to solve one, another or third problem, whether in the social field, education or agriculture, until my last breath. All are important areas for the Estonian economy and the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U270	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U271	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! The Reform Party Group, together with the Socialist MEPs, has proposed an additional EUR 112000 for the children's helpline. This proposal has not been supported. However, it is known that after the adoption of the Child Protection Act, it became clear that the number of children in need of help in Estonia is three times as much as it was thought so far. About the same time, the activities of the children's helpline were reorganized. Studies have shown that most children of primary school age are aware of this number and are ready to use it. At the same time, studies have shown that adults are aware of this telephone number and the possibility of receiving advice in a declining trend. Why has EUR 112000 not been found to support the activities of the children's helpline?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U272	Thank you for an important and very good question. Child welfare telephone services are included in the 2020 budget. The child welfare telephone service consists of 116111 children's helpline as a complex service and is available continuously to the target group, i.e. 24/7. And this is the case this year and next year, according to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U273	Well, there's no more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. Now we're going to the negotiations. There are many requests. First Maris Lauri, please! Everyone can speak for 5 + 3 minutes if an additional three minutes are needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U274	The speaker takes three extra minutes, so that's a total of eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U275	I'll take three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U276	Ladies and gentlemen, We heard how the coalition saw the debate on the state budget in the Commission after its first reading. I'll bring in the way the opposition saw it. As you may have understood from my questions, there was, in fact, no discussion in the Commission. We tabled our amendments, presented the government's objections, and from time to time the chairman of the committee said that well, it is a nice proposal, but all the proposals were voted down without any discussion. The reasons for rejecting the amendments were indeed different. There were also reasons which were immediately rejected by the proposers, and some of the reasons for rejection did not come to this paper. For example, the same question concerning the teaching of Estonian to Russian children in Estonian schools. It was said that there are, and such and such measures are in place. But the point is that these measures were intended for Russian schools; they were not intended for Russian children studying in Estonian schools. Unfortunately, this recital, which was rejected, is not in the explanatory memorandum, nor did the chairman of the good committee mention it. The chairman of the committee also failed to mention the fact that a vote had been taken in the committee to interrupt the reading. This should actually have been said in the interests of regularity, because there was a particular reason for this. It is relatively difficult for the Commission to hold a discussion on matters when it is only one side of the table and the other side does not speak; it is simply voting, perhaps, as Parliament says in its speech, rolling over. If it really was a very good proposal, you could have picked up and discussed the sources of cover if they seemed inappropriate. But it didn't happen either. That, of course, was the reason for the cut-off proposal. One more thing was certainly that it was the deadline for tabling amendments, but the committee meeting was just the next day. Clearly, the coalition ambassadors did not want to examine the amendments in substance, all of which was quite formal. But I will talk a little bit about the amendments and the problems that have occurred. The Reform Party had six amendments. One was about achieving a balance, because, as we know, the Fiscal Council said it could be dealt with more quickly, and the government itself has promised to do so more quickly. It was rejected. We proposed a pension exemption, and this was also rejected. As we have heard here today, all kinds of amendments have been tabled. When we talked about channeling money into IT, it was also rejected in order not to solve the problem, obviously. There was a proposal for R &amp; D to finally get closer to this 1%. Yes, our amendment was not so rich that it would have achieved the objective that the political party leaders agreed on a year ago, but still, it was at least a step forward in this direction. While it was said here today that there is money somewhere and that it is already being dealt with, the analysis carried out for the Scientific and Development Council has shown that this is not the right solution. Our solution offers involvement in a much more diverse way, including the involvement of different forces. The teacher's salary was denied. I stress that the government is working on raising the minimum wage, we wanted to raise the average wage so that the target of 120% of the average wage is not withdrawn. I will certainly bring out the proposal on studying Estonian, which I mentioned earlier. The parties sitting on my right are always talking about how they stand for learning in Estonian and want Estonian to be well learned, but the reality is very simple and sad. Estonian schools are seriously struggling with Russian children coming to these schools to study in Estonian, but their knowledge of Estonian is not enough. The coalition can't find the money to solve this. These are people who are willing to learn the Estonian language, who are interested in it, who understand the need for it, but we cannot find money for it. We leave Estonian schools in trouble. This problem has been particularly aggravated in the last three or four years. All Estonian-language primary schools in Ida-Virumaa are in completely insane trouble with this. This problem is also in trouble in Valga; this problem is even, incredible, in Saaremaa vocational education. But no, the coalition, which, during the elections and even now, punches in the chest, how they stand for learning in Estonian, for learning the Estonian language, voted down this amendment. This is not an expensive proposal, it would mean an estimated cost of 1 million, which could happen, could not be needed by the end of the year. So let me get this straight. We did not really have a debate on the budget. There has already been a repeated reference here today to the fact that we are not discussing and Parliament has given up its role. I am not talking about the explanatory memorandum, I am talking about the budget itself, where there are so few lines that the amendments are complicated, if not to say that it is not possible from time to time. Instead of holding a substantive discussion, the amendments were rolled over, and as a result the draft is still in exactly the same position as it was when the government sent it to us. He's meaningless, aimless, word-writing. There's no change. That is why the Reform Party Group proposes that the second reading be interrupted so that we can essentially deal with this budget and make it as much better as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U277	Thank you. We will accept this request and process it in accordance with the prescribed procedure after the vote or after the discussion. After the vote, that's right! Aivar Sõerd is next. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U278	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The representatives of the Government Union spoke in praising the budget for next year that the tax burden would not increase. However, the tax burden will not fall, even though this year the increase in the previous government's excise duty on alcohol was reversed and should result in a reduction in the burden of consumption taxes. In the budget explanatory memorandum, however, we will read that the tax burden will increase by 0.1% next year. However, let us recall that the tax burden will increase by 0.7 percentage points next year compared to 2017. We also read in the budget explanatory memorandum that next year, wage growth will increase the tax burden on labour. But the point is, above all, that wage growth leads people to a lower tax-free income area due to the special nature of the new tax system, which in turn leads to an increase in the burden on labour taxes. Let's keep going. The gas excise duty will increase next year. The cost of natural gas is the input of companies, the increase in excise duties on natural gas affects private consumers, but also those who do not use natural gas directly but are connected to the district heating network. The major tax change that I want to talk about and which will be implemented with next year's budget is the one that hits pensioners. So far, it has always been ensured that the average pension is not taxed on income tax. Now it is going to be that more than half of the pensioners will have to start paying income tax in the coming year. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, there are pensioners who will have to pay income tax on this extraordinary part of the pension increase next year, 184000.205000 are pensioners whose pension and pay will exceed EUR 500 in the following year, and that part will have to pay income tax on that part exceeding EUR 500. In the past, it has always been the case that the low incomes of pensioners have been saved from taxation by using the additional tax-free income applied to retirement. That is why the Reform Party Group has proposed an amendment on the state budget to exempt pensions from the income tax liability for the amount of the average old-age pension. But now a little bit of the budget in general, too. In order to accommodate the budget in the balance framework provided by law, investments were moved forward. Major infrastructure and other investments were postponed to the future on the grounds that lengthy public procurements and litigations prevent construction from starting, and accrual-based accounting also provided space for the timing of transactions exactly as needed. However, the freed-up money, the freed-up investment space, did not go to replace them with those long-awaited investments. For example, the Tartu Riga roundabout was excluded from the budget, but the financial allocation for the allocation of 125 million euros for the construction of the new oil plant of Eesti Energia remained in the budget. The detailed plan is ready, there is a preliminary project, there are no barriers to construction, the chairman of the Finance Committee told us today. However, shifting investment in roads and infrastructure into the future will not solve anything, but will simply delay solving the problems. There will be even less room for investment in the budgets of the coming years than there is now. Now a little bit of R &amp; D and funding, and this resource efficiency measure, which was discussed in the round of questions. In the spring budget strategy for the country, EUR 39 million of the performance reserve was written on the R &amp; D expenditure line. It is the money that is like a unshot bear that is still running around in the forest, and the Commission has not yet given its permission to use it. It turned out in the summer that the money from the performance reserve could not be diverted to that line. Since the money was not used, it went to build a school of fine arts. It was a clever maneuver, as the Minister of Finance said. You didn't have to make cuts, you didn't have to make a budget review. A small manoeuvring with the euro grants provided additional space and the money previously planned for the school of fine arts was allocated to cover other expenses. But here, of course, there was a problem: the 39 million that were withdrawn from R &amp; D would have made R &amp; D a percentage lower than 0.71% of GDP. In order not to do so, money was taken from this resource efficiency measure, which was asked a lot about here. This, of course, did not concern the government that the withdrawal of EUR 39 million from the resource efficiency measure would mean that companies would not achieve resource savings of EUR 124 million and would fail to invest EUR 111 million to improve resource efficiency. So next year's budget will simply take the fee from the future. Today's prosperity is fundamental, let the solution of the problems remain in the future. Manoeuvring with euro grants shows how much dependence on euro money is. This dependency should start to decrease as the structural resources will decrease in the next financial period of euro money. But our government has gone down the road of increasing dependence on euro money next year's budget. To sum up, the budget is a budget for over-residence due to a deficit at a good time, as well as for delaying investment and increasing dependence on euro payments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U279	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U280	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable President!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U281	Can we take five minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U282	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U283	Put three more, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U284	I will start with one amendment that also has my signature and which, in my opinion, represents very well the budgetary policy of this government or the understanding of how we will manage in the future. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Taavi Aas, speaking about the circle of Tartu Riga, said that we were forced to push this construction to 2024. Perhaps the object, which was to be built next year, was all contracts relating to the obligations of one and the other half, signed with the city of Tartu, was postponed to 2024. This fact, as I know, means today that it was rejected from the final period of the budgetary strategy, which, in my opinion, very vividly indicates that the various costs and especially investments are being postponed because there is no money and the money is simply being spent. It's extremely sad in that sense. If we add to that the fact that, if we have asked the ministries several times whether the exit strategies have been adopted, whether they have been discussed and whether they have had any particular numbers in the back, we will not actually get that answer. But, to my surprise, today's political power promised, all three parties promised it on one issue concerning transitional subsidies for agriculture, from one point of view, that these subsidies would come in full. But, oh, unfortunately, even worse here, when they finally found 5 million, the reason why that 15 million wasn't there was discovered. The last statement I heard from the Minister for Rural Affairs was when Tarmo Tamm said that the money was there. But it turned out it wasn't, although he still thought it was there in the summer. In my opinion, it only shows one thing, that it is not actually a priority. There's no point in perplexing people. If it is not to be allocated, it should be said, but not to indicate that it fell between two tables. Especially in the light of the fact that the minister himself went around Estonia all summer and said that the money was there. But I'm going to a more topical subject. One part of this so-called government crisis and the Mart Järvik crisis is related to food safety. This, in my opinion, is in some respects the saddest and most important issue. The Minister, on the one hand, has not been able to convince the public and to state that things are in order in this regard, but rather has intervened politically. When I looked at what proposals have been taken into account in the Commission, I noticed that the proposal made by the Ministry only takes into account the fact that the PRIA will receive almost 0.5 million more, which will be an increase in wages, although I had the impression yesterday that the Minister was not at all satisfied with the work of the PRIA. Maybe words and actions don't have to go together. But if we look at the listerial scandal in a broader sense, the real issue is that, in order to ensure that we as consumers, or people, have food safety, there is certainly more need for monitoring and these samples, and all this needs to be done more precisely in order to prevent risks and maintain our health. I do not think it has been understood that the seriousness of this concern is that, in relation to the listeria cases, we have specific deaths linked to one of the dangerous strains. Today we know that another strain is moving around, the source of which has not been identified. This means that we should compare, analyze and find these sources even more intensively, but no additional entries have been separated in this key. It is a great pity that this 1.7-million-million-dollar proposal, which would have included labour, laboratory and so-called sampling, has not been included in the budget. There are certainly places where we could criticise and say that this budget is a living budget, much, and certainly budget-specifics know that much more precisely. But I think the saddest thing is that there has been such a thing in Estonian society that very clear promises are thrown out of the window on the first day, and that is the problem. In my opinion, however, an important example is also the issue of teachers' salaries. If we have so far talked about the average salary and reaching 120% of the average wage, today's trick is that we are raising the minimum wage, which in fact means that there will be no more resources in this way and that teachers' pay will actually fall compared to the possible average income of the whole society. So these are the places where the government, the Commission or the coalition could also have taken into account opposition proposals and sensible proposals. We have seen that there are many sensible proposals here. All of this shows that this government does not think about the future and does not think about the future comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U285	Thank you. Liina Kersna, next call, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U286	I'm asking for more time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U287	I'm sure there'll be extra time. Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U288	Good President of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking about the state budget for the coming year, I think it is not only what is right or wrong in this state budget, but also what is not in this state budget. We know from research that nearly 40% of schoolchildren aged 11, 13 and 15 say they don't like school very much. It's like one in ten says he doesn't like to go to school at all. One in three schoolchildren has experienced depression over the past year. The older the children get, the worse they feel. The mental health of 15-year-old schoolchildren has become significantly worse. Of the 15-year-olds, even one in five has considered suicide in their lifetime. In Estonia, young people start using alcohol and other drugs too early. Nearly a third of Estonian students aged 15 to 16 have used alcohol and smoked before the age of 12. At the age of 14, 17% of boys and 14% of girls were drunk for the first time. At least once, 38% of school students aged 15 to 16 have used a drug in their lifetime. According to the World Health Organisation, most deaths among young people, such as suicides and drug overdoses, have started with mental health problems. Knowing all this, we also know that only one third of Estonian schools have a school psychologist. Only 60 school psychologists have an invitation, an invitation from a school psychologist. Since it is very difficult to get psychologists into schools, there are cases of psychology students working in schools who do not yet have specific skills and knowledge to support young people in difficulty. And now, what is not in the largest budget of all time before us, the 11.7 billion budget? In order for a school psychologist with a master's degree to acquire, in addition to the theory, the necessary methodological and practical skills to perform his work systematically, rationally and consciously, it is necessary that he complete the professional year. Ten school psychologists will need EUR 225000 for their professional years. Although we know that there is a drought of school psychologists in schools, this money has not been found in the budget for next year. In the state budget for the coming year, no EUR 390000 is needed for the professional year of clinical psychologists. The Labour Force Study OSKA says that 14 new clinical psychologists are needed each year for the labour market. The Ministry of Social Affairs also admits that yes, we have too few clinical psychology. There is no national training system in Estonia how to obtain a clinical psychologist's qualification. Getting and studying for this depends on the employer of the psychologist and his own personal initiative, with no public support. In the budget for the coming year, there will also be no EUR 127000 for the implementation of the VEPA behavioural skills game in schools. VEPA is currently the only methodology that reduces risk behaviour and hyperactivity of children, based on research carried out in both the world and Estonia, and increases the willingness, friendliness and caringness of children. Applying methodology prevents drug use and later suicidal behaviour, and it also improves teacher class management and guidance skills. In the last five years, EUR 1 million of European Union money has been invested in the implementation of this research-based prevention programme. If the country does not find any additional funding for the implementation of this programme next year, there is a risk that these knowledge and skills will simply fade away and that students and teachers will be in difficulty at school. In the budget for the coming year, there will also be no EUR 112000 for the development of a children's helpline, to which children and their spotters are increasingly in need from year to year. Last year, 6500 visits were made to the children's helpline, and the statistics for the first half of this year show that almost 5,000 cases have already been received. The number of visitors is increasing, so the number of children receiving assistance is increasing. That could be the purpose of all of us. The Estonian state is rich enough to allow free public transport for everyone, which has brought the new concept of bus groups into the lexika. We are rich enough to celebrate the 100th anniversary of our dignified constitution with EUR 650000. We're rich enough to split up 4 million euros of roofing money among the MPs. But we do not have EUR 850000 to provide clinical psychologists and school psychologists with the necessary training to ensure a science-based prevention programme to protect children's mental health and develop a child helpline, which makes children who are increasingly in need of help get real support. It is not a question of lack of money; it is a question of priorities. As the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said: every budget is the face of a government. Together with my colleagues Riina Sikkut, Helmen Küti and Signe Riisalo, I have brought before you four amendments which would create the assumption that children in need will receive help in the right time and as efficiently as possible. I ask for your support in voting on these amendments so that no life will be left unlived, so that no young life will be left unlived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U289	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please! Next call. [[A. Akkermann asks for more time.]] Still got three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U290	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The Reform Party has put forward a number of proposals for the 2020 budget. I'll stop at the first of them. The proposal is to reduce public expenditure by EUR 204.4 million. It is totally unacceptable that the Jüri Ratas government has managed to create a billion structural minuses in good times, from 2017 to 2019. The government has promised to strike a structural balance with the budget by 2020, but every year their words have proved wrong. The Economic Commission went out last week in Pärnu. We visited three large companies and met their leaders, and we heard from everyone that orders were decreasing, the economy was getting colder. The only houses where the party's still going, like there's no tomorrow, are Stenbock's house and Toompea's castle. Sometimes we all get the feeling that we've already seen it, the so-called déjà-vu. From the surface of life experience, we can say that if we do this, the consequences are similar. I was elected to the Riigikogu for the first time in 2011 from Pärnu. My reputation in Pärnu at that time was based on the fact that I had to deal with the consequences of a broad budget policy before the elections of the central party government, together with my colleague Toomas Kivimägi. The debt burden was then 92% of the budget and the deficit was 10%. In my opinion, the budgetary policy of the current government is exactly like the fiscal policy of the then central party Pärnu City Government: a party, as if there were no tomorrow. The elections took place in 2009 as in 2019. In 2008, companies and most municipalities cut budgets, the Pärnu City Government paid bonuses and raised salaries and hid debt overruns in the shadow of PPP projects, namely the construction of the Pärnu Sports Hall. Oh, surprise, this sports hall was opened at the end of the election campaign. In fact, a few months later, the roof of a hall fell in, and only a generous destiny held us because it happened while the house was empty. This morning, Marju Lauristin said at the conference 'Democracy and Power' that democracy needs a smart nation. There's nothing more practical than a good theory. The Estonian people are wise. The Centre Party lost the elections in Pärnu in 2009 and in 2019 in Estonia. In November 2009, in Pärnu, the new city government received completely empty current accounts and outstanding invoices of 60 million kroons. The whole city's people suffered from a middle party's short-sighted populist fiscal policy. In the face of the economic crisis and high unemployment, we had to pool around 10% of posts and reduce wages by 5 to 12%. Street light bulbs were turned out more than one, no snow was hauled off the roads and streets. All this will happen in the Republic of Estonia, too, when fiscal policy is short-sighted, populist and loose. The pill comes with long beauty every time, and certainly this time. Today we once again dealt with the law on maritime safety, so I will bring some parallels from the maritime domain where I have worked in the past. My longtime opponent on Kihnu Island, Captain Johannes Leas, used to say that leadership is foresight, multiple moves foresight and far vision. Unfortunately, a person makes plans, and life makes adjustments. In order to avoid the need for excessive and unpleasant corrections, the limits and rules of budgetary policy have been developed. Admiral Johan Pitka said that concern and care, these wards of caution, have been kept away from him by sea accidents on ships that he led. Maritime safety is a priority, there are many safety regulations, but they have all been paid for at the cost of human lives. After each accident at sea, the safety requirements will be re-examined so that changes to any safety rules can prevent a similar accident in the future. In the European Union and in the Republic of Estonia, the directives, the Stability and Growth Pact and many other legislation have set boundaries for fiscal policy that guide fiscal balance in the short and long term. These regulations have a reason and a purpose. They have been developed on the basis of concern and care and caution in order to keep away deep economic and debt crises that can shake societies and individuals apart from joints. I ask you, good members of the Riigikogu, to support the Reform Party's proposal to reduce public expenditure and investment in the 2020 budget by 204.4 million euros in order to reduce the structural deficit of the budget just now that the times are still good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U291	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please! Eight minutes, I presume. Or was I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let's see, there's a lot of ideas here. My colleague told me about the roof that fell in. I had the idea that I was the Minister of Finance at the same time, and I squeezed him and Thomas. Thomas quickly became my friend, Annely became a friend after. We all did one thing, and what to deny was to squeeze the municipalities. This idea, which we had in common, was that a better sparrow was in his hand than a roof fell in. What's being done here is a roof-falling policy. That is why I, too, wanted to talk about this most important amendment, and not the one that has become the first by accident. This is that the structural balance of the budget must be restored. This is also permitted several times in the country's budgetary strategy for the following year. The whole time the government has come together and said that ups, we thought it was going to be minus, but it came three times bigger, and we're going to postpone that restoration again. This isn't some kind of little overspending, this is what we call a structural minus. It's a matter of survival, it's self-tearing. It's already got fruit. As Annely said, in three years the Wheel has been able to rip off a billion minus. That's a lot of money. But since it's a structural amount, it's already living in next year's budget. We're already licking the wounds that Sven Sester and Jüri Ratas gave us over the last few years with their greedy teeth. Sven Sester just came and turned the record backwards: if he had come here before as chairman of the committee after me, he started talking exactly the opposite thing to me when he became Minister of Finance. He said here as chairman of a large planning committee: 'Well, will we be satisfied with economic growth? It doesn't! " He foretold funds and limits and economic growth, how much the economy must grow. Of course, we got faster inflation, but not faster growth, and we got a structural downside that keeps tearing. It means living beyond our means. As a result, everything we are talking about here, the costs that are in this budget, you can say, are actually uncoverable. It's unsustainable. What is not here is embarrassing to talk about, because we do not really have the power to exist. These are not small amounts, given that the budget room for manoeuvre is some percentage. Some here say that 80% of the budget is related to something. This is very relative, because most of the rest, apart from the laws, relate to contracts, are linked to expectations and promises. All in all, we have to put up with elections where money is promised more than 200%, not 100% of the budget. It is the Board that has once talked with petrol about turning off the fire, once again, while the aces here were talking about economic recovery. This fire has reached the point that real wages are falling in the public sector. Most of the wage fund will have zero growth and not only this year, but also in the coming years. There are certain areas for which priority has been spoken with pride. This priority means that wage growth is covered at inflation level. After all, 2.5% is actually the level of inflation. In short, the real wage does not fall, but the relative salary falls, for example, for teachers, which was supposed to be a big and important thing. Good things... Yeah, I'm really asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U293	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U294	Ah, I thought eight would be more! Anyway, in R &amp; D, I think that's the only bright addition that's ever come up here. In the spring, all ministers began to talk about how the cuts are waiting for us, in August they began to say that the opposition is very disappointed that you will see it again, you will be disappointed! Look what you've been saying! Damn, you criticized yourself! But the problem is that this budget has been driven into some kind of nominal balance, which, in times of economic growth, is absolutely not satisfactory by artificial means. We will see that, after the wage freeze, which is unsustainable, the delay in investment that has already begun, is recorded later, even though these investments have begun, which, after all, raises problems for the future. Of course, I am very much concerned about what are the sources of cover. It is never possible to make final decisions on budgetary policy on the basis of a one-year budget. While CO2 money, which is a gift that has fallen on its lap, the winning of the lottery, has put this budget in a seemingly better balance, the same 204 million that should be cut by this proposal is still unexploited. The dividends are taken from where they really shouldn't be taken. Electricity grids have been taken, oil shale energy has been taken, which is not a sustainable source. Last year was even taken from the postal service. But the worst thing awaits us. Euro money is used to patch budget holes. It's exactly reverse motion, opposite of what's needed. Euro money is going to be 60% net of what we have so far, and it is actually a budget cut. The government is acting exactly the opposite, officials are desperately writing the existing costs into the euro money account, although they had to do the opposite. Moreover, the RES has written this money simply as a balancing element, even the costs have not been shown. It's a pretty tough state theft that's going on. The example of Pärnu already mentioned PPPs. To be honest, finances are dealt with at this level, that the ignorant advisor finds someone who talks about PPP projects, and then the minister says he found a solution. All these things are more expensive, all bills are postponed, and the quality of all decisions is greatly deteriorating, but the profit will be the same as P, who is not Public. So you're leaving power with stolen cashiers and debts, but it's a structural minus, it's unfortunately not so tangible as to make voters understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U295	Thank you. Urve Tiidus is next. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U296	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group has tabled a number of amendments to the budget for next year; at the moment, I would like to highlight one of them. The content of this proposal is an increase in teachers' pay, which in turn requires an increase of 10 million euros in the expenditure planned for general education. This EUR 10 million allows teachers to raise their average wage by more than 5%. The aim in Estonia is to ensure that the average wage of teachers is at least 120% of the average wage of the country. The amendment proposed by the Reform Party will significantly accelerate progress towards this. For the following year, the average wage in Estonia is estimated at 1484 euros. Our group's proposal in the Committee on Monetary Affairs was not supported by coalition politicians. 'Not to mention' is the laconical pair of words used to evaluate the opposition's proposal. The use of slang in this hall is not a good tone, but, unfortunately, drawing water on any additional proposal intended to promote education is always short-sighted. Maybe the shields were badly chosen. As we know, when making an amendment, the author of the amendment must indicate where the money will be taken away from the budget. The sources indicated by the political group are reasonable and do not really rival with the funding of any coalition proposal. Namely, the sources of our budget change are EUR 4 million, which is planned in the draft for regional investments distributed by the Riigikogu from the special-purpose reserve of the Government of the Republic, which is the so-called 'roof money', plus 6 million of the reserve of the Government of the Republic. Yeah, the roof money's still shared, but unfortunately, the efficiency of its use hasn't been much measured. This practice could be changed. Why is it still short-sighted not to take into account the proposal to increase teachers' pay further? First of all, because in addition to comparing the level of students, which is performed excellently every three years by PISA tests, according to which Estonia is at the top of the world's rankings, such results are not born at a level without teachers, there is also a comparison of the remuneration of teachers in the world. According to the OECD, the table here is quite the opposite. Yes, we have moved steadily upwards, we are in a better position than the Baltic States and several Eastern European countries, but moving forward at this rate in a growing competitive situation is no longer sufficient. I'll make a comparison, at first sight, unconnected. South Korean students are also at the top in terms of PISA results. At the same time, there is a huge competition in South Korea for teaching places in the teaching profession in universities, with 20 and more people in some specialties. Yeah, you're saying there's a much bigger population there, we'll never get that kind of situation. But this is a desirable occupation there, and one of the reasons for it is that wages are the second highest among the best in the world in comparison to those of teachers, after Luxembourg, if I remember correctly the benchmark of salaries of teachers in OECD countries. Another contrast, which at first glance does not form part of the speech on the amendment: as we know, the share of R &amp; D expenditure in South Korea is 4.3% of GDP, of course it has been achieved through public-private cooperation. If someone says that this is a far too far and incomparable example, I can say that our northern neighbours are moving quite in the same direction as this distant Asian country. In Estonia, every decision in the field of education must take into account the evolving objective situation, which is increasingly intense global competition for each current and future student. The teacher is the key person in preparing for this in the most weighty sense. Members of Parliament, both in the coalition and in the opposition, are well aware that there is still not enough young people to be a teacher given the needs of the future. This fact was last reflected in the OSKA report last autumn. However, Estonia is very lucky that the teaching staff is well trained, professionally faithful and results-oriented. It has to be highly appreciated. But from a perspective, all families, children, educational institutions, teachers and the state need to be confident that the political decisions and choices that affect the lives of the people and the state for the next hundred years, but that is what the long-term impact of children's teaching and education will be, will be wise and weighed down. That is why it is very short-sighted to reject the proposal for an increase in teachers' pay from the additional funding. But we'll learn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U297	Thank you. Andres Sutt, next call, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U298	If you need more time, I'll ask, not yet. Good listeners! We are talking about 11.8 or 11.7 here, depending on whether we are talking about revenue or expenses, and then there are nine zeros, we are talking about billions of large sums, which is very reasonable. In the case of large numbers, it is always good to ask what is behind these numbers, which is the great vision of this budget. It doesn't look too good. The previous speakers have worked out this budget from a number of angles. At the end of the last century, President Meri called for the search for Estonian Nokia. At the time, it made a lot of noise, different opinions, different feelings. But I think that this call is appropriate now, and it is particularly appropriate in terms of thinking and purpose: where we want to develop as a nation where we want to develop as a society to which we are a country. Nokia's story is very instructive because Nokia was a company that was an unshakable market leader, but lost its position very quickly because it did not notice the turning point of the trend when the pocket phone became a smartphone and the world was instantly in the human pocket. We do not have to start looking for Estonian Apple or Apple instead of Nokia, if you want to, but we need to create an ecosystem where science and entrepreneurship can get together more and better than today. It is not a matter of establishing one of the EAS agencies; it is a question of a big picture. Only then will we be able to move towards greater innovation and higher-paid, self-realisation and job opportunities. In the World Bank report 'Doing Business', Lithuania is already ahead of us and Latvia is right behind us. We have no reason or time to wait to improve our competitive position and not miss others. Our online success story needs a new drive for development, better organisation of research and development to build a bridge between entrepreneurship and science through applied research, and to move to a major innovation league. To do so, we do not need to look too far or invent a bicycle. Finland has solved this very well. The Finnish Applied Research Centre is open in all ways for cooperation and sharing experiences, so we will take this opportunity. That is why we also proposed to increase the R &amp; D funding by EUR 10.6 million on the budget in order to move towards this objective, which was agreed in Kadriorg last December. The content of the amendment is the creation of a centre for applied research, i.e. the creation of the same ecosystem centre around which a functioning system of integration of innovation, research and entrepreneurship could be built, as was clearly done by the VTT, or the Finnish Applied Research Centre. I'll just bring some indicators that we can use to follow suit and purpose. I don't think we can get to them right away, but as an ambition, I think they're very good. Finland VTT has 935 Finnish business clients, 355 international business clients and 220 public organisations and institutions with which they cooperate. Their operating income last year was 241 million and there are around 2 000 employees. Yeah, we won't make it in one day, but we have to understand that when we talk about orders of magnitude, we talk about ambition, these aren't the few millions we get to the next level. We saw that this project... I'm still gonna ask you for three minutes, which I'm not gonna take advantage of.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U299	Thank you. Mr Läänemets, next call.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U300	Ladies and gentlemen, Everything in the state budget is always a matter of political choices and, of course, there is no money left for everything. But where to take it and where to leave it, those who make the choices are always free. The government keeps saying that there's more money and the state budget is good stories and wages are going up, and all the good things are going to happen. Therefore, I do not understand why the choice of this budget is to cut investment in small towns and rural areas in Estonia for 65 million euros. This state budget is a complete handbrake for Estonia's regional development. This budget does not help to create a fairer Estonia, but prefers only those who are already doing well or who are in a better position. The death axe is hardest hitting people's living opportunities. The subsidies for the reconstruction of apartment buildings and the construction of rental dwellings will decrease by 27 million euros next year. The same grant for the renovation and repair of KredEx apartment buildings, which was filled in in one minute this year, will lose EUR 11.9 million. It is estimated that this liver is for about a thousand Estonian families. The rental housing programme, created for rural areas, where young families need decent housing and businesses need working hands, will lose EUR 15.1 million. In the coming years, only a few millions will remain of it. It combines high-speed internet and business network support. Both support measures are designed to provide a level playing field for living everywhere. Instead of the planned EUR 10 million, only EUR 4.1 million remain for internet connections. Extremely unfair to tens of thousands of Estonian people! As we know as a result of the storm crisis in South Estonia, this is not only a matter of equal opportunities but also of survival. Support for companies to create jobs for the construction of roads, internet, electricity or sewerage networks will be squeezed out completely. Only one third remains: only 600,000 euros remain on Estonia as a whole. What kind of influence is it expected to have? When we are talking about creating new jobs, it is crucial for all possible options to have the necessary skills and knowledge in the county. There are still some regional colleges left in Estonia, the location of which in either Viljandi, Haapsalu or Narva is not so much an educational policy choice, but clearly a regional policy choice. Thus, the region has more knowledge, prerequisites for innovation and development. However, neither the Minister for Education and Research, nor the Minister for Public Administration, nor the Minister for Rural Affairs, cares about the screaming lack of money in the colleges. That is not the interest of this government or of the budget presented to us. As has been said, there are cuts in this budget for EUR 65 million. All the interest in this budget is not a person living in a country or a small town, there is no reduction of inequality, there is no fairer Estonia. As social democrats, we have proposed amendments to prevent paralyzing cuts in rural areas. I ask you to support them, because life outside the great cities must be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U301	Thank you. Colleagues Ivari Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U302	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to add a few points concerning the budget. Now are we talking a lot about the top-up of the transitional support we discussed? The thing is, what's the contents? The essence is that it has been agreed within the framework of the European Union's common agricultural policy that we have some legal means of paying extra money. It will also be possible to pay another 15.3 million in 2020. One thing is that the theme is whether or not today's government will pay it. But the other thing is that it is actually also a platform for the next budget negotiations with the European Union that are ahead of us. It is clear that it is extremely difficult for anyone who should then be the Minister for Rural Affairs to go to the negotiations when, on the other hand, the table is said this way: 'But listen, dear Estonia, you are saying that there is inequality. You have been given the opportunity to alleviate inequality, but why have you not implemented it? Perhaps your talk is hypocritical and you do not need to keep these agricultural subsidies as close to the European Union average as possible. ' It is also undoubtedly the case that the top-up theme is one thing in the 2020 budget, the other is the same platform for the next negotiations that will start in 2020. In the previous Riigikogu, which I remember, the honourable EKRE Group had two proposals on how to promote agriculture. One of them was the ban on religious killing, or banning halal killing. We discussed it for a long time, and then we found that there was no halal-killing in Estonia. The other thing was top-up. That is why it is very strange that such a principled position has been abandoned and precisely because, as the Minister himself admitted, this topic was accidentally between the two chairs. He thought it was in the budget in the spring, but in the autumn it turned out the mice had chewed it up. There is now another subject, Amendment 26. The state budget doesn't always have to do all the good things with a big wallet. There are established policies that are carried out with a relatively modest wallet, but which have a very large and effective impact on a large number of people. One of these issues is the disunity programme, which has been implemented, I believe, for the last 15 years. Just as in the case of direct payments, in the case of the settlement programme, let us say, my participation is entirely there. At the level of EUR 2 million, even in 2018, there was support from the State, which allowed 1500 applicants to improve their water supply, sewerage, road or also autonomous electricity connections, which are extremely topical. This programme works very sensibly, one third is the applicant's share, one third is the municipality's share, one third is the state's share. It is clear that this money will not be enough to cover all the demands, and if, for example, 2 million more were to be added to the expansion of the dispersal programme, this would be a very sensible and pragmatic approach. Especially when you look at the plans for 100 million rural programmes. Nobody has anything against 100 million, but we don't know where the tail or horns of this program are. With regard to the settlement programme, we have practice and experience, and there is also a need, especially when we look at the supply of electricity and the need for the development of an autonomous power supply for people living in a distributed area. So, ladies and gentlemen, please support Amendments 15 and 26. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U303	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U304	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U305	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U306	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If you believe the promises made by political parties belonging to the government in spring, there should be a budget on the table that lowers income tax to 15%, lowers VAT to 15%, raises the pension by EUR 100, builds a ready city hall, contributes to new four-way roads, etc. On the basis of Jüri Ratas' promises as Prime Minister, the budget before us to cover the deficit for the last three years should be in considerable surplus. However, ladies and gentlemen, nothing like this will be found in the 2020 budget. For the fourth year in a row, the budget is in structural deficit, i.e. despite economic growth, the government is living at the expense of the future, without any reasonable reason. Despite the deficit, there is no new major initiative in this budget either. This budget will not help to implement any major substantive reform. No matter what to think about government commitments or official government priorities, they will not be met from this budget either. This is the first budget in the last 30 years to reach so far into the pockets of pensioners that even the average pension goes under income tax, despite the firm promise of the largest political party in the government that the pension exemption will be maintained. When the Reform Party proposed to restore the situation that existed until 2016 that everyone's pension was tax-free for the average pension, we received the answer that the cost of such a change was more than EUR 100 million. In other words, the situation has been made more harmful for pensioners than for 2016 by more than EUR 100 million. All members of the Riigikogu who consider the taxation of pensions unfair, please support Amendment 29! But let us now see what the members of the government consider important. During the summer, we all heard that the Minister of Finance had a plan to start building roads four ways. Whether the PPP is the best way to do this or should be done directly from the budget, but when we look at the state budget, we see that reality is the opposite. The road construction budget will fall by a total of 14 million euros compared to this year, and the financing of the section of Tallinn on the Tartu Road Kose-Mäo section already foreseen in the budget strategy in 2016 has been significantly reduced. In fact, a large part of the decision already made in the budget has already been made today without financial cover. Yes, you thought correctly, no new major road constructions will be found in this budget. None! And if there is no road construction in the budget, then, ladies and gentlemen, we know that this road construction cannot come. All the members of the Riigikogu who support the completion of the four-track section of the Mäo, please support Amendment 23! During the summer we also heard that the Minister of the Interior wanted to create an internal defence reserve. Here too, the reality is quite different: there is a round zero in the budget. There was nothing to argue about where these men came from and what kind of weaponry and equipment they needed to be provided with. If the budget doesn't find money for the most important priority of its own, which was discussed over the summer, then it can't really come. The same zero is foreseen in the budget for the construction of the city hall, i.e. for what the Prime Minister in office has called the most important priority for his governments for three years in a row, even so important that a few years ago it was said that it was the construction of the city hall that would cause the Estonian economy to grow again. Leaving aside the absurdity of the construction of a house to grow its economy, the fact is that not a penny of money has been found for four years in a row, even for the most important promise of its own. These, of course, good listeners, are just a few of the many examples where the words and actions of the members of the government are diametrically contradictory. In general, the notion is that the state budget is the document that is the most important measure of each government's ability to cope, or at least one of the most important measures. I believe you agree with me that the budget for 2020 is exactly the kind that drives the barn down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U307	Thank you. The fruit of Thomas, next call, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U308	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak today on a very important subject, which I believe has not been given enough attention in society, also by politicians. There will also be no indication of this important problem or issue in the draft budget for next year. At one point, all of us may face the fact that we or someone close to us has suffered a serious illness that cannot be healed. This is when heaven and earth change places. This is a situation where, in addition to a doctor or nurse who treats illness and relieves physical distress, other specialists are also needed: psychologists, mental health care providers, social workers, experience counsellors who support the person and help him to understand his situation and cope with the difficult situation. In other parts of the world, such patients are dealt with by professionals who work as a team and provide comprehensive support to the patient. Northern Estonia Regional Hospital has built the only palliative treatment centre in Estonia for just over three years. Unfortunately, the health insurance fund only finances the work of nurses and doctors, and all other specialists must pay the hospital from their own funds. The hospital budget, however, has its limits. This situation is also characterised by the fact that the palliative treatment centre in PERH is the only one in Estonia to date. At the same time, people need palliative treatment throughout Estonia. In PERH, the palliative treatment centre also works mainly because of the enthusiasm and a high level of empathy of the specialists working there. I can say this with certainty because I also had the opportunity to work two and a half years as a psychologist at the Palliative Treatment Centre of the North Estonian Regional Hospital. Against this background, I, together with three of my colleagues, Kalle Laanet, Andrus Seed and Signe Riisalo, tabled an amendment to the state budget for the following year, where, if adopted, the support specialists needed for palliative treatment could be financed and the establishment of a palliative treatment service could be established elsewhere in Estonia. Please, ladies and gentlemen, think that we may all need palliative care at some point, and support Amendment 30. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U309	Thank you very much. Mart Võrguship, next call, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U310	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 11 October, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, together with 11 representative business organisations, called on the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu in connection with the decision of the Government of the Republic of 24 September to direct nearly 39 million euros from the resource efficiency measure to other areas. A review of what kind of carvering has been done to patch up budget holes with this money was given some time ago by my colleague Sõerd. In their letter, companies indicate that the withdrawal of 39 million from the resource efficiency measure could not achieve resource savings of EUR 124 million and an increase in value added of EUR 216 million. Estonia's resource efficiency is the last in the European Union, and without state support, the situation may not improve rapidly. Mining and processing companies may fail to invest at least EUR 111 million to improve resource efficiency. The state receives millions of euros of tax revenue from investments and added value. Several international organisations, such as the European Commission and the International Energy Agency, have recently advised Estonia to channel more money into promoting resource efficiency and the circular economy. Business representative organisations have proposed: if it is not possible for the country to return some 39 million to the resource efficiency measure, a refund of EUR 22 million is considered essential, allowing all companies that have already done the necessary preparatory work in the form of resource audits or who are still in the process of carrying out this work. I believe that on such important issues as increasing the resource efficiency of companies and supporting our business environment, increasing competitiveness and the environment, the government cannot and must not act in a word-breaking manner, all the more so as the basic principles of the Central Party, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Association of Government of the Isamaa Party for the years 2019 to 2023 state that the Government of the Republic will continue to support investments in the resource efficiency of companies. As a result, I proposed a revision of the draft state budget for 2020 to channel EUR 25 million into the resource efficiency measure so that at least those companies that have carried out a mandatory resource audit as a precondition for the application could apply for investment support. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take our business request seriously and support my proposal for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U311	Thank you very much. Colleagues Helmen Hunter, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U312	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, at second reading, the Riigikogu has almost the most important draft of the year, the state budget for 2020. When almost nine months ago the elections were held and people were asked for support to implement the promises, political parties prioritised increased funding for research and development, reduction of regional disparities, support for agriculture, improved livelihoods of Estonian people and families, increased care allowance and reduced care burden, and retirement for the elderly. One of the most generous promises was the political parties that formed today's government. People gave their votes, believed in the promiseers, and now they are waiting for their promises to be redeemed. Unfortunately, the budget speaks a different language, and it does not make any sense of what was promised with a big mouth. The Social Democrats have tabled 12 amendments to the draft state budget for 2020 and are committed to making the place more accessible to those in need in the nursing home, to the full payment of transitional support to farmers, and to research and higher education so as to receive the necessary additional funding. The proposals presented are realistic, covered by suitable sources of cover and improve the situation of those who have been deceived and failed by the government. Estonia's social protection system is characterised by a small share of social protection expenditure in GDP compared to other EU countries. The same applies to old-age pensions: Estonia's expenditure on old-age pensions is one of the lowest in Europe. Unfortunately, today's government also violates this principle, which has been in Estonia for years, that the average pension is exempt from income tax. In 2020, all pension beneficiaries will pay income tax on an amount exceeding EUR 500. At the same time, the own contribution to paying for maintenance costs in Estonia is one of the highest in Europe. The trend is, to the detriment of the person in need of care and his/her loved ones, i.e. in Estonia, care is largely the responsibility of carers or finance. The burden on carers is very high, both mentally and financially, and the family as a whole is disturbed, not to mention the different treatment of the elderly without children or children. In recent years, unfortunately, the financial contribution of local authorities has decreased and public expenditure on general care has increased. For example, the share of the elderly or his family in paying for the care home was 65% in 2010, it had already risen to 76% in 2016 and it was 78% in 2017. Abandoning the work of family members and becoming a carer if the difference between the income of a family member in need of care and the cost of a nursing home cannot be paid, it is certainly not the best solution for both people and the state. A professional career will not be carried out, the state will not pay taxes, the children you want will not be born. So far, no funds have been found in the state budget to support people with care needs and their families in a comparable volume to those of other countries. Such support is not only an additional cost for the public sector, but also the tax revenue that people who have cared for their loved ones at home are going to bring back to the labour market when they return to the state budget. Our amendment to allocate EUR 20 million to the welfare programme would significantly alleviate the problem of the high cost of a nursing home in the new year. We see that, as of 1 July, care homes for people in need of assistance and care would be guaranteed, if necessary, for pensions, which would mean that the state had to cover the price difference with the municipalities. This obligation to pay from both the state and local government budgets makes municipalities create all previous social services that guarantee long-term and supported livelihoods for the elderly at home. As a result, the number of people who may need care would be reduced, but if there were suitable support and assistance, you could also manage at home today and in the future. For its part, the state would eventually start to look at the health and care system as a whole and united and a weak link between the various services and levels could be resolved. People working in social and health systems have long understood the crucial importance of introducing integrated care and health care and their integrated financing. In short, every person gets the right service at the right time. This is the only way to ensure that people live in their homes for as long as possible and that care is needed only when there is a very high need for help. In 1990, Pope John Paul II concluded his century letter as follows: "... never was the decisive factor in the production of the land and later it was the capital... Today, the decisive factor is the person himself. " Let us keep our people, and let us take its first step together! A good start would be to support Socialist Amendment 27, which would significantly alleviate the problem of high cost of nursing homes as early as 1 July 2020. In order to allow the Committee on Monetary Affairs to examine, analyse and support both this proposal and other good amendments in a calm manner, the Social Democrats also propose that the second reading of the draft State Budget Act 2020 82 be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U313	Thank you very much. Let's add it to the second defeat proposal. Now my colleague, Hanno Pevkur, is speaking. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U314	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't write the speech, but I wanted to share some concerns with you. Of course, I'm glad some ambassadors are listening to this, so the rest are in the rooms. Since at first reading not all members of the Riigikogu are able to go to the board here, the text of the second reading should be viewed not only but also the state budget as a whole. So what do we see about this 82 SE or next year's state budget, which should be the most important document in the country? We can see that this is a pretty sloppy budget made overfoot. Let's maybe leave things in shape behind a lot, but still. The explanatory memorandum is a close text of 435 pages. I'm gonna run some numbers for Homeland Administration. On page 297, table 288, no numbers. I'd like to compare with the previous years, no numbers. On page 293, Table 282 is the same. The 2019 state budget, instead of numbers, is the star combination N/A.I do not know whether it comes from the English expression not available or whether it means something else, but in this budget, at least in the printed version that was distributed to us members of the Riigikogu, there are no correct numbers. In fact, it is the case with this budget that I do not remember that, when I was in the government or in Parliament, I would have seen such a superficial or superficial budget before. The numbers are well consolidated, it's like it's all written together. You don't normally read the budget anymore, you don't know who's spending how much. The costs of one ministry have been distributed across several ministries. This budget is very poorly monitored. If Mr Tamm wanted to make a budget today, I am not sure that he could understand very precisely what line there is, how much money will be allocated to the theatres, for example. I'm afraid he can't figure it out. It is therefore very difficult to make any correct assessment, even if it is difficult to say whether it is a bad budget or a good budget. It's unobservable. Now for the amendments. I do not see any amendments by the coalition on the list of amendments. Is it really such a good budget for all the members of the Riigikogu who are in the coalition that there is no need to change anything? We are always saying that Parliament must not be a rubber stamp. And with the most important document, although it is said that Parliament must not be a rubber stamp, the coalition has taken the view that everything is wonderful, the government has done super-jobs. I'm not so sure about that. I am absolutely certain that there are ambassadors in the coalition who would like to make a difference, but as we heard today in Question Time from the Minister of Finance, at least one party has only one truth that everyone is following. Awesome! I have understood that political parties are also perfectly democratic movements, where it is perfectly normal that there are several truths or opinions, so to say. I myself signed several amendments. I'll just take one. I have received a mandate from South Estonia. Surely road safety is always important. I am not going to talk about the reduction in the amount of funding for the entire road to Tallinn, relying on some kind of confusing rather than certain performance reserve, which is made up of European funds. The financing of the Tartu road as a whole has been reduced. I look at the Tartu roundabout, which is vital for South Estonia, and there is no money. That's what the badges are all about. Colleagues have also pointed out in the past certain budgetary issues, whether in the social field or elsewhere, where political choices are involved. It can always be argued, of course, that there is a lack of money for something, and there may always be more money needed, but these choices must be justifiable. The choices of this budget are very difficult to justify. If I go and talk to my constituents or if someone asks me about the budget, I have to say that I do not understand this budget. The position of the political group has already been expressed, but I also feel so personally. Not because the amendment that I have tabled or that I have tabled, and that my fellow Members have rejected, we are not opposed to this budget. No. There are just so many deficits in this budget, and there are many things that are not there at all. I am not even talking about the border today, although, yes, I have talked a lot about border construction in the past, I have also debated with the Minister of Finance here on the issue of border construction, whether the money has been added or reduced. Well, there's not a penny left. When this year's $3 million has been taken away, it's raised to the next year, and then it's said that, oh, we put $3 million in the next year, well, that's not true. If you take away this year and raise the same amount to the next year, then there's nothing added. The earlier amounts, which have been in the construction of the border, have also been transferred from previous years. If there are 3 million added in 2021, 2022 and 2023, it is added not for border construction but for maintenance, maintenance costs. It's natural to put that money in it. In this sense, both the security of the Estonian state and the security of the border are decisions that are very difficult to understand. The Minister of the Interior is talking with a big mouth about some kind of misunderstanding about an armed unit. It hasn't been given any extra money. Perhaps all these promises have been big words, starting with the Tartu highway and ending with the border and some incomprehensible internal defence unit, for which there is still no precise knowledge of what it is. It has been said that yes, it will, it will, it will, yes, we will make things right. Actually, that's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen, Why not have a long chat with you who are in this Chamber and with you who are in the rooms and with all of you who are watching this debate in this Chamber via the Internet? But the final conclusion is still simple. The final conclusion is that this budget is very poorly monitored, this budget has been put together badly, dirtyly and hastily, which does not allow the Member to make a normal decision. That is why we are also in favour of stopping reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U315	Thank you very much. Heidy Purga, next call, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U316	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The current government union has not taken any steps to move towards a common Estonian-language education. This issue has been decided to be buried, as shown in this budget document. The Riigikogu has discussed the transition to education in Estonian, among other things, at the debate on a matter of national importance; it has discussed this report on human development in the dissections of this Chamber; it has discussed it in committees, discussed it in the media, discussed it with one another. All scientists and professionals have confirmed the necessity of this decision and together state that it is a segregating system that is contrary to human rights standards, where one part of the population is therefore not able to use it, that they are now and in the future struggling to find a job and feel that they are not full citizens, and that they are, to some extent, also isolated from society. Why, however, do we not find anything in the budget about the transition to education in Estonian? The amendment tabled by the Reform Party in this Chamber today, which will also come to the vote, provides for the allocation of EUR 1 million to start this transition. The aim of the amendment is to support the teaching of the Estonian language of non-Estonian children studying in Estonian comprehensive schools and kindergartens, allowing them to have additional hours, allowing them to hire additional teachers, develop teaching tools and others. This calculated amount is based on the HTM Regulation, which has set up EUR 1606 per student in support of teacher's labour costs, in addition to the costs of teacher training, educational resources, by the way, also working with parents, if necessary to hire an additional teacher and others, which makes a total of about EUR 1800 per student. We have assumed in this amendment that students who are studying in the Estonian language environment will need support for less than three years. This is where I would like to end, because we have talked so much about this. I would ask my fellow Members to take this amendment, which is to be voted on, seriously and certainly to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U317	Thank you very much. Mr Riina Sikkut, please! [[R. Sikkut asks for more time.]] I'm sure there'll be three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U318	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This morning there was a conference called 'Democracy and Power' in this house. Thank you very much to Mr Kallas for organising this interesting debate. In the meantime, I would have liked to clap and disagree, but in the end, we need more of this type of debate. There is greater clarity about what is important, where we want to go and how we want to do it in greater consensus. Very much came up this morning on issues such as bureaucracy, processing, alienation, efficiency and inclusion, for example, that there are too many officials and too many laws. As Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has illustrated: people are being processed out the office door. Decisions take time, solutions come barely, it is difficult to involve, because there are many parties involved. We should continue to act quickly and effectively! You can't argue with that. But I think we could all benefit from a more nuanced approach. We often make a simplification error. As a society, we have reached the point that there are actually few simple solutions. The concerns we face are mostly complex. Our task is to distinguish what is simple from them and what is complicated. Then it will be possible to quickly solve a simple, but serious concern for a person, there is no need to deal with anyone outside the door. It will then be possible to reduce alienation from the country and reduce bureaucracy. But in the same way, we will be able to look for more detailed solutions to the complex issues that affect the lives of many people, which affect the wider economy, involve, discuss, consider and create a flexible, perhaps even more complex, solution, but one that does not leave anyone between the gears. What I'm saying here may sound abstract, but we have to keep this in mind. Let me give you some examples. For example, tomorrow's draft of the second pension pillar will certainly have such a great impact on people's livelihood, on investments in the Estonian economy and on the general trust of people in the state, that making a quick decision under the efficiency-enhancing label is evil and will harm us all. There are also many fundamental, world-view issues in the state budget that we are discussing today, where there is probably no consensus. How important is the nominal balance of the budget? What about structural? Should we aim for a reduction in the tax burden? Should the role of the state in one field or another be greater or smaller? Should we invest in oil shale energy at all? Let's talk, let's consider. In general, the coalition remains a priority, no matter who is in the coalition. Now we are going to vote on the amendments. Four-line highways, money for Eesti Energia, we cannot reach an agreement on these matters, and that is understandable. However, the amendments also include those that are not world-view, but that solve some real concerns. The amounts there are lower than the rounding errors in the cost of four-line roads and oilworks. I am also quoting Ülle Madise's Monday interview: according to the Constitution, the Riigikogu decides on the revenue and expenditure of the state. We know that, in reality, our hands are very much tied to making any changes in the budget at all, not to mention some major change in priorities. But we can really do something. A troubled child must receive help! It is our responsibility, it is the responsibility of adults, you are in opposition or coalition, a liberal or a conservative, we cannot leave children in trouble! As Liina Kersna has already said from this remote control today: let us make sure that no young life is left unlived! Spiritual health concerns also need to be addressed, since we may all need expert help. Therefore, please vote in favour of the amendments that help to train school psychologists and clinical psychologists, enable a growing number of worried children to help and help support children's good behaviour in schools by playing evidence-based behavioural skills! It doesn't take a million. We can do it today! I think you are all ready to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U319	Thank you very much. Colleagues Kristen Michal, please! Extra time, so eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U320	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen here and in the offices or wherever you are! I think most of them are in offices, I presume. I am talking about our proposal that the financing of roads should be increased. Although I have no illusions about what will happen here afterwards, as if the coalition were to support the opposition's good proposals, despite having come from the opposition, I hope that some of these words will be remembered and will change something in the future. First of all, it is probably not a political question, if there is, then perhaps this is a question of choice of values, the construction of roads, and how quickly Estonia really needs four-track roads and improved road quality. Perhaps the only question is the price of roads, both in money and in the price of nature, and the price in the sense of giving in. I therefore do not believe that there is a very large difference between different governments, coalitions, oppositions. We have therefore made one suggestion, seeing what is happening with road funding in the budget, which will be reduced by 14 million. Aivar Kokka, who gave some sort of circular answer, was also asked here. I don't feel bad about him at all, but the answer was a little round. If you look at the four-track road of Kose. It is the largest item and it was agreed in 2016, the estimated cost is 170 million. That makes one very important piece four-track. If you think about history, this is the largest infrastructure construction in the history of free Estonia. This budget now yawns because of the activities of the previous government in today's government, too, Taavi Aas has said that there is no final response to it, a 30+ million hole. I would argue that the funding of roads is not a good thing. This is another reason why this amendment should be supported. The third thing that's important to remember. I understand that it is well-fashioned to talk about PPP as a solution to our future or current budget problems. 'In the acute camera' said, I think, a representative of the Latvian Ministry of Transport quite smoothly, that this is a private loan in the budget, i.e. the withdrawal of liabilities from the budget. And the hope is it'll work. In Estonia, greater funding for road construction in the future should not be based on the hope that we will succeed in doing so. This is particularly the case with regard to Tallinn's experience, as it shows that if the budget was the limit for borrowing and the loan was taken in this way, it ended with the fact that Tallinn's taxpayer now has to pay very much. The EKRE and Isamaa in the coalition know from the City Council of Tallinn that these agreements are being tried to change for a long time, but this change is not a reality, but rather a red one in the face of the mayor. Our proposal is, yes, to increase the funding of roads by 20 million and the source of cover is a reduction in the economic and wage costs of ministries. I think that it is in perfect harmony with the spirit of the age, that ministries should also spend less when the working age population decreases. In the longer term, I will certainly call on those who are in the government today and whoever is in the next government (so to speak, the sooner this next government will come, the better of course) so that governments can still do what the then Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure is going to do in 2016, with the proposal that all the major four-track roads should be completed over the next few years. Looking at the time, what is financially feasible for us is 10 to 15 years. The inertia of road construction is 5 to 7 years. This means that even if we had a lot of money, we could deal with those objects that are working, new objects, new routes and all the other things that take time to prepare. So once again, I think there are a lot of good proposals. No party should be politically, in a world-view, opposed to additional funding for roads. For your constituents you have, I think, all promised high-quality road infrastructure. The solutions may be different, but since there is no other solution today, the end result cannot be that voters are allowed to finance more roads, but voters receive funding for declining roads. So that is why I am asking the coalition in particular, as well as the opposition, to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U321	Thank you very much. Mr Juske is the next speaker. But I'll tell you before, for the first time, the performer's been a little out of the flowers expressing concern that few people are listening and where they're all at. I'm just looking at Mr. Jack White and saying that everything that's said here goes down in history, all speeches go down in history. By the way, those who don't speak don't go down in history. Mr. Samke is going down in history now. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U322	Austet President! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course I want to start with history. It's about to end our country's 100th birthday year. But in 2020, the big jubilees won't get along. By the way, next year comes a hundred years from the construction of the honorable Riigikogu building, which, right, rose to the walls of the medieval Order Castle. But it is equally important that next year will be a hundred years since the first Constitution of the Republic of Estonia prepared by the Constituent Assembly came into force. According to the centenary of the century of our first constitution, the Social Democratic Party Group has made a very nice proposal for next year's state budget, the content of which is that in the event of the anniversary of the Constitution it could be given to all graduates of the primary school next year, or the ninth grade students, a luxury edition with a proper hard cover in our constitution. Of course, it would not be its very first, but its current 1992 constitution. Why is that important? First of all, ninth grade, I think, is the best company, because a lot more young people graduate from primary school than a year later, for example, they continue their studies in upper secondary school. It would include anyone in the ninth grade. In the ninth grade, young people have a social education on their schedule, where our constitutional order is also discussed. Certainly, it is also important that young people in the ninth grade become elected, or 16 years old. I myself have been a social teacher at Gustav Adolf Gymnasium for several years, and I have been in contact with this group of young people who are now reaching the end of primary school. This is a generation that has had the happiness and joy of being born, growing and going to school in a free Estonia, a fully democratic society. For them, these are democratic principles, which are also enshrined in our constitution, basic and self-evident. At the same time, it is difficult for them to imagine that only 30 years ago there was no democratic regime in Estonia. They find it hard to understand what their lives would be like if they did not have one of today's personal freedoms. What if they didn't have all these? We know from history how fragile a democratic regime can be, which generally collapses not overnight, but gradually, as we know from several examples of history. We know that we also have certain political movements today, associations that have attacked the fundamental values of our democratic society, which has attacked our rule of law. It is all the more important for young people to understand how important it is to maintain democratic order, to maintain constitutional order, and to understand what are the traits that make one country democratic and another country not. Today's government coalition has not supported this amendment for any reason. I very much hope that the reason is not that a political party is part of a government union, which certain members have attacked fundamental democratic values. But we all have the opportunity in this Chamber today to give young people a fine gift in support of this amendment and so defend our democratic constitutional order. Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U323	Thank you. Rock Hard, please! It'll take less than five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U324	Good friends! Well, let's get on with history. This budget is historic. If we adopt this budget, we will for the first time adopt an accrual-based budget in Estonia, an activity-based budget. Maybe as a result, maybe not, but I'm a hundred percent in line with Hanno Pevkur's words from the remote: it's a hell of a hard budget to read, it's a hell of a hard budget to understand. This is not only the concern of the opposition, it is, good friends, also the concern of the coalition. All right, Leo, I'll make sure you nod. That's right. There is nothing to say, it is still a great victory for the officials of the Ministry of Finance that they have been able to lead the Riigikogu in previous times to having exactly such a budget for today. I'm more than sure we don't know a lot of what's actually hiding behind these beautiful sentences in this budget. Personally, I've pecked things out in my field by calling the Ministry, asking exactly how one or the other thing in the future will be divided into what things are like. You can't read these things out of this budget. For example, the role of volunteer saviors, how much money goes to them. I know that this amount will remain the same as last year. I've been looking for this budget for the 'Home Shots Times' program, which is so important and saves the lives of so many people, I hope. As far as I know, this program will not come, although we will not read anything about it from this budget. One thing I want to mention more is this amendment, which was very gratefully made by the Reform Party, i.e. increasing the pay of teachers. Good friends! The government has told us that teachers' salaries will rise by 5.5%, 65 euros, but there is no money in this budget. The government has made goats in the budget. They have taken 3% of the 20% that is awarded to local governments for equalising teachers' salaries, with half of the teacher's additional salary increase. This means that if the teacher does not receive the teacher's minimum wage, his salary may not rise and probably will not rise by 5.5%. After all, it is the rural areas, especially the local authorities, which are united, where there are many small rural schools and where, as a result of the accession agreement, the school reform cannot be carried out. These municipalities have to put in the money that is missing themselves. So, in summary, we will hear from this budget, and I'm sure there will be a lot of nuances and things coming out this year that we will find out in a month or two: what is really in this budget and what is not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U325	Thank you. Echo Kallas, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U326	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about one specific amendment, it is Amendment 28, which says that more money should be allocated to IT investments. This is an amendment tabled by the Reform Party. We also have a cover source designed for this purpose. Speaking of this amendment, I would like to start from a distance. All the changes in the world are based essentially on three important elements. One is that we have everything more than ever. We have more people, more countries, more choices, more goods, more services. Secondly, mobility, the fact that all people, goods and services can move to any point in the world without obstacles and very quickly. The third is our mentality, or change in our aspirations, our understanding of the world, the way we deal with things ourselves. We want everything more than ever, and we want to consume these things exactly where we are. These are the foundations of the digital transformation we are involved in. Estonia has done very well. We smelled this change sooner than the others. We came up with digital identities in 2000 when others couldn't even dream of it. We came up with an electronic vote that is unique in the world. We also came up with an e-residency program that is envied elsewhere in the world. Think about how many countries there are in the world, small countries that no one knows anything about, you will understand that Estonia is small, but very good. We are known, and are known precisely because we are an e-state and we have made the right decisions at the right time. But in order to make these right decisions, we also need to allocate money. It has been our strength and we have made the right choices. Regarding e-residency, I also say that it is a unique programme in the world, which has brought Estonia quite a lot of benefits. We have 50,000 e-residents, we have 6,000 companies that are established by e-residents and 1,200 new jobs. This has certainly brought Estonia income. It cannot be overlooked that people live their lives in many ways online. If I'm still looking around here, I can see that gentlemen of the EKRE are definitely on the Internet right now and maybe a few more. That's how people live their lives online, in English, you could even say onlive that they live there. This means that the state must also be there for the person, that is, services must be available and this must not be difficult. We have good examples in Estonia, such as the Road Administration. If you want to change your driving licence, you can do it very easily on the Internet. But we also have bad examples if you have to click and click, but you won't find anything. It's especially difficult for older people. These systems are too complex and people are frustrated by the fact that they have to submit their data several times, over and over again. Why do I have to submit everything again once I've submitted my data to the state? There were different ideas in the programmes of many political parties, perhaps even all political parties, about how to cut red tape. Bureaucracy can certainly be reduced by e-services being easier to manage and better understood by people. But like I said, it all takes money. Money is also taken so that people can consume these services at all. It is in rural areas that it is also necessary to build internet connections so that people can access all these services. These services cannot be developed unless additional funds are allocated for this purpose. We must not rest on the laurels that we have received because we have developed an e-state and are therefore known in the world. Others make similar solutions and even pass us by. We need new success stories and we need to move our services to a new level. A total of 25 million are intended to complement and develop IT services throughout the state budget. This is not enough, given the size of the country and how important it is to people. So our proposal, which I also ask colleagues from other political groups in the Riigikogu to support, concerns the allocation of additional money for IT investments. Of course, we are not the ones who have to say exactly where this money has to go, but without this money being allocated, without agreeing that it really is necessary, we cannot go on. IT services will not be reduced, they will be more, they must be accessible to people, convenient and easy to use. I therefore ask, ladies and gentlemen, to support Amendment 28. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U327	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U328	... the revenue from the sale of the CO2 quota, in so far as it exceeds climate neutrality, is a very appropriate source of financing. The planned contribution from the Ministry of Social Affairs to DigInE is also very well suited to it, as the field of activity of this company, i.e. personal medicine and data analysis of health data, fits very well with this concept when we talk about applied research. There are also suitable costs planned for the functions of the Minister of Population. So, ladies and gentlemen, vote in favour of this proposal, then you will also vote in favour of Estonia's development. Of course, by voting the other way around, you will vote against development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U329	Thank you. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U330	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also begin by pointing out, as many previous speakers have already pointed out, that this budget is very difficult to read. However, there is always a way to turn to someone with better financial literacy and have some things explained to themselves. I have to say that it was not an easy task for people with much better financial literacy than I am. I deepened two areas, which are my passion, which are defence and rescue. One of the few good things about this budget is that, fortunately, the clippers did not concern the defence sector, but, as a good colleague once said in Leo Kunna, the current situation allows us more or less to maintain existing military capabilities, but it does not allow us to acquire any new ones, and this in a very changed security situation. This last expression has also been quoted several times in recent days. I'll focus on the rescue area. Minus, minus, minus. The rise in the pay of big-mouthed rescuers in a situation where professional rescuers age, leave work and there are no new ones, is very worrying in the future. It is very nice to look at the statistical numbers on the screen in PowerPoint at the seminars and conferences: that is, where we have volunteered for the rescuers, that is, where we have the commandos, what volunteering, what the contribution of free will to the internal security of the country. As a volunteer savior myself, I can bring before you a piece of a volunteer savior of everyday life. The numbers are great, but the volunteer savior does nothing without technology. Most of the volunteers' rescue equipment, we're talking about rescue cars, is approaching 30+ already. Volunteering is now a situation that I saw in the Defence League in the mid- and late 1990s. When the first great hurricane went over and the gray weekday arrived, when they realized that it was great, we had the motivation, but the motivation didn't buy a rescue car, the motivation didn't support the command building, no one gave fuel to the rescue car for motivation, then there was a motivational crisis. Five years ago, when two volunteer rescuers met on the street, what was the story? Training, events that have been attended, training, or development of salvation. Today, when two volunteer rescuers meet, they say, "Hey, that company turned into a cheaply used clutch," "hey, if you've tried to fix the transmission there," "hey, that's where you get this piece for cash much cheaper than the official bill." It's a weekday. Unfortunately, I didn't see the Home Office's line or can't read what it says about emergency funding. Ladies and gentlemen, A few weekends ago, we survived the crisis. The crisis that left much of South Estonia powerless. We learned how dependent we really are on one little thing, electricity. We saw how these same rescuers could not respond to the challenges because they couldn't get fuel from anywhere, and so on. God forbid that we face the same or greater crisis in the circumstances of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U331	Thank you. Kersti Sarapuu, please! 5 + 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U332	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. We have reached second reading of next year's state budget. At first reading, the opposition promised to present its constructive proposals for improvement on the draft. As otherwise the document is in its original form, I will focus on the opposition amendments received in total 33. First of all, I have a warm recommendation for the opposition. In order to look serious, the initiative needs to be agreed on what needs to be done. If there is a desire to simply turn amendments into a night hearing, then it is understandable, but it is not surprising after that that such amendments will not be supported in this Chamber. If there is a budgetary position at the heart, then it is important to make proposals on it and to show which expenditure could not be spent in order to improve the budgetary position at their expense. Right now, the Reform Party is all messed up like Kört-Pärt's shirt. But some examples. Amendment 1 of the Reform Party envisages a cost reduction of EUR 204.4 million in order to achieve a structural balance. There is a childish statement in the explanation that the distribution of the budget reduction should not be made by the Riigikogu, but by the author of the draft. Let me remind you: Paragraph 120 of our yellow Bible clearly states that the amendment to the draft state budget must contain the exact wording of changes to revenue, expenditure, investment and financing transactions in the draft state budget, which are the subject of all amendments. I am therefore very disappointed by Mr Ligis and Mr Sõerdis, who allowed the chairman of his group to sign such an amendment at all. It is possible that this was, of course, an informed activity. At the same time as we are talking about moving the budget into a structural balance, the opposition has made proposals for 123.5 million euros, which are covered by the reserve of the Government of the Republic of Estonia. In this respect, the reserve of the Government of the Republic will have 101.6 million funds in 2020. Therefore, the opposition's aim is to empty the reserve and to be absent in order to satisfy these wishes. Although the Committee on Monetary Affairs had the impression in the debate on the state budget for 2020 that the members of the Reform Party Group had done very efficient and good homework on the budget, we would have expected that the sources of protection for the amendments would have been acceptable, substantive and serious. In any case, the Centre Party Group supports the Government of Jüri Ratas and the state budget for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U333	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U334	Ladies and gentlemen, 12 amendments have been tabled by the Social Democrats. I boldly invite you all to support them. All of them have adequate sources of cover, you don't have to worry about where the money comes from. You can check it out. Above all, I recall, of course, what Helmen Kütt said as a representative of the group: before the elections, practically all political parties have made a promise that this Riigikogu will take very seriously the livelihood of older people. There is one simple way to do this: to support Amendment 27, which states that, from 1 July, the state budget would ensure that those in need of local government support have the confidence that they will have a home. I think people could have this fortress, given how much they are often missing at the moment in order to pay for a nursing home, and even those close to them often do not have the opportunity to cover the difference. I will tell you a little bit more about Amendment 14. I am very pleased that the old combat partner, Üllar, has come to the Chamber during the debate on this amendment. Amendment 14 does what we have to do, having made a commitment here in the Riigikogu in 2014 and 2015, when we adopted two important documents on the development of the country: 'The fundamentals of cultural policy until 2020' and 'The fundamentals of sport policy until 2030'. In 2015, the situation was that our beloved top creators, they were musicians or actors, but also museum scientists, earned almost 50% less wages than the Estonian average. At that time the agreed minimum was 730 euros and the Estonian average was 1070 euros. This agreement, which was written into the fundamentals of cultural policy, was that by 2020, the direction will be that the salary of cultural workers with higher education will catch up with the average salary in Estonia. I had the opportunity to serve the Estonian state for four years as Minister of Culture, and during that time we raised the salary of cultural workers with higher education by 80%. It was a big job, there were big disputes in the government, but we moved in this rhythm and even a little premature compared to what was foreseen in the fundamentals of cultural policy. So the difference, which was close to 50% in 2015, fell to about 10% by this year, i.e. the salary of a higher-education cultural worker rose to EUR 1300. We need to take one more step in one year, even less than the average for the last four years, and raise the minimum level of a higher-education cultural worker by about 12% to reach the target. But no, the government has no ambition to keep that promise. The tip is that no one in God's name can say that nothing has been given, 2.5% of the wages of cultural workers, which will take us back a big, big step beyond the target, because the average wage will rise several times faster than the 2.5% paid by cultural workers. That's a sad story. And we will talk about the fact that it is important for us to have Estonian national culture, its survival and development, just as the parties on the right often love to stress. How do you imagine this without motivated people working in the cultural field? So actually take this step for the functioning and development of Estonian national culture and vote in favour of Amendment 14! More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U335	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U336	All sports friends know that coach wages have been a topic that has been mentioned for years in this Chamber and, of course, in society more generally, not just here. Perhaps the story is that there are a lot of trainers working in Estonia who receive minimum income. At the same time, we often expect them to have the same pedagogical skills as teachers, for we give them the best we have, perhaps our children. Coaches train them, they set an example, they often shape their values. The salaries of higher category coaches (I am talking about category V.V.V.V.) have reached EUR 1000 as a result of several years of effort. In 2015, it was EUR 580. We also took very big steps there to make sure that this salary is somehow credible, motivating for these people, so that we can also talk about some quality standards that we expect from the coaches. Exactly the same: this government coalition adds 2.5% on average to the coach wage increase, and the coach salary is again behind the Estonian average by the big steps. Imagine a full - time man from whom we expect pedagogical knowledge, that he is an example, that he knows the human body, that he knows how the body of a young person develops, that he can perform tasks that take into account the child's physique, while at the same time inspire, inspire, set an example for him. These people should be properly paid. You have the opportunity to take a step in this direction by supporting Amendment 14. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U337	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U338	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, the chairman of the Centre Party Group may have left the hall at the moment, but I would have had such a suggestion that he could have given this instructive speech that we heard from this panel to those in the government who put together the budget. Because it's a poor budget. It is confusing and poorly readable, but the biggest problem with this budget is that there is, in principle, no major problem here for the future. Unfortunately, this budget does not make any major changes that should be made in Estonia. At times, it seems that those who put together this budget had simply forgotten the future. After all, we all know that Estonia is essentially facing a demography crisis with seven-pound boots, a very important ageing of society, but also a climate crisis. What do these crises mean? They mean that Estonia's ability to cope with rising pensions will gradually decline, but in an ageing society it will inevitably also be able to cope with rising health costs, and their funding opportunities will simply diminish. This also means, unfortunately, in the context of the climate crisis, the danger that, if nothing important is done, we will lose the current jobs and incomes of the Estonian people to those countries that are making a climate-friendly leap of technology from us, Estonia, just faster than inventing yet another scheme for the exhaustion of natural resources. The problem with this budget is basically the same as with this government. This problem is not about politicians; it is about the policies being pursued, the content of this policy or the lack of its content. All current policies need a very thorough change in thinking. Our policy must begin to be based on the fact that this century, the future of Estonia, is shaped by the same demographic changes, shaped by climate change. These are basically like the laws of nature, if we ignore them, the maximum result is that we can be fooled in this country, but this failure can also be fatal for the next generation. This budget does not take into account the solution of the problems that are important for the future. The members of the Reform Party made a number of amendments which would make it possible to improve this situation. Among them is the proposal to allocate additional resources to science, so that researchers can continue to focus on preparing the same technology and climate jump. We also proposed improving the situation of pensioners. Pensioners who receive an already very small average pension in Estonia and who see a fingertip increase next year will, unfortunately, have to start paying income tax on their already small pension according to the current rules. We wanted to change this situation so that the average pension would be exempt from income tax after the adoption of this amendment. Among these proposals is an additional injection of money for the transition to Estonian-language education, considering the future. On behalf of the Reform Party, I would ask you to think very seriously before you vote on the amendments and to support those proposals that would make this budget more forward-looking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U339	Thank you. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U340	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, People who may be watching us over the Internet! I will continue from here, where my colleague Keit has finished. I, too, am concerned, and I am primarily concerned about the future. Once, when I decided to come into politics, I did it precisely because I felt that we needed an even more long view of politics. Today, it seems to me, it's completely gone. In my opinion, this budget and, unfortunately, this government, too, could be called the government of living on the account of our children and the budget for living on the account of the future. Indeed, there are no decisions here that mean a future that will secure our lives and make our future more efficient and prosperous. Some examples. We have asked a lot about the resource efficiency measure. The chairman of the commission, Aivar Kokk, spins and tries to claim that this money cannot be used. Yet, in his speech, Maris Lauri pointed out the so-called trick that this money was taken away. At the same time, industry representatives, entrepreneurs, have made clear in their letter those companies who are already ready for this, who have prepared and really are waiting for you to invest in order to make the Estonian industry more productive, which is perhaps one of the best ways to promote our economy and life. Perhaps I would ask you to support Amendment 13 in order to put that money back there. Some examples of the fact that we do not actually have a politically clear statement that Estonia is going to move towards carbon neutrality and that we are going to do the necessary energy transfer that is really ahead of us anyway. But the later we do this, the less we support the research and development that will help us in this, the more expensive it will be for us, and the less likely we will succeed in this. Next example: the same oil refinery in Eesti Energia. We are hearing today that this plan is not quite clear yet and that we have not received all the answers, but that money is yet foreseen. Further, reconstruction of apartment buildings and small houses, energy efficiency improvement. The energy consumption of buildings in Estonia accounts for about 50% of the energy consumption in the country, with an average of 40% in the European Union. It should therefore be a priority, as the state budget states. However, the funds are estimated to be about ten times less than the SEI report on Estonia's move towards climate neutrality. The development of train traffic as well. This is positive, but unfortunately things are not moving in this direction with Rail Baltic or are not moving as fast as they have been planned before. Surely this would also be one of the steps in the right direction. In addition to the physical environment, there is a spiritual environment. Teachers' salaries. We have proposed, on behalf of the Reform Party, an amendment to maintain the ratio of teachers' average salaries to the national average wage. Clearly, they are people close to our children who can influence their future with their daily work. Think, perhaps you'll find a way to support it! Also, these small-scale proposals for children on mental health issues: Amendments 12, 31, 32 and 33. Amendment 11, which would also guarantee equal opportunities for children whose mother tongue is non-Estonian. They are also part of Estonia's future. This structural minus is not important either, but there has already been a lot of talk about it here. So I hope that, at least with these small steps, by supporting these amendments, we can move a little more towards the future and in the future we can make better decisions that have a bearing on our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U341	Thank you. Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U342	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at the EKRE Group, of course, there are always and always budgetary choices made during each government. Just as sure as it is that it is going to get dark at night outside the window now, it is that these choices have not been pleasing to the opposition. Criticism has been a year and a year. These are the choices that the current government coalition has agreed and considered when considering options. The amendments certainly have worked hard, there are good ideas, but they are still confused with the things that the coalition wants to do, and there are many important things. I've talked about them here before. I am now mentioning the 7 million allocated to the increase in the payroll fund for staff in the field of internal security. The payroll fund is divided between police officers, rescuers, prison guards, customs officials, environmental inspectors and many other important agencies. I'm sure it's a necessary thing to do. The remuneration of cultural workers is actually rising, with 2.1 million additional euros being allocated to this area. The joint buildings of the Rescue Board in Pärnu and Sillamäe will also be completed in the coming years. The construction works currently take place in Tallinn, Nõmme and Lilleküla. Next year the construction of Tallinn Music and Ballet School begins. It is also important for our culture and language that it is agreed to bring together the National Library and the National Archives under the roof of the library, during which the National Library building on Tõnismäe will be thoroughly reconstructed. There is also an increase in the minimum wage for teachers, and the average wage for teachers is forecast to exceed EUR 1 500 next year. So the government is doing important things. Of course, the odds are limited. The opposition would like to share money in its own way, but on behalf of the EKRE Group, I still call for the budget to go forward in the form that the coalition has put together now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U343	Thank you. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U344	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I support Mr Pohlak's position on the increase in the salary of people in the field of internal security, which is undoubtedly necessary. But I will be very brief about the additional funding for R &amp; D and higher education. In fact, you could say one sentence and then get out of this chair, because it says everything. Today's doctoral students are 40% foreigners. This means that our young people no longer consider studying in doctoral studies attractive and forward-looking. The future salary is not enough, as the current state budget provides a maximum of 5% salary increase for a young professor with a doctorate. This is a very, very serious signal if we do not have any offspring in science. Another fact I want to draw your attention to: our leading university, my own mother university, the University of Tartu, is higher than it has ever been in the international rating table. This is 301. In five years the University of Tartu has risen to 160 places. At the same time, the financing of learning activities has increased by 20%. Understandably, this is not balanced by the rise in the rating table, which takes into account both science and teaching. I am using a good colleague here, the rural life is currently very popular in Estonia, the rector of the country university Mait Klaassen's yesterday's thinking about higher education and science: 'There is more and more money. " Our higher education and research need undoubted support from all of us, because only wisely can we become rich. I hope that everyone in this Chamber and everyone in their office will support the provision of additional funding for science and higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U345	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U346	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the opposition for its good and sensible proposals, not just for writing down proposals. I would like to point out that opposition parties have been in the government only recently, and all the good proposals you have made could have been implemented in previous years. There have always been objective and subjective reasons for not being able to do so. But I want to stress that from 2020 an operational budget will be introduced. This is part of the reform of the state, which will result in more effective and efficient implementation of the state's tasks, a higher quality of public service provision, a reduction in government expenditure and staffing, and more flexible and less bureaucratic organisation of government administration. More effective state governance requires the ability to make optimal use of available resources, which often also means implementing strategic objectives beyond the borders of ministries and organisations. In order to increase the efficiency of service provision, it is necessary to measure its cost, which in turn requires the linking of resources with operational information and better monitoring and evaluation of the outputs and results of activities. The implementation of the ABB concept will result in a system linking strategic and operational management levels and providing managers with the necessary financial and management information for decision-making, implementation, control and correction. As a result of the elimination of duplication of activities and the organisation of the cost structure, new development, investment and policy initiatives can be mobilised from existing resources. As a result of this change, we can move the subsequent budgetary debates from the question of how much money I get to the question of what can be done with this money. This will enable us, instead of base-based budgeting, to make budgeting on a zero base and to transform public services into the most beneficial and valuable for people. Let's look at next year's budget. After all, we have forecasted revenue for 2020 at EUR 11.8 billion and expenditure and investment at EUR 11.6 billion, of which EUR 1.05 billion will come from external support. The general government budget is in nominal balance and is moving towards structural balance. The structural deficit is 0.7% of GDP in 2020, 0.2% in 2021 and a structural balance should be achieved in 2022. At the same time, it should be seen that the government debt ratio is decreasing both in euro and in terms of the share of GDP. While the debt ratio is 8.8% of GDP this year, 8% will be forecast for next year and 7.6% for 2021. The tax burden remains below the EU average. The Fatherland guarantees a tax peace. It should be stressed that no new emphasis is placed on the word 'new' tax, and the tax burden will decrease in the coming years. This means that people have the opportunity to decide their own money and income. Estonia is protected by Isamaa. Defence expenditure remains at least 2% of GDP, plus allied reception costs of EUR 10.5 million, as well as additional defence investments of EUR 20 million. Third, the Fatherland is in Estonian. In the budget of the Ministry of Culture, we see 2 million euros in additional resources for learning the Estonian language for adults, plus 3 million euros for studying the Estonian language in Russian-speaking schools and kindergartens. It is recalled that on 16 January this year the Estonian language house was opened in Tallinn and on 1 October in Narva. An enterprise will be expanded to direct teachers in Estonian to kindergarten groups with Russian language. In 2020, these teachers will reach more than 150 kindergarten groups as well as the first classes of general education schools. Three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U347	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U348	On 1 April 2020, the average old-age pension will rise by EUR 45, with indexation and an extraordinary increase in pension. According to the current plan, the average old-age pension will be 528 euros next year. Health care funding: the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by nearly 140 million euros in 2020 and the total budget of the state budget is estimated at nearly 1.68 billion euros. Research funding will increase by EUR 16 million. The state budget has EUR 216 million to fund research, which represents 0.74% of GDP. Although the current draft does not provide for the transitional payments for farmers, this amount still amounts to EUR 5 million. When we talk about sport and top sport, next year, the Olympic year, the so-called Team Estonia has been allocated a total of EUR 3 million, with a budget of EUR 2 million. Municipal revenues will amount to over EUR 2.3 billion in 2020, which is nearly twice as much as in 2010, including an increase of 27% in municipal revenues over the last two years. In 2020, the local governments will receive 55 million euros more than they would have received without further increasing the local government's income base in 2018. An additional 10 million euros has been allocated to bring gravel roads under black cover, totalling 16 million euros in the state budget. Wage growth is also foreseen in the public sector. The Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice will share EUR 7 million between police officers, rescuers, prison guards, customs officers and environmental inspectors. The wage growth of cultural workers is 2.5%. The salary fund for cultural and sports workers is growing by 2.3 million. The minimum wage for teachers will increase from EUR 1250 to EUR 1315. There will continue to be an increase in the wages of health care workers, with EUR 50 million being channelled by the state to ensure a wage agreement. In municipalities, the average wage of kindergarten teachers is supported to match the minimum wage of school teachers to 15 million euros. This is one small part of what this coalition is trying to fix next year. There are certainly many things that could still be done, but there is just as much money as there is today, 11.8 billion, and it has been best tried to divide between different areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U349	Thank you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U350	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, My call is short. I should have done this sooner, but it took me a while to find my old files. First of all, many colleagues have concerns that the budget is difficult to understand. That's right! I remember the Auditor General Holm said a few months ago that every year, the budget is becoming more and more complicated, no one understands it. Officials have prepared it, and it is now our business, no matter who is in power, that officials write a budget such as in 1939 or 1940. I have it in my office. The money is, there is no where to go just all the lines are clearly visible. Whoever you want, get yourself this budget. But why am I here? Colleagues Ivari Padar, hello! You said recently, talking about top-up, that maybe your story is hypocritical. On top of that, I went to my office, and I remembered that there was an interesting story at the beginning of my envoy. I was sitting that way back then. At the time, the Centre Party proposed to restore the top-up. It was November 2015, four years ago. Then there was a vote. The Prime Minister was a Reform Partyman, the Fatherland was in government, and the government was in soccer. And then what happened? Before the vote, maybe I'll look at our biggest farmers, Ivar and Jaanus Marrand, the deceased, at least from this house, sneaking down to the bathroom quietly so they don't vote against. The vote in favour was not possible because the coalition at the time did not consider it necessary, and it seemed strange to vote against, so you should go to the bathroom. And now I ask you, dear Ivar, maybe your story is hypocritical. It's been four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U351	Thank you. Yeah, Ivar Padar, you're entitled to a reply because your name was mentioned. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U352	Whether I went to the bathroom or not, I really don't know how to comment. But it is clear that the top-up budget, which is expected to be discussed, was not agreed, but the top-up was agreed very clearly on the budget that was made during the first government of Jüri Ratas. It was done so that the first government of Jüri Ratas could come at all, it was a very clear position of the Social Democratic Party. And so it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U353	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more requests to speak, so the negotiations are closed. 33 amendments to the draft have been tabled and we will examine them together. Amendment 1, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U354	Thank you, Mr. Helir-Valdor Seeder. I ask that we vote on this fundamental amendment, which reduces the billion-dollar structural minus generated by the governments of Jüri Ratas by 200 million euros. But before we vote on this amendment, I ask for a ten-minute break on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U355	Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U356	Honourable Riigikogu, can we go to the vote now or do we go to the hall before the vote again? Let's get to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1 tabled by the Reform Party. The decision of the commission is to disregard the proposal. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 52 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2, tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U357	Thank you, good manager. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal. This proposal concerns the exemption from income tax on pensions, so that pensions are exempt from income tax at the level of the average old-age pension. Let us vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U358	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 2, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 delegates voted in favour of the proposal, against 55. The proposal was not supported. Proposal No 3 by Jüri Jaanson, Heidy Purga, Toomas Kivimägi, Hanno Pevkur, Andrus Seed, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Signe Kivi, Signe Riisalo and Ants Laaneots. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U359	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal, because it will significantly alleviate the tax burden on young parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U360	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the amendment... I'm sorry! Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U361	A procedural question. What can be done with proposals that are reasonable, but which the government has not taken into account in the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U362	The Riigikogu votes on the proposals. I shall put to the vote Amendment 3 tabled by... Shall I read the names? [[???Hääl saalist: 'Jaa!'???]] Jüri Jaanson, Heidy Purga, Toomas Kivimägi, Hanno Pevkur, Andrus Seed, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Signe Kivi, Signe Riisalo and Ants Laaneots. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 45 delegates in favour of the proposal, against 54. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4, tabled by Mr Sõerd. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U363	Thank you. This is one very important proposal, which involves raising the income support limit to 160 euros. The Reform Party Group is asking for this proposal to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U364	Let's vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 4 tabled by Mr Sõerd. The proposal of the Steering Committee is to disregard this proposal. Please take a stand and vote. 45 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 54 were against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U365	Thank you. This is now a truly forward-looking proposal, namely that it is made for increased funding for R &amp; D. Since everyone has signed this agreement, I assume that everyone can support it. I ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U366	Let's vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 5 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There are 46 comms in favour and 54 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6, tabled by Ms Raik, Mr Läänemets, Mr Pikhof, Ms Sikkut, Mr Ossinovski. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U367	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask for this amendment to be voted on. Before the vote on behalf of our group, I would like to ask everyone very much to consider supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U368	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Amendment 6, tabled by Mr Raik, Mr Läänemets, Mr Pikhof, Ms Sikkut and Mr Ossinovski. The recommendation of the lead committee is to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. Maris Lauri, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U369	I can see for several times that there is a finance minister walking around the hall. As far as I know, outsiders are not allowed to walk around the Chamber during the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U370	Thank you. You're right. The Minister of Finance has now left the hall. Amendment 6 was voted for by 43 parliamentarians and 54 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 7 tabled by Kalvi Tõd, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Evgeni Ossinovski and Ivari Padar. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U371	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment. This brings more money to our higher education and is primarily intended to raise the pay of teachers. A very important amendment, I would like to ask everyone to support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U372	Let's vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 7 tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Ivari Padar. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 42 delegates voted in favour and 54 against. The proposal was not supported. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to recall the beautiful custom that we have a silence in the Chamber during the vote. We will go to Amendment No 8, tabled by Kalvi Tuld, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar and Helmen Kütt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U373	Thank you. Regional colleges are, in our view, very important and, consequently, the Group of the Social Democratic Party is asking for this amendment to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U374	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment No 8, tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar and Helmen Kütt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 44 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and 53 were against. The proposal was not supported. Proposal No 9, presented by Kalvi Tõvi, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar and Helmen Küttt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U375	Thank you. In our opinion, any graduate graduating from primary school deserves the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia as a gift from the state. We therefore ask for this amendment to be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U376	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U377	Thank you. Until 2003, the initiator of the proposal had the opportunity to present its proposal, but this option has not been available for 16 years. On what basis is the presentation of the proposal taking place here? According to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, this possibility is no longer available today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U378	Yes, indeed, according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, it is no longer possible to present a proposal from this speaker, that is true. Unfortunately, I cannot silence the members of the Riigikogu if they propose to put the matter to the vote. [[Noise in the hall.]] At the request of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, we shall put Amendment 9 to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 9, tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivar Padar and Helmen Küttt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There are 22 members of the Riigikogu with 54 votes against and 5 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Is there a procedural question on Taavi Clothes? No, it's not. Then we will go to Amendment 10 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U379	Thank you. In order to ensure that the salaries of teachers as a ratio to the average wage in Estonia do not fall drastically next year, please vote on the following proposal!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U380	Thank you. I'll put it to the vote, but Kalvi Tough has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U381	It is not a question of asking for a four-minute break on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I will go tell Andrei Korobenik about the content of this amendment a little longer. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U382	Thank you. Would Andrei Korobenik like to make a further comment? Or a line?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U383	Four minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U384	The previous comment is in principle still valid. We have come to the conclusion that the Home and Working Procedures Act really does not allow the presentation of the proposal, but only the issue of the number. That's basically it. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U385	Yes! Andrei Korobeiinik is absolutely right. We looked up: the Home and Rules of Procedure Act does not allow the content of the amendment to be presented. That was possible until 2003, if I'm not mistaken. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U386	Good manager! Let me get this straight. Andrei Korobenik, who reads the Rules of Procedure like that, was just wrong about the Rules of Procedure? As far as I am aware, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for procedural remarks either. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U387	Yes, we are all wrong here today, including the President-in-Office, who gave us the opportunity to present this amendment in a few sentences. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U388	Thank you, Mr President. Well, it makes more sense for us to continue this restrained practice, not to start taking long breaks. 'Cause you can't stand it. They're about to take a break. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U389	Thank you. I actually agree, because in previous years too, the author of the amendment has been allowed, if he asks for the amendment to be put to the vote, to say a few sentences in this regard. If we started like this today, I think it would be quite nice for us to continue the same way, not to change it in half the sitting. I shall put to the vote Amendment 10 tabled by the Group of the Reform Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 44 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 10 and 53 against. The proposal was not supported. Proposal No 11 presented by the Estonian Reform Party Group. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U390	Thank you. The Reform Party Group is asking for an amendment that would allocate money to education in Estonian to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U391	Thank you. Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 11, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 11 was for 44 members of the Riigikogu and against 51. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 12 tabled by Ms Kersna, Mr Purga, Mr Kütt, Ms Sikkut and Ms Riisalo. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U392	Thank you. There is a great need for school psychologists in Estonia. The Group of the Reform Party is asking to vote on this amendment, which involves funding the school psychologist's professional year at the University of Tartu Institute of Psychology.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U393	Thank you. Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 12 tabled by Ms Kersna, Mr Purga, Mr Kütt, Ms Sikkut and Ms Riisalo. The Steering Committee has proposed not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. There are 42 members of the Riigikogu in favour of Amendment 12 and against 52. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 13 tabled by Mart Võrguship. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U394	Thank you. This proposal will allow companies to contribute to resource efficiency. As we know, the environment has, at the very least, been important to the government union. I would therefore like to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U395	Let us put this proposal to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 13 tabled by the Mart Võrguship. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 33 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 54 were against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 14, tabled by Kalvi Tõud, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar and Helmen Küttt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U396	Thank you. Culture is a part of our lives every day, and so do many sports. The money needed to raise the pay of cultural workers and coaches is the content of the following amendment. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask you to vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U397	We shall put the amendment to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 14 tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar and Helmen Küttt. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 53 were against. The proposal was not supported. Proposal No 15. This amendment was tabled by Mr Kalvi Tõud, Mr Saar, Mr Juske, Mr Raik, Mr Läänemets, Mr Pikhof, Mr Ossinovski, Mr Padar and Mr Küttt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U398	Thank you, Mr President. As the author of the proposal, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment, which increases transitional payments for farmers named Tarmo Tamme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U399	Let's vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 15 tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar and Helmen Küttt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 31 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and against 48. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 16, tabled by Mr Kruuse, Mr Purga, Mr Kivimägi, Mr Seed, Ms Kivi, Ms Riisalo and Mr Laaneots. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U400	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask for an amendment that would allocate money to food safety to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U401	Let us put this proposal to a vote. I put to the vote Amendment 16, tabled by Mr Kruuse, Mr Purga, Mr Kivimägi, Mr Seed, Ms Kivi, Ms Riisalo and Mr Laaneots. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and 53 were against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 17 tabled by Kalvi Tõd, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Ivari Padar and Helmen Küttt. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U402	Thank you. On behalf of our group, I ask you to vote on an amendment that will provide additional funding for the programme for the reconstruction of apartment buildings.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U403	Let's vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 17 tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Ivari Padar and Helmen Küttt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 53 against, with one abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18. The performers are Kalvi Tuld, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar and Helmen Küttt. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U404	Thank you. The Group of the Social Democratic Party is asking for the vote on this amendment, which will also take the Internet to the forest farm.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U405	Thank you. Let's vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 18 tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Evgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar and Helmen Kütt. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 52 voted against. The proposal was not supported. Proposal No 19, presented by Kalvi Tuld, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Evgeni Ossinovski and Helmen Küttt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U406	Thank you. The rental housing programme urgently needs extra money, and the Social Democratic Party Group is therefore asking for this amendment to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U407	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 19, tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski and Helmen Kütt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 11 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment and 69 against, with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 20. Indrek Saar, Jaak Juske, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar, Helmen Küttt and Kalvi Tõvi have presented it. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U408	Thank you. On behalf of our group, I would like to vote on this amendment. You can look at its contents on paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U409	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 20 tabled by Mr Saar, Mr Juske, Mr Raik, Mr Läänemets, Ms Sikkut, Mr Ossinovski, Ms Padar, Mr Kütt and Mr Kalvi Kõrva. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 54 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 21 tabled by Mr Sõerd. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U410	Thank you. Well, that's a very good suggestion again! Since the Riga Riga roundabout in Tartu is currently the most road accidents, the essence of this proposal is that we can start work on the roundabout there as soon as next year. So, on behalf of the Reform Party, I ask for this proposal to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U411	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 21 tabled by Mr Sõerd. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 53 voted against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 22, tabled by Aivar Sõerd. The position of the Steering Committee is not to be taken into account. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U412	Thank you. The Government of the Republic promised us 2+2 roads, but they didn't make it into the budget. In order to help, we decided to make such a proposal, or rather, Aivar Sõerd decided to make such a proposal. Now we are asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U413	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 22 tabled by Mr Sõerd. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 53 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 23 tabled by Mr Purga, Mr Michal, Mr Rõivas, Mr Kivimägi and Mr Seed. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U414	Thank you. In order to be able to build the Tartu highway for four lines, money must be allocated. This is an amendment to this. We ask for support and vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U415	Let's vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 23 tabled by Mr Purga, Mr Michal, Mr Rõivas, Mr Kivimägi and Mr Seed. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. Does Evgeny Ossinovski have a procedural question? No, it's not. 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 56 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Proposal No 24, tabled by Urmas Kruuse, Hanno Pevkur, Signe Kivi and Ants Laaneots. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to vote. I'm sorry, let it go! Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U416	Thank you. Well, the suggestion is exactly the opposite. This amendment, too, concerns the circle of Tartu Riga and the improvement of the very dangerous traffic situation there. The Reform Party Group calls for this proposal to be supported and voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U417	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 24 tabled by Mr Kruuse, Mr Pevkur, Mr Kivi and Mr Laaneots. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and against 51. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 25 tabled by Mr Sõerd. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U418	Thank you. This proposal will increase the country's stabilisation reserve. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U419	Let's vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 25 tabled by Mr Sõerd. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment and 52 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 26 tabled by Kalvi Tõud, Indrek Saar, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar and Helmen Küttt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U420	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this particularly necessary amendment, which will increase the funding for the settlement programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U421	Let's vote. I shall put to the vote the amendments tabled by Kalvi Tõvi, Indrek Saar, Katri Raik, Lauri Läänemets, Heljo Pikhof, Riina Sikkut, Evgeni Ossinovski, Ivari Padar and Helmen Küttt. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 35 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 52 against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 27 tabled by the Social Democratic Party Group. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U422	Our group is asking for the vote on this amendment, which guarantees a free home for all those in need. I hope we all support this, because it was in our election programme for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U423	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 27 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 10 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal and 60 against. The proposal was not supported. Next, Amendment 28, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U424	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, please vote on this amendment, which will allow investment in IT technology to be increased, so that the digital state of Estonia continues to flourish!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U425	Thank you. Let's vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 28 tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and opposed 54 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 29, tabled by Heidy Purga, Kristen Michal, Taavi Rõivas, Urmas Kruuse, Toomas Kivimägi, Hanno Pevkur, Andrus Seed, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Signe Kivi and Signe Riisalo. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U426	Thank you, good Chairman. As according to Eurostat data, Estonia is the country with the highest risk of pensioner poverty in Europe and our current income tax system is still doing a disservice to the pension increase, the content of this proposal is doubling the individual pensioner's allowance. The Reform Party Group is asking for both vote and support.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U427	Thank you. Let's put it to a vote. Does Andrei Korobenik want...? No, I don't. Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 29 tabled by Mr Purga, Mr Michal, Mr Rõivas, Mr Kruuse, Mr Kivimägi, Mr Pevkur, Mr Seed, Mr Pentus-Rosimannus, Ms Kivi and Ms Riisalo. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 34 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, 54 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 30 tabled by Vilja Toomas, Kalle Laane, Andrus Seed and Signe Riisalo. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U428	Thank you, good manager. This proposal would help to reward palliative care support specialists and create centres offering palliative care services throughout Estonia. I am asking for this motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U429	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 30 tabled by Mr Toomas, Mr Laane, Mr Seeme and Ms Riisalo. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and opposed 53 members of the Riigikogu. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 31, tabled by Ms Kersna, Mr Purga, Mr Kütt, Ms Sikkut and Ms Riisalo. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U430	Thank you. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment concerning the funding of the professional year of psychologists.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U431	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 31 tabled by Ms Kersna, Ms Purga, Mr Kütt, Ms Sikkut and Ms Riisalo. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and against 52. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 32, tabled by Ms Kersna, Mr Purga, Mr Kütt, Ms Sikkut and Ms Riisalo. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U432	Thank you. Child helpline services allow all people to report a child in need and also allow this information to reach professionals. The purpose of this amendment is to continue the provision of children's helpline services. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I ask for this proposal to be voted and supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U433	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 32 tabled by Ms Kersna, Mr Purga, Mr Kütt, Ms Sikkut and Ms Riisalo. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal and 53 were against. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 33, tabled by Ms Kersna, Mr Purga, Mr Kütt, Ms Sikkut and Ms Riisalo. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U434	Thank you, good manager. I would point out that we have come to the last amendment and so far the opposition has voted down exactly 32 of the 32 amendments. It is now possible for the coalition ambassadors to show that they are still willing to support some of the opposition's proposals. The scope of this amendment is EUR 127000, which, I believe, is feasible for the country. This concerns a prevention programme that supports the mental health of young people. So I ask you to vote on it, and I also call for at least one opposition proposal to be supported when there was no more strength today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U435	Let's put it to a vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 33, tabled by Ms Kersna, Mr Purga, Mr Kütt, Ms Sikkut and Ms Riisalo. The Governing Commission's proposal is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and... Quiet, please! There were 50 members of the Riigikogu and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have examined all 33 amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 82. Second reading is complete. [[Noise in the hall.]] Ah, it has not yet been completed, because two groups of the Riigikogu have proposed that the reading of the draft be discontinued. I will combine these proposals. The Estonian Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group have proposed to interrupt the second reading of the draft State Budget Act of 2020. I shall put this proposal to the vote, but before the séance. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft National Budget 2020 Act 82. Please take a stand and vote. 44 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal for interruption and 54 against. The proposal was not supported. Let's call it a second reading. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 27 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U436	Now we can move on to today's item No 5, which is the second reading of § 61 of the Act on Supplementation to State Pension Insurance, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Möldri, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U437	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft Act supplementing § 61 of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic in preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 4 November. The substance of the draft is, in short, that we want to increase pensions by an additional EUR 7 from 1 April 2020 after indexation. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs also attended the meeting. The first reading of the draft was in the large hall on 15 October. The deadline for amendments was 29 October. An amendment was tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and its opinion on the draft was also expressed by the Association of Estonian Pensioners. The Association of Associations of Estonian Pensioners approves the draft law initiated by the Government of the Republic. The aim of the amendment of the Estonian Reform Party is to make Estonia's average old-age pension exempt from income tax and also to change the title of the bill by adding an amendment to the Income Tax Act. In the debate that took place in the Commission, we focused in particular on this amendment. Members of the Commission were interested in the number of pensioners who have to pay income tax on their pensions after the implementation of this law. In 2020, 184000 pensioners' pensions are expected to be taxed, i.e. 55% of all pensioners. The total pension or pension and salary is expected to exceed EUR 6000 per year for 204700 pensioners, i.e. 61% of all pensioners. There were also questions about history: how old age pensions have been taxed in Estonia in general. The representative of the Ministry announced that it has been tried to keep this line so that the Estonian average pension would be tax-free. The current government coalition is also working on this, but the budgetary possibilities set their limits. In general, pensions have been taxed in very different ways since Estonia regained independence. It was also asked whether the coalition considered two alternatives: either to make the average pension exempt or to increase the pension exceptionally by EUR 7? The amount of money needed could be more or less in the same order of magnitude. In this regard, the representative of the Ministry of Finance noted that this had been a political choice. Two alternatives have indeed been considered: either an additional EUR 70 tax revenue for pensioners or an extraordinary EUR 7 pension increase. The additional tax-free income of EUR 50 would have an impact, in particular, on pensioners whose pension is more than EUR 500, but the current proposal of the Government of the Republic to raise the basic pension by EUR 7 affects primarily those whose pension is less than EUR 500. The Commission proposed to treat these amendments as a single package. There was a vote on the amendment in the committee, and the commission decided not to take it into account. In addition, by consensus, the following decisions were taken: to put the draft on the agenda of today's plenary session, to propose that the second reading be closed, to propose that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed, and then to hold a final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U438	Thank you very much, Mr Chairman of the Commission. You have questions. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U439	Thank you, good waitress. You said that the government association would support the fact that the average old-age pension would be exempt from income tax, and you also said that the government would work to this end. Well, I'll see how I look, but I can't see the job. Although the government has even sent letters to Parliament saying that it has been decided that the average pension should be exempt from income tax, in practice this is not the case and that the proposal to continue making the average pension tax-free was voted against by all members of the government union as one man in the Committee on Social Affairs. How do you explain that words and actions are once again diametrically conflicting in a very important matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U440	As I said, indeed, both members of the government coalition and, I imagine, all the other members of the Riigikogu who support this bill in essence in this Chamber admit that the average old-age pension could and should be tax-free. But as I said, and as the representative of the Ministry of Finance pointed out, there are budgetary limits. We have to make choices based on that. This time, the Government of the Republic has specifically proposed an increase of 7 euros in the base pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U441	Thank you very much. Erkki Keldo's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U442	Good waitress! You have rightly pointed out that this is a matter of priorities. We are talking today about an extraordinary EUR 7 pension increase, but we actually know that because of income tax, EUR 5.6 will be lost, which means that only EUR 1.4 will be a real increase. If a person receives a pension slightly above the average of 540 euros, this means that this pensioner earning a little above the average will have to pay back 8 euros to the state, which is even more than an extraordinary increase of the euro. This means that this pensioner does not even reap the benefits of law-based indexation. The question is: is this a government priority? Do the government think that pensioners are people who need to be charged more income tax to cover current expenditure?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U443	Thank you. As far as the indexation of pensions is concerned, the approach is still quite different. Today we are talking about the increase in the base of pensions. Like I said, it's a question of options. The Government of the Republic has decided to come up with a draft, which increases the basic part of pensions in particular and affects precisely those people whose average pension is less than EUR 500.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U444	Thank you. Javier in clothing, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U445	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You were talking about those coalition ambassadors who were inside supporting the proposal of the Reform Party. My recommendation to them can only be that the innermost support can be expressed very easily by pressing the green button. This is how this support goes out of the way, and many pensioners will certainly welcome it. However, we in the Commission also talked about the fact that if the situation that existed until 2016 was restored when all pensioners, even working pensioners, had at least an average pension free of tax, the Minister of Social Affairs estimates that it would cost more than EUR 100 million. Am I right to understand that over the last two governments, more than EUR 100 million has been taken from pensioners' pockets as taxes compared to the system in force until the end of 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U446	Thank you. With regard to the assessment carried out by the Ministry of Finance's official and your proposal and the cost of this amendment, it is indeed estimated that it will cost approximately EUR 100 million. But if they say that the money is taken from the pensioners' pockets, that is not the case. Pensioners have also received part of the pension because the income tax-free minimum has been raised to 500 euros. And it has been won, above all, by those people who have received a low pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U447	Thank you very much. Andres Sutt, question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U448	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm glad to hear the government is working. I have this question: when could the outcome of this work be seen, and as chairman of the committee, did you also present our proposal to the Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations? Did you ask for their opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U449	Thank you. The government is working hard every day, and we can hear the results of this work in this hall, but also read the newspaper columns. However, as regards the involvement of the Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations in the procedure of this draft, they sent their written assessment of the draft. Unfortunately, Mr Ergma failed to attend this committee meeting. If Mr Ergma has any further wish to comment on this bill, we are kindly prepared to hear him out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U450	Thank you. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U451	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! I have a very simple and logical question. If the government strongly supports, as you say to us here, the exemption of average pension income tax, then why cannot the Commission and the government coalition support the Reform Party's proposal with the clause that it will apply for the next year of the year or so, or the associated term? If you support it in principle, will you not be able to support its entry into force from 1 January or 1 April next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U452	Thank you. As I have already said: it will certainly be strongly on the table in the budget debates for the next few years and in the discussions on the country's budgetary strategy. If the Government of the Republic and coalition parties jointly support it, and if the budget also allows the average pension to be kept tax-free, we will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U453	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U454	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! It seems to me that you went a little far in answering Taavi's garment. This is in the sense that the pension was previously an income tax-free average pension and consequently the persons receiving the lower pension did not have to pay income tax. Thus, the logic that people who have received a lower pension from the increase in the tax-free minimum won very little. But the choice that you have taken 100 million euros out of pensioners' pockets in three years has been your choice, the Centre Party. And working pensioners can be hit the most because of this, you punish those active elderly people who work. But my question is about something else. According to what logic did you decide to go to an extraordinary pension rise of EUR 7 in your words, in fact EUR 1.40 instead of returning to the average pension income tax exemption that lasted until 2016?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U455	Thank you. Once again, when we talk about an extraordinary pension rise, I would still say that it is 7 euros. I'll stick to that. However, as regards the fact that if these two weights were "choice on the table," as I said, the Government of the Republic made a decision based on the fact that an increase of 7 euros in the base would affect, above all, those pensioners who receive a pension of less than 500 euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U456	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U457	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Let's get this straight anyway! Please talk to the end of this: how is it possible that if the average pension under the old regime was not taxable on income tax and then a new minimum tax system with a exponentially decreasing tax came in, how did the beneficiaries of the average pension win? And this 100 million additional tax revenues, thanks to the transition to the new tax system, if this money was not taken from pensioners, from whom was the 100 million tax revenues collected?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U458	Thank you. As far as taxes and their collection are concerned, I am absolutely certain that there are people in this Chamber who are more competent in this area than I am. And there are certainly more competent committees who have discussed these issues. But I assure you that, as far as tax collection is concerned and at all this issue is concerned, the Committee on Social Affairs did not address it at its meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U459	Hanno Pevkur, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U460	Thank you. Chairman of the good committee and also representative of the Centre Party! I will give you the opportunity to tell the people of Estonia, and it will also be written in a verbatim report, that the Central Party government has taken 100 million away from pensioners in three years, and now gives 20 million back 7 euros, which in turn takes away 2/3. You have a chance to confirm it, and don't start shitting me! In fact, it's 100 million you took, 20 million you give, and 15 of that 20 you take back.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U461	Thank you. I will then clarify once again, I am still talking today about raising the basic pension by 7 euros. It's in the bill we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U462	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U463	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As mentioned here, the Association of Estonian Pensioners Associations has also expressed their views on this draft and they have generally approved it. However, this opinion points out that, despite the modest nature of the amendment, this pension increase compensates for part of the additional income tax resulting from the increase in the average pension. So the pension increase goes on income tax. Can you judge, as a young person, whether it is a diplomatic, benevolent, or ironic sentence on their part?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U464	Thank you. You can read everything in this text, but I would not like to appreciate it because Mr Ergma himself did not participate in the debate in our committee. I think if he had been there, he could have opened up the contents of that letter more. But I think that the first of the three sentences of their letter is perhaps what is most important for the debate on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U465	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U466	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Did the Commission also mention that the loss of the average pension exemption was very much linked to the information provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs that the IT solution could not be made before 2021? Was it mentioned in the Commission that, in this context, instead of tax exemption, there would be a 7-euro pension increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U467	Thank you. With regard to the various IT solutions, we did not discuss this issue in the Commission. We didn't talk about that. However, as a representative of the Government of the Republic, an official of the Ministry of Finance indicated that this was two options. We did not dissect the process that led to one or the other party becoming a choice, but if so, it could certainly be one weight language.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U468	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U469	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I think this situation is quite ironic. In a situation where Estonian pensioners are the lowest-income pensioners in the European Union, where a very large proportion of pensioners are actually struggling to cope with difficulties, the government boasts that it will raise the base by 7 euros while taking most of it back in the form of income tax. How does the government really explain this message to pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U470	Thank you. As I said, the basic part of pensions has not been raised very closely by our governments. Your party has also been responsible in the Government of the Republic. There have been moments when there was a way to do this, but there hasn't always been a chance. It is precisely the budgetary possibilities that have been proposed by the borders, and this also applies to this year and to the following years. But as I said, the coalition will certainly work to ensure that the average old-age pension is tax-free.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U471	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U472	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Commission. The Ministry of Social Affairs has carried out a study on how older people cope economically and how much poverty they actually have. And this data makes it very clear that Estonia is taking on the role of a red lamp in Europe. The poverty of our elderly is one of the largest in Europe and, consequently, one of the smallest in Europe. Obviously, you have also participated in the budget negotiations. Was this really a problem that was not taken into account? After all, this study also highlights the need for an increase in the pension of at least EUR 70 to 80.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U473	Thank you. I agree with you that, yes, as far as this study and statistics are concerned, nothing can be denied. The statistics are like this, it's all true. However, when it comes to how this 7-euro extraordinary pension increase will help, I would point out once again that it will help, above all, those people who receive a pension of less than 500 euros. This affects them the most, and that is what we have taken into account when we put forward a proposal for another matter, which was proposed by the Commission as an alternative, so that an average pension could be exempted from income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U474	Heljo Pikhof, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U475	Thank you. You are certainly aware of how many older people live in relative poverty: nearly 50% of old-age pensioners. If the pension is exceptionally increased by 7 euros, how can these elderly people wait to get out of relative poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U476	Thank you. As I have said to some previous speakers, your party has also had the opportunity to bear the responsibility of the government. This particularly concerns the sectors we are talking about in this Chamber, including the elderly. I say again: of course, this EUR 7 is not a magic wand, but it is at least the first step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U477	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U478	It is clear that the poverty of the elderly has been high in Estonia for years and still is. We all know that. Why do you think this issue is now being raised by the party that had the opportunity to raise pensions for years? Why does this question arise right now, when we exceptionally raise our pension after 12 years? At the same time, we know all the double pension promises that the Reform Party once shared. However, it has been frozen for years and the index has been raised less than the formula provides. What conclusions can you draw from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U479	Thank you. It's not like I can see inside political parties and political groups. I don't know what's behind these proposals. The noble desire to make the lives of the people of Estonia better is probably behind these proposals, but the Government of the Republic has a certain responsibility. It must look first and foremost at the possibilities of the budget. And I believe that once this day arrives, not in the coming years, but perhaps someday, when these people will have the opportunity to take decisions again, we will see whether or not they confirm their current words by doing what they do.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U480	Well, there's no more questions for the waitress. Thank you, waitress. Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations. There is one wish to participate in the negotiations: Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Everyone may speak on behalf of a political group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U481	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The electorate was asked for a mandate for an extraordinary increase in pensions by almost all the political parties who have now reached Parliament. Moreover, this has been the basic promise of the Prime Minister's Party. I would remind you that the Reform Party, with the support of economic growth, wanted to raise the old-age pension by 200 euros over four years, which according to the Ministry of Finance means an extraordinary increase of approximately 100 euros. The Centre Party promised to raise the average old-age pension in 2020 exceptionally, with indexation of EUR 100 instead of EUR 7. Only an increase in extraordinary pensions will ensure an average old-age pension of EUR 700 by 2023, as they have said. The Social Democrats asked for support for pension increases in line with wage and price increases and for the plan to raise our average pension to 700 euros per month. EKRE promised to double the average old-age pension over the next four years, i.e. approximately EUR 800. In order to give momentum to fulfilling the promises, the Social Democrats submitted a draft to the Riigikogu procedure, which would increase the basic part of the pension, which is the same for all pensioners, exceptionally by EUR 100 after the indexation of 1 April 2020. This amendment would significantly reduce the number of elderly people living in distress. Today, the draft has passed at first reading in the Committee on Social Affairs, but unfortunately, due to the lack of political will, no further has been achieved. However, what do the results of this analysis by the Ministry of Social Affairs reveal? They show that, in order for the average pension to exceed the limit of relative poverty in 2020, pensions must be increased exceptionally by at least EUR 80. This 7 euro emergency pension increase will not lead to anyone out of poverty, reducing the relative poverty rate of the population aged 65 and over by just 0.6%. After all, the size of the pension affects the livelihood of a very large number of more than 300000 people. However, from the point of view of the functioning of the state, it is the lapse of pension that the government must definitely redeem from a large number of naked bills. The population is ageing, the problems of the elderly pile up quickly. According to Eurostat, Estonia has been the first prize in the European Union for many years in terms of the proportion of older people living at risk of poverty. The results of various studies suggest that the relative poverty of older people is caused by both low incomes and unequal distribution of incomes in society. When we look at the elderly, i.e. over 65, living alone, we see that the risk of poverty is particularly high among women, but also among men: over 80%. The European Commission has repeatedly raised the issue of pension inadequacy in its annual report by Estonia. If we look at our position in comparison with the European Union, in recent years the relative poverty of older people has increased and has been the largest in the European Union. In addition, Estonia's population is characterised by rapid ageing. Let us look at some of the studies carried out in OECD countries. When people are asked what they are most afraid of at retirement age, 55-77-year-olds are... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U482	Thank you very much. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U483	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As this is a second reading of the draft, it is justified to focus the focus on the amendments and, in this case, on the only amendment tabled by the Reform Party, the principle that we will continue to keep the average old-age pension exempt in the future. We have heard today from the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee that many of the representatives of the government union support this proposal in their own right. We heard before the elections, which has not been in fear for a long time; only half a year; how the Centre Party, in a specific way, said that one of their most important promises was that they would keep an average pension free of income tax. I can only conclude one thing from this: the ambassadors of the Centre Party will have the only chance today in this matter before their voters, and they will probably have quite a lot of retired voters to retain their face if they support the Reform Party's amendment. Otherwise, and I am not afraid to say this directly from here, they have clearly deceived their constituents. And I do not recommend cheating on people of retirement age because they may not take it lightly. Since I was in the Committee on Social Affairs to replace my colleague, I myself was able to participate in this discussion. I was interested to hear that Minister for Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik, who defended the government's position, said that if we wanted to restore the situation that existed until the end of 2016, where, regardless of whether the pensioner is working or not, his pension would be tax-free in the amount of the average old-age pension, this would cost the state more than EUR 100 million. So we can conclude that the two successive governments managed by Jüri Ratas have wanted to tax pensioners with a tax burden of more than 100 million then from the end of 2016. I dare say that this is probably the society group that has gained the most brutal tax burden in Estonia over the last three years. Does that make any sense? No, it's not. Is this the tax debate that Jüri Ratas called us to stop? You don't know. But if this is the debate, we don't need this debate. The Estonian state certainly does not need such tax rulings. So once again: ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful if you support this amendment. And all those who made promises in the elections, in particular, concerning the Centre Party, have no choice but to support the Reform Party's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U484	Thank you very much. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. We are in the process of the second reading of § 61 of the Supplementary Act 79 of the State Pension Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. However, one amendment has also been tabled, and that is what we must vote on. Mr Mölder would like a word.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U485	Thank you. I'd rather have a procedural remark. I just wanted to make a comment to the previous speaker that, when I look at the minutes of the Social Affairs Committee, I do not see that the Socialist Minister, Mr Kiik, has been present at the debate on this point at this sitting. At the same time, he quoted that he had said such sentences in the Commission. I don't know, I guess we can check it out later.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U486	It's a piece of information. Is there anything else that Taavi would like to say in his garment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U487	Thank you. As we have a debate on the amendments, I thought that I would put this amendment to the vote now. But actually we can really check: I was there at the committee meeting and Tanel Kiik was there for the draft second reading debate. However, when we come to the vote on the amendments, I would like to ask that they be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U488	I have a feeling that we will get to the vote on the amendment. One amendment has been tabled and I understand that the Reform Party will not accept that it will not be voted on. I shall therefore put this amendment to the vote. This concerns the draft Act on Supplementation to § 61 of the State Pension Insurance Act 79. Attention! I invite all my colleagues to this hall! All right, ladies and gentlemen. I am voting on the amendment of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party on the draft Act supplementing § 61 of the State Pension Insurance Act. Please take a stand and vote. 40 honourable members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 52 members of the same honourable Riigikogu opposed, 8 members of the Riigikogu did not participate. The amendment was not supported. The second reading of bill 79 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U489	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U490	... a healthy 94% responded that the main fear is whether they survive economically in their old age. If we look at how much we have increased in recent years, we will see that 3.4% a year as a whole. Last year was the highest and fastest price increase in the euro area in Estonia. This was most affected by the increase in domestic costs: electricity, heat and gas prices increased. Good fellows! Let us not forget, then, that our people must also have a decent life in their old age. The pension system must take into account that dignified ageing, which also allows active action, is not simply an issue addressed in the strategy papers. It's people's hope and hope. Let us safeguard our parents and grandparents, and let us not deceive their expectations and hopes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U491	Let's move on to the agenda. The following is such an important point as approving the Riigikogu's 'Criminal Policy Fundamentals 2030' decision submitted by the Government of the Republic, Bill 52. Its first reading should begin now. Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis, please waitress. Raivo Aegi or Raivo Aja, how's that? Aegis, got it! Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U492	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! A name correction has been made, so let's start with the bill. The Government of the Republic has indeed presented to you the basic principles of criminal policy until 2030, prepared by the Ministry of Justice, together with its good partners. I'll start by telling you what's...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U493	Mr. Secretary, a little break in between. I'm sure every manager has his own kinks, but I'm terribly upset when you guys live in this hall talking about issues that have nothing to do with today's presentation. Anyone who really wants to talk could go out and talk in the hallway. As legendary John Bercow said, every waitress is right to be heard. So let's keep going. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U494	Thank you. To begin with, I would like to talk at all about what these fundamental principles of criminal policy are all about. The need will be clear to everyone if we open any newspaper on any day. Not a day goes by when society does not talk about criminal policy, whether it is the length of criminal proceedings, the independence of the prosecutor's office, the termination of some proceedings, the release of someone, domestic violence, gangs of young people or something else. The Riigikogu approved the first fundamentals of criminal policy in 2003. This was one of the first development documents adopted by the Riigikogu, where political parties agreed on priorities when crossing party borders, which have been caught for 16 years. Writer Hainsalu, one of the restorers of our independence, has said that if there are more needs in life than there are opportunities, obligations more than can be done, fate seems unjust until it comes to realize that all chance attracts a person, chooses the tasks to be solved. This idea also applies more broadly to the state. As a country, too, we must make choices. I dare say that both the reform of the special schools, which transformed the existing penal institutions into educational institutions showing the direction of children, and the systematic action against school bullying began with developments in criminal policy. Of course, the Ministry of Education and Research, the School Free of Temptation and the hearty teachers and the good parents whose work we see the fruits of it must be acknowledged. The Riigikogu defined this problem as a priority in 2011. The same can be said of domestic violence. Let's look at the length of the procedure in juvenile matters. We know how important it is to react properly and quickly to the actions of minors. This thinking, too, emerged from the fundamentals of criminal policy. The number of offences committed by minors has decreased by three times, to about a thousand per year. Nearly two thirds of juvenile delinquency will be resolved in less than three months. And what is especially important: we are now taking a different view of children and young people. We do not tend to threaten and punish them first, but to determine what is best for them. It usually means working hard with a young person and his family. We have also developed a support service for those released from prison. Something like this did not exist in 2011, but now we are hoping for more and more benefits in reducing repeat crimes. I will give these examples because it would be obvious how important it is to set priorities in the Riigikogu. It's the only way that what we do has an effect. And it is equally important that the Riigikogu constantly reminds the government of these priorities and asks how the achievement of the objectives is progressing. It is up to the government to ensure that priorities are not ignored for lack of money. Thus, the fundamentals of criminal policy are needed in order for the state to act in a consistent and smart manner in preventing offences and to focus on the most important, because there is not enough resources and resources for everything. In a sense, the level of crime in Estonia has returned to normal. The situation is not comparable to the chaos of the 1990s, during which one person was killed every day. This is not even comparable to 16 years ago when Estonia approved accession to the European Union in a referendum. Since then, crime has been halved, so now we are registering some 27,000 crimes a year. Still, we're doing 40-to-50 killings a year. This puts us among the last ones in the European Union. We still have the anxiety that forces us to grab a knife in a vodka anger. And although the number of prisoners in Estonian prisons has almost doubled, there are still nearly 2,500 small towns. With this, too, we have written at the end of the European ranking. Fortunately, fewer and fewer people are victims of crime than twice as many as eight years ago. The proportion of people who feel safe has tripled, and only 15% of people feel unsafe around home after dark. But although 4/5 of the Estonian people feel safe, the country's most important task should remain to provide our people with security, freedom, openness, human focus. So what is the target we need to reach by 2030? More broadly, we have three problems in criminal policy and, consequently, we also offer three priorities. First priority: Estonian criminal justice system is effective, independent, human-centred and victim-friendly. This means that the system turns its face more towards a person. In the legal system, a person has the opportunity to communicate with a person, not with a system. And the offender must not only feel the unmistakable consequence of the machine, but first of all he must make amends to the victim, do everything to make up for the misdemeanor, including apologies. Money taken from offenders must reach the victims of crimes. Let the procedure be quick, it must not exceed a reasonable time, and also digital, without excessive bureaucracy. And the background and needs of each individual offender must be taken into account. This will lead to an effective procedure. Priority two: children and young people fall into the field of view of the criminal justice system in exceptional cases and young offenders are treated in the light of their needs. This means a joint effort with the family, municipality, education, culture, sport and social system, so that young people do not come to the criminal system. If these efforts at home and at school and through sport and city planning do not produce results, then everything will be done in our system so that it is not a prison that young people end up in, so that we have alternatives that are not yet available. Priority 3: Crime, including its reversibility, is low, the policy of punishment is effective. This means that addicts and mentally ill offenders receive treatment and support. At present, it is not being given enough, which is why these people make up the majority of repeat criminals. And in our form, in European prisons, the point is to direct the riders to do justice in society. Since prison rules make society reflect, it is normal for prisoners to work, participate in programmes, acquire education, etc. Overall, the goal is that there will be fewer violence and offenders in Estonia in 2030, the offence procedure will be effective and victim-friendly, and children and young people will rarely enter the criminal justice system. Good members of the Riigikogu! Finally, I would like to draw attention to a small but important nuance. The government reports to the Riigikogu every year on the implementation of the fundamental principles of criminal policy, where necessary with the involvement of the state's attorney general and the ministers involved in the subject. Please take this opportunity to ask questions to all concerned. We'd be happy to answer them. For you remember, security for the Estonian people is the most important task of the state. Criminal policy, along with many other national policies, serves security. We will keep what we have been able to build so far, focus on young people, a procedure that cares for victims and is effective, and give the opportunity to those offenders who can be redesigned! Thank you for your attention and I would like to have a meaningful and cost-effective debate in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U495	Thank you very much, Minister. There are questions for you, as you might have imagined. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U496	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is very sympathetic for me that you spoke of young people and of preventing them from going on a possible criminal path. We have just finished the second reading of the draft state budget, where an amendment was tabled so that next year, too, the research-based prevention programme VEPA, aimed at developing children's behavioural skills, could be continued. Studies show that the risk behaviour and hyperactivity of children will be reduced by the use of this programme. This is obviously also a preventive measure to get on the road to crime. This amendment was voted down. And my question is: as your Minister for Justice, do you think that EUR 127000 per year could be the amount that we decide to invest in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U497	Thank you, good questioner! I am also thinking of the structural resources allocated to the new European Union budget period, namely to fund youth programmes, certainly in the budget, particularly in view of the future. As we know, we also have the so-called Norwegian programme, which is backed by Norwegian money. There are quite considerable amounts of money that are intended to be used to shape criminal policy, including to deal with young people, to prevent young people from entering the criminal chain.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U498	Hanno Pevkur, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U499	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I will read the explanatory statement in addition to the decision. This explanatory statement is certainly seen as even more important than the declarative points of the decision. The decision is relatively laconic. However, the explanatory memorandum contains the following sentences: 'The independence of the criminal justice system will continue to come (I stress here: continue. To maintain and ensure the transparency and independence of the rules governing the appointment and recruitment of prosecutors and judges. ' And it has also been said here that Estonia has a similar exemplary position in terms of legal certainty indicators that measure the independence of the judiciary, the separation of powers and the independence of the criminal justice system. And here's my question. Did your coalition partner, EKRE, fully approve this draft while in government, or did they try to influence you politically to change it? It is clear here that the Estonian criminal justice system is independent and not politically influenced.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U500	Yes, the coalition unanimously approved it and decided to send it to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U501	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U502	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! For me, it was very nice of you to say that the Riigikogu should set these great goals, formulate values and keep an eye on whether the government is moving in the right direction. I will then ask whether you believe that the Riigikogu should play a central role in setting the strategic direction of the state, so that strategic planning of the state is not reduced simply to determining the priorities of the government and implementing the coalition agreement. Are you prepared to stand in the government for the Riigikogu to play an important role in setting the strategic direction of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U503	Thank you for your question. That's the right question. Yeah, I'm willing to stand up for it, and I've stood up for it too. When we had a discussion about the system of new strategic development plans, about how this system should look in the future, I did identify that the Riigikogu must retain its role. And I meant precisely those fundamentals of the same policies. These are, in fact, the only strategy papers left by the Riigikogu. Personally, I very much appreciate that the Riigikogu sets the priorities for such a strategy. Of course, they will be followed by development plans, action plans, all other sub-documents and programmes, but its overall framework should really be established by the Riigikogu, where the representation of the people is the widest.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U504	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U505	Dear waitress, You have recently quite strongly criticised the early release of traitor Simm and mentioned some other categories of prisoners that do not deserve early release. How will this position be applied in such a way as to make it work? It would be very regrettable if the man who caused the country for several tens of million dollars would soon come out of Tartu prison and start sharing interviews and memoirs on the left and right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U506	Thank you for your question. The question is extremely practical and really justified. I, too, was very and very disturbed when news came that a trial had taken place to discuss the early release of Herman Simm. Now the court will deal with the decision, its formalisation should be completed at the beginning of December and the decision will come to the public. Not until a year ago, quite a sharp and lively debate broke out when the officials of the Tartu Prison assessed Herman Simm's behaviour as so good or satisfactory that he was decided to transfer to the opening prison, the so-called lighter regime. Then Urmas Reinsalu, then Minister of Justice, used his right very resolutely as a result of the Law of the Government of the Republic: he annulled the order of the prison director and did not allow Simmi to be transferred to the opening prison. In this case, the situation is different. Early release falls within the jurisdiction of the court, the jurisdiction of the court, so as Minister of Justice, I cannot copy Urmas Reinsalu's moves. However, I have indeed expressed my view that war criminals, perpetrators of crimes against humanity, serial killers, serial rapists and pedophiles - those criminals who are really extremely dangerous to society - should bear the sentence that the court has imposed on them until the last day. I gave my ministry's criminal policy department a month's time to conduct an analysis of whether it would be enough to change the rules in prison. There are certain matrices that work out there. Whether it is enough to review these matrices and regulations and make changes to them or whether it is necessary to change the law. I don't know which way we're going today, but there's something we're gonna do to make sure there's no more cases in the future, so the criminals I called here can get out early.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U507	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U508	Thank you. I would still continue on these prevention programmes. The VEPA behavioural skills game has been funded by nearly EUR 1 million over five years, namely the European Union Social Fund. And now I hear there's going to be new prevention programs again with the support of external instruments. The purpose of operating for money from foreign funds is to pilot programmes and, if appropriate, to take them over to the state budget as a fixed cost. How do you think it's efficient to use money, when we pilot for five years, we find out that yes, it works, and then when the external funds end, let's say we don't have any money to continue, and we'll take a new program and start piloting again?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U509	Consistency and systemism are always preferred. But I guess this is also a very clear question of the availability of resources, of how much and what resources we can use at a certain time. I think that if we get the money from the foreign funds that will enable these programmes to be implemented, it would rather be used than not used. But, of course, it is worth taking over these programmes later and, if possible, financing them from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U510	Hanno Pevkur, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U511	Thank you. Good minister! I will proceed with this response, where you said that the most important message of this document must come from this Chamber, that the Estonian Parliament will establish the foundations of the criminal justice system and criminal policy, which will guarantee the independence of the investigative authorities and the entire justice system. It's a nice document to set that out. And as I said about the explanatory statement, it's good to read from there. But in the light of your response to me, and also in the light of the fact that both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior have approved this document, I ask you for your opinion or your assessment of the accusations of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior that the investigative bodies and the prosecutor's office are politically biased.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U512	Thank you for your question. For me, these statements are disturbing, and I think the two ministers you mentioned have gotten lost in their minds. In reality, Estonia has the rule of law. The principles of the rule of law are guaranteed, our justice system is independent, we have independent judicial procedures and pre-trial procedures both in the prosecutor's office and in the judicial authorities. I am in that position, and I dare defend that position in every way. We have not had any shifts, we have not started to move out of the rule of law or from a space surrounded or worthy of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U513	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U514	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The document you introduce speaks of prevention on several occasions. And prevention is indeed the only possible way to actually avoid criminal behaviour. But once this criminal behavior has happened, we know from statistics that it tends to happen again. In this context, Liina Kersna has already spoken about VEPA, we have the KiVa program, i.e. "The Incredible Years," which is a parenthood program. They are indeed organised centrally in Estonia and regrettably often for external instruments that are unsustainable. We would be able to ensure real sustainability if the programmes implemented in schools and local governments could offer their own local authorities on a day-to-day basis for their own resources by organising local life. Here is my question: what are the plans to realise these beautiful prevention plans and take them to the local level where they fit in? How can they be applied in a sustainable manner there?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U515	Thank you. This localisation must take place in cooperation with the local government. After all, these same programmes, whether funded from foreign funds or from our state budget, involve the social workers of the local government, as well as various popular associations, NGOs. Very many are involved in these projects. I believe that local authorities, as much as they have the strength and the resources of qualified staff, or human resources, to participate in these programmes, will do so as far as possible. They don't get sidetracked. And we have always consistently stressed the importance of cooperation at local level, the involvement of the local community, as well as the cooperation of local government with the bodies representing the country, whether the police or a sub-office in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs. It should be valued more and more and more to make use of these opportunities. But we also know that there is often a lack of strength at local level: either there are no people or there is not enough time for people to participate in these programmes. Or maybe they don't have enough preparation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U516	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U517	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The Chancellor of Justice spoke only recently in this chair about the fact that frontier workers play a very important role in the context of public services. You also say that the role of the municipality in prevention is very important. Would the Riigikogu also be able to examine any relevant documents drawn up after the administrative-territorial reform has been carried out? What has really changed? I am thinking precisely of parts of the structure. I know that different positions have been created, from child welfare and youth work to mental health centres at hospitals. How much has really changed? How much more has this capacity developed in the municipalities? Has it been analyzed or somehow measured?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U518	I hope, or rather believe, that there is. Analyses and summaries are expected to be carried out when all the same programmes and projects are completed or after some stage. But I will certainly ask the people of our criminal policy department for more detailed information on this, and then we can let you know what specific analyses and summaries have been made and where they will be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U519	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U520	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! One chapter is about addiction problems and not only prevention, but also about treatment. Yesterday we had a public hearing in the Riigikogu on the legalisation of cannabis and there the National Institute for Health Development gave a presentation. This report pointed out that we have very, very touchy options for treatment of addictions. In this document we read that 79% of those who use heavy substances released from prison are again interrogated as suspects or accused persons within two years, and even 1/3 of the crimes against property have been committed by addicts. For obvious reasons, of course. Indeed, we have been provided with multi-mensional family therapy for children, there are mental health centres for children, which are not local authorities, but are nationally coordinated, but there are really no treatment opportunities for adults. Is it also meant to do practically what to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U521	Well, it's meant to be a grown-up. Indeed, it is a problem that a very large proportion of those who have been released from prison will be re-entered between the gears of the justice system in two years. We have a rather poor figure compared to other countries in the European Union. Similarly, there are many people with mental health problems in our detention facilities, in addition to addicts. These are two of these extremely bad figures. But it clearly shows that these problems need to be addressed. Those persons who are in prison and are addicted or affected by mental health problems are in fact programmed to get rid of addiction and medical care is guaranteed. But indeed, if such a person is released from prison, as the statistics show, he will again enter his pre-prison social circle. Friends and acquaintances are waiting for him at the prison gate and he's falling back into the swamp. Only a few of them want to get rid of addiction problems. Most people don't want that. But we know that when you get rid of some addiction, it's all about you wanting to do it, you do it yourself. There is no way to free a person from addiction by force.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U522	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U523	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It was very interesting to listen to your review, and I very much agree with you: you said that in 2011, we did not have such opportunities, they have now emerged and we are also approaching children and young people in a different way. That is indeed the case. The question, however, is whether you would be prepared to speak with the Minister for Social Affairs. Before voting on the budget amendments, we had a discussion about the children's helpline. People who notice deviant or dangerous behavior or a child who may get involved in criminal activity also call this phone. The children's helpline is designed to enable callers to report some of these situations, either anonymously or by stating their name. If this phone shuts down, the possibility of this kind of prevention disappears. At present, an additional amount of EUR 12000 was not put into the budget. If you consider this important, are you prepared to talk to the Minister of Social Affairs about it or, as Minister of Justice, to fund it in your administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U524	Thank you. Such contact points, be they phones or other solutions, are necessary. I don't know how useful it would be if each target group had its own phone, but it is certainly important that there are places where people can turn when they need to provide information when they see that someone is vulnerable. The Ministry of Justice also carried out a brainstorming exercise to gather suggestions on the possibilities that victims of close - relationship violence could have to report their problems. Often they are relatively complicated because the perpetrator can control everything, especially when he is in the family. He may also be so intensive as to make sure that there is no opportunity to report this problem, to provide this information for help. They offered all kinds of options. For example, there was such a thing as to create special apps that are hidden under some other app, so you don't even know what they're doing there. It's not possible to track it after, and so on. So these innovative solutions are being dealt with. It is crucial to introduce innovative IT opportunities, precisely innovative solutions that come not only from the heads of officials but also from the collection of ideas. Of course, it must be possible to carry them out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U525	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U526	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with this issue of innovation, which you referred to in the previous response. Among the visions and objectives of criminal policy is quite excitingly described the use of technology and data to predict crime and provide different services. It is very interesting to have an AI avatar that controls border crossingrs by means of a polygraph, as well as profiling risky transactions using algorithms, and to prevent and predict crime, including forecasting where they are committed by algorithmic analysis. What time do you think such technologies and algorithms will actually be introduced in Estonia? These policy fundamentals are planned until 2030.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U527	Thank you for your question. I hope that they will still be in place before 2030. Such opportunities for using artificial intelligence have already been created in other parts of the world, and we do not have to develop them on our own. I just, I don't remember, about a month ago I went to Eurojust in The Hague, and we also visited a company that is working on the development of such solutions, particularly in the criminal and law enforcement fields. I took the contacts, passed them on to the Ministry, and we're planning to contact them and see if we can buy some more wisdom and do something with them. There's actually a lot and a lot of opportunities to pick up and then move on. But, of course, you also have to realize that everything costs something, it's all tied up in a lot of resources. At the same time, such an investment will certainly earn itself well over a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U528	Helmen Hunter, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U529	Thank you. Dear Minister, For the sake of the stenogram and for the sake of clarification, it is not necessary to create a child helpline. It has long been created and is working very successfully. The danger is that if no additional funding is found, it can go down. I don't have a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U530	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U531	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U532	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm coming back to the Herman Simm case. Let's say the court releases Herman Simm early. I can't tell you what happens if I have to go to the public and explain why the court acted like this, while treason is the maximum punishment for life imprisonment. How can I tell ordinary citizens that the Estonian judicial system is fair? In fact, there is a concession that betrayal is quite possible, and nothing much will happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U533	Thank you for your question. First of all, it must be noted that there is no judgment yet. The court has held its own hearing, but it has not made a decision. Well, we'll see if the court has done it. There will certainly be a reason why one or the other decision has been taken. And on this basis, we can explain to the general public and to the general public.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U534	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U535	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. In the prison of Tartu, some war criminals convicted in the International Military Court of The Hague are serving the sentence. These are, I do not know exactly whether Serbian citizens or Bosnian Serbs. Will there continue to be such a practice in the future that we will punish war criminals who have been convicted in The Hague or elsewhere and who are not Estonian citizens in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U536	Thank you. Yes, indeed, three people have been accepted to serve punishment in Estonia. What happens to future practice depends on the situation. So far, we have not received any requests for a new similar sentence to be served on the accused. That must be decided when a new application comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U537	Well, thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. Now we have the opportunity to hear a co-report. Jaanus Karilaid, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U538	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We also heard a similar presentation in the Committee on Legal Affairs, where there was a debate on this matter between the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and representatives of the Ministry of Justice. For example, it was sought to find out the financial cost planned for the implementation of the objectives set out in the draft proposal in 2020. It was criticised that unless a specific resource was intended to implement what was planned, the 'fundamentals of criminal policy' could remain a slogan. Mari-Liis Sööt, representative of the Ministry of Justice, claimed that the costs still needed to be calculated. The big problem is that strategic planning and budgeting are currently separated, which makes it difficult to calculate costs. They were also dissatisfied with the general wording of this draft. They asked to explain the meaning of the sentence that criminal proceeds go to help victims and prevent crime. How's that supposed to work? The Ministry of Justice considered that a special fund could be used for this purpose. They asked what was preventing it from being created. At present, confiscated proceeds go to the general budget because they are not earmarked. The amendment would require a separate political decision. There was also an interest in criminalising doping and it was also said that minors are gaining more and more rights in real life, but that is not what criminal policy is saying. Finally, decisions were taken, they were consensual: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 13 November, to appoint Jaanus Karilaid as rapporteur, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 27 November, to propose that the first reading be closed. All the decisions were consensual and no political group expressed its disagreement on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U539	There are no questions for the co-rapporteur. Thank you. Now we have the opportunity to open wide-ranging negotiations. There is a desire to participate in the negotiations. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U540	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, One of the biggest tasks of this hall is for Estonia to be the rule of law and for us to have legal certainty. Debate on developments in criminal policy is certainly one way to say which rule of law we want in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Of course, the vast majority have declarative provisions in this document, and perhaps that should be the case. But it is also important that the Riigikogu really signals that Estonia is the rule of law and that independence is undoubtedly a guarantee of trust in the criminal justice system, i.e. the courts, the prosecutor's office, the police, the prison system, as well as in criminal custody. Estonia is in a pretty high international position in this field. According to the World Bank index, as we can read in the explanatory memorandum, Estonia is higher than, for example, the US, which is, according to one government association, a role model, and much higher than neighbouring countries with a similar background. Similarly, Estonia has a very high position in terms of indicators that measure the independence of the judiciary. As I mentioned in my question, we are 10th in comparison to 126 evaluated countries. These are the values that have been created for almost 30 years, and these are the values that we need to keep. Every Estonian politician, whether acting at municipal level or at state level, whether a member of the parliament or government, must set an example, instill legal certainty for the Estonian people and confirm that the Estonian legal system is independent and remains independent. I was pleased to hear that the EKRE representatives in the government agreed with the document, as confirmed by the Minister for Justice, and the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs also said that there were no differences of opinion. Consequently, the representatives of the EKRE did not comment that we had problems with the independence of the courts, the police or the prosecutor's office. I very much hope that what the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior has said is their personal opinion, namely that it does not coincide with the current positions and perceptions of the Estonian state. But it is really very strange to hear it being said that the Estonian prosecutor's office is politically biased, but in a document where it would be possible to state at the level of the government that we do not agree with what is written here, we do not say anything. It's kind of a two-faced behavior. I also asked the Chancellor of Justice about the relevant guarantees of the Estonian justice system. And the Chancellor of Justice replied to me today, it is also printed in the pages, that we have created a system in Estonia that guarantees the independence of the criminal justice system. And that's what you need to say in this hall, this message must not be weakened. I very much hope that any politician who wants to blame the criminal justice system for the political bias of the prosecutor's office, court or investigative body will, for example, bring a single fact. And then, as the letter from the Chancellor of Justice tells me, the institutions concerned must examine it. So, good Riigikogu, please keep this line! Let us not inculcate to the people of Estonia that we have problems in the politically biased prosecutor's office or courts, let us not make vague accusations about the bias of the legal system! This does not contribute in any way to legal certainty in society. Just in case, two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U541	Thank you. Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U542	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, In any case, such claims that our law enforcement authorities have in some ways been politicised have long been sounded in society. And it certainly is that if this hypothesis is quite popular, then it must probably have some basis. I certainly do not agree with the previous speaker such a pink-mannered hosanna that everything is fine and the rule of law is protected. And when a representative of a party says a more critical word, this stand-by and a tagging attitude will immediately be taken. Let me give you an example. At 9:30 today, one announcement has come that the former state prosecutor, Evestus, has compared the State Secretary's commission with the Soviet Union's repressive body. This is a pure political assessment, and if it is provided by a former state prosecutor, then what is it because he is a former state prosecutor, the professional honour should not be lost and dignity should still remain. So there are people with this kind of political matrix or attitude. Let's just say the masks have fallen. The Committee on Legal Affairs undoubtedly intends to apply parliamentary supervision to examine this claim and call on the Minister for the Interior. I have also agreed with the Minister for Justice and the Attorney General on this issue to make those sentences that irritate some political associations and either prove them or disprove them. But the fact that the former state prosecutor made an assessment in which he calls the State Secretary's committee a repressive body without understanding what the duties of the Secretary of State are, without understanding how the Secretary of State set up this committee, or, on the contrary, very well understood and still deciding to send out such a message to society shows that there is actually a problem. Perhaps the problem is that politicians have not allocated sufficient resources to our law enforcement agencies? Or is the problem that we have regulated our criminal law so that the interpretation of the law is too much and is confusing? Or is there really a basis for the claims that have sounded here in the last few days? I think that, in parliamentary supervision, we can control them. The Committee on Legal Affairs is made up of all five political parties, we can draw conclusions-summaries and then either reassure society or make proposals on how to take these tensions down. But I certainly disagree with Hanno Pevkur's pink-mannered hossanna story that everything is fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U543	Thank you. Peter Ernitsa, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U544	Good manager! Colleagues! After the speech by my colleague Hanno Pevkur, I had no intention of coming here, but Mr Karilaiu's speech, as it were, tended towards the middle of this scale. As a pink manna, our situation is not, as Mr Pevkur has presented us, that any doubt is inappropriate and there is no such thing, of course, that is not true. I happened to talk to Hanno Pevkur's former party associate and many of our former colleagues, Igor Gräzin. We were talking about the DA's office, by accident. Something very important needs to be done here before we find another Attorney General. After all, Igor has clearly stated that the Estonian prosecutor's office is an 'inquisitionary, political tracking body'. And as I said on Monday on this very speaker's desk, I don't want to repeat all of this, in the verbatim, it exists, it was said at the time when the former Attorney General Perling wasn't in office, but he was the only candidate. There wasn't even a choice. But these doubts are still valid. All the same, I recall: for example, the proposal of Mary Kross' opportunity from the prosecutor's office, while the public interest is exceptionally high. But he didn't become a criminal. That 3,000 euros is nothing for a wealthy person to pay. And there are many, many, many stories. These are the same: the unfortunate Artem Suvorov I am now repeating, the same secret service provocator with a cognac bottle, who puts a bottle on your desk repeatedly and repeatedly. The deputy mayor goes to the mayor and asks what I'm gonna do with it. Several court grades have already said it's bullshit. And there are examples, and yes, I don't want to repeat them all. Mr Burkhardt's one million bribes to the Reform Party or Silvergate, where the bills were in someone's grandmother's kitchen or where they came from. In one case, no investigation was initiated; in the other case, the investigation was terminated quickly. And we still don't have clarity. Katri Raig has the idea of creating a committee of inquiry to analyse the situation and dispel these doubts on Monday to heaven. Maybe Hanno Pevkur is right: maybe there's nothing, everything's fine. Igor Gräzin may be just bullshitting, he's a paranoid guy. And there are a few more of these, aren't there? But maybe there's a dog buried here or maybe a big pack of dogs, maybe even a few cows, figuratively speaking. This doubt should be allayed. At the same time, we have a special committee on the supervision of security authorities, which could also deal with this. We do not need to create a new Commission. There are powers, people are in place, but so far the DA's office has been out of control, I mean from parliamentary control. So there are these problems, and I know that the Committee on Legal Affairs will be taking up this matter in the near future and will also discuss Mr Raig's idea, which I, along with many others, support. But in that case, you have to go to a wider surface, not be limited to a person or a narrow case. I actually hope there are no problems. I hope Hanno Pevkur is right. But I'm not that blue-eyed just to believe and declare that everything is in the best condition. Let's see, let's check, let's pull it off the blanket! And then we report everything's fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U545	Thank you. There's no more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 52. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 16 a.m. on 27 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U546	Well, two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U547	I think all the accusations concerning our legal system are simply not adequate. They're not adequate! Surely this document can be improved. Let's see if we have concrete proposals or not, but one thing for sure: if the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior meet to set the priorities from which the prosecutor's office and the police are based, the Minister of Justice will also at this meeting explain to the Minister of the Interior what guarantees are that the Estonian criminal justice system will continue to be independent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U548	We are now going to agenda item 7 today, which is the first reading of the draft 53th reading of the Riigikogu decision 'The fundamentals of legislative policy until 2030' presented by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U549	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Like the previous strategy paper, it has been prepared and presented by the Ministry of Justice through the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for discussion. These are the fundamentals of legislative policy until 2030. The fundamentals of legislative policy aim to create a good legislative standard and thus to be a long-term indicator of policy orientation on which legislation can be based. The law is and will remain the main instrument of political decision-making in the democratic rule of law. It is therefore crucial that legislation is agreed at the level of the legislator on how laws are created. The fundamentals are addressed both to the Government of the Republic and, in some ways, to the Riigikogu. Clear formulation and enforcement of policy bases are also important for stakeholders and the wider community to ensure the predictability and openness of legislative policy. The draft consists of two major parts. Firstly, the fundamentals agree on the principles of good lawmaking. Compared to developments in legal policy until 2018, the orientations taken remain largely unchanged in the fundamentals of legislative policy until 2030. It will continue to be central to achieving inclusive and evidence-based legislation based on good lawmaking principles. More clearly than in the past, the principle that legislation is not the first but the last means of resolving problems has been emphasised. Similarly, the new fundamentals, unlike so far, have set the objective of reducing the volume of legislation. New legislation will only be proposed if their necessity is clearly justified. The draft basic principles provide for the development of draft laws, the development of a legal language and legislative cooperation and development over the next ten years. The draft law initiated by the Government of the Republic must be drawn up in order to establish a plan for drafting the necessary legislation. Exemption from this is only permitted in the case of an argument of public interest which must be justified in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. The aim of the fundamentals is to involve the Riigikogu in the early stage of legislative drafting. As an update, the Riigikogu will be informed of the new draft as soon as the intention to develop is submitted to the public debate. The Riigikogu can then decide whether it wishes to discuss the proposed changes with representatives of the government. The aim is for legislation to start in more cases from the planned phase of development, which will ensure a more thorough preparatory work and a better quality result. In a democratic rule of law, legislation must be open and transparent. To this end, target groups must be involved as early as possible and better placed to ensure transparency. The draft decision stresses that, in order to ensure the availability of legislation and the transparency of the legislative procedure, the IT solutions used must be citizen-centred, accessible and comprehensive to all. The use of available data has been stressed in the analysis of impacts. There is a lot of data in our e-state that can be used in impact analyses. The legislator will also be guided to consider the use of innovative methods for carrying out the necessary impact analyses. The draft principles call for more ex-post evaluation to be carried out to verify the achievement of the objectives set in the adoption of the law. In order to achieve a clearer legal language, the draft stresses that language training is necessary for all civil servants to have legal language training in mind. As an update, it is proposed that, in justified cases, the user will be tested for comprehension of the text at the time of drafting. The draft also highlights legislative cooperation and development activities. There is a direct link between the professional skills of law-making lawyers and legislative proposals of good legal quality. Every year, the Government of the Republic must inform the Riigikogu of the fulfilment of the fundamental principles. As an update, it is proposed that the government report be accompanied by an expert opinion, which should reflect an external assessment of what has been done. The decision would enter into force once it was signed in accordance with § 1121 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U550	Thank you. Now every member of the Riigikogu can ask up to two questions to the rapporteur, the length of which is one minute. First please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U551	Thank you. The purpose of the bill is noble, but the real life, especially at the Ministry of Justice, doesn't fit in with it. If we look at the draft to make the second pillar optional, which is your party's electoral promise, there is no planning or impact analysis. If you say now that the election promise is in the public interest, I do not agree with it. Please explain why there is no planning and why there is no impact analysis that should be carried out before the draft is submitted, and not afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U552	Thank you for your question. There is a very large and important public interest behind this draft. Studies show that this public interest is growing, as this specific law is wanted to be adopted and enforced as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U553	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U554	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question concerning both the plans to develop and the impact assessments. According to this decision, these are, according to my understanding, primarily government tasks. But it is strange to me that, in the case of some opposition drafts, some ministers have found that the Riigikogu must also start drafting plans that are beautifully absurd. In our impact analyses, too, it has been said over and over again that they are not comprehensive enough. As we know, the Riigikogu does not have the capacity to carry out a thorough impact analysis. My question is whether we have ministers who do not know the legislative practice. How does it happen that the plans for development move to such a high level? And the second question: how must the impact analyses remain? If the Riigikogu has no capacity, then government agencies should do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U555	Thank you, good question. As I explained in the debate on the previous point, this is a fairly general, general draft of a general norm that creates such a vision, which sets objectives. I also know from my previous work experience that, of course, the situation is that if a member of the Riigikogu or a political group or a committee initiates a draft law, the Riigikogu has relatively little opportunity to prepare the VTK and carry out an impact analysis compared to the Ministry's apparatus. But this is the purpose of the Riigikogu to discuss this issue, to consider whether it could increase this capacity and carry out better impact analyses on the drafts it has initiated. It does not matter whether the draft law, which may eventually form a law, has been initiated in the Government of the Republic or in the Riigikogu. If it affects the whole of society, then the effect is still one. When the draft law initiated by the Riigikogu has been adopted and it has proved to be a cull, there is no reason that we did not have just a resource, so we had to adopt an incompetent law. But once again: this is very clearly a self-regulatory act of the Riigikogu. Here it is simply proposed that one vision is that in future the Riigikogu, as a result of its internal discussions, will reach one decision or another, after analysing the effects of one or another specific draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U556	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U557	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! Since this is a document which sets out the fundamentals of legislation until 2030, I ask from the outset whether the issue of increasing the role of the Riigikogu, the members of the Riigikogu in the legislative process was also discussed in the drafting of this draft. After all, Estonia is a parliamentary republic, but when we look at it, de facto executive power clearly dominates the legislator. I am not very critical in this regard looking back in time, but is it not still time to think about how to increase the role of members of the Riigikogu in lawmaking? Were there any discussions about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U558	Thank you, good questioner! I referred to this in my report so that the Riigikogu would then have the right and opportunity to express its opinion from the moment that the intention to develop was sent to the coordination circle. At the same time, the intention to develop would also be sent to the Riigikogu. According to this, the Riigikogu can decide whether it wants to be involved, participate, pass on its messages and, for example, invite the authors of the draft submitted by the government to its discussions. Let's put it this way. So opportunities have been proposed to involve the Riigikogu at an early stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U559	Heljo Pikhof, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U560	Dear Minister, I don't agree with one thing. The draft to make the second pillar optional should certainly have included an impact analysis. People have no idea what this entails. But your party has had the portfolio of the Minister of Justice for years, and Urmas Reinsalu, like a mantra, has been behind it, that legislation needs to be reduced, that legislation needs to be reduced. That's what you're saying. However, we know that the volume of legislation has not decreased. When will it begin to shrink, and at what rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U561	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, that is a very important objective. Much legislation, the proliferation of legislation, must be suppressed in some way so that ordinary people, as well as organisations that have to rely on these regulations, can organise their lives. Life shouldn't change so fast. At the same time, there are quite objective factors involved. A fairly large volume of our legislation is the transposition of different European Union legislation. We're not gonna get away with this. But there are also certain national circumstances. However, the objectives we have discussed have not come from the silence of the offices of ministerial officials. The NGO Association, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, the Estonian Traders' Association, the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce, the Service Economy Chamber, the E-Riigi Academy, the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, Praxis etc. were involved in the drafting of this draft. There is a very broad community behind this vision, or its purpose, in setting this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U562	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U563	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'm asking you about the intention to work out. I read in this explanatory memorandum that there are five exceptional cases in which no development plan has to be made: urgency, implementation of European Union law, handling of an external agreement, the annual procedure of the state budget, or there is no significant legal change or other significant impact. At the same time, the draft that has been submitted to us tells us that, in the light of the plans for development, this document has set a clear objective up to 2030 to be used in the run-up to the development of more complex and more socially impacted drafts. However, the draft concerning the second pillar and the law already passed by the Riigikogu on the amendment of the excise duty on alcohol submitted by the government are precisely such documents, yet they have been prepared and processed differently. I do not think that this coincides with the logic and the spirit of the document we are debating today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U564	Thank you. I have already explained the second pillar. If you're talking about alcohol excise, it was an urgent law because of the situation that prevailed, well, I'm not saying illegal trade, I'm saying border trade. There was increasing damage to the Estonian state every day, and in order to stop the increase in the damage, the bill had to be submitted quickly and it had to be dealt with as a matter of urgency. The volume of border trade had to be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U565	Maris Lauri, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U566	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue on the subject of impact assessments. You said it was a visionary document. Wouldn't it make sense if it was such a good idea to start using it quietly now? What am I pointing at? I would point out once again that if the government evaluates the drafts, some drafts will not be suitable because no impact analysis has been carried out. But you could provide the Riigikogu with an impact analysis. As we know, ministries have the capacity to carry out impact analyses, not to do so. Are you in favour of such a solution? Do you think that this could be one way, at least as long as the Riigikogu is unable to carry out precise impact analyses on its own? And secondly, I would still like the inclusion process to become the way it is imagined, not the way that happened today with one draft, in which no involvement took place and the button was sewn to the jacket.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U567	Thank you for your question. One very clearly stated objective of this strategy paper is wider involvement, more active involvement of both the Riigikogu and public involvement, and involvement of different interest groups. We cannot say that we do not have it now, but it will always be possible to implement the round of engagement at an earlier stage, unless there are any principles yet, some decisions in the final form. You can't have anything against that. And, as I said, it is also one of the objectives of this strategy paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U568	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U569	Good manager! Good waitress! In this total amendment of laws, those that are stable, almost like the Constitution, arouse confidence. Please enlighten us about these most permanent laws, the thirteen laws that have not been amended in ten years, or the thirty that have been changed in five years! What are these laws, and who have they produced? Do you have an overview? Maybe they should bring these people out more because they've been able to create laws that don't have to be touched once or twice every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U570	Thank you for your question. Indeed, I don't know how to answer that, which would require a little analysis and a look at the National Gazette portal. But I think one such law, which is often not pinched, is the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. However, one law that is brought to the table several times a year is the law on weapons. It really bothers me. But we certainly have a large number of laws in the Republic of Estonia that really do not open more often than maybe once in five years. I really don't know how to put statistics on this right now. But it can be investigated. I'll have it done and we'll be answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U571	Signe Riisalo, second question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U572	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You have previously also justified the abandonment of the intention to develop by the existence of a public interest. I hope that this was wrong, because I do not think that the public interest could be the reason. But we do know that the established practice in ministries is that if, in the action plan of the Government of the Republic, or coalition agreement, there are issues raised and the aim is to implement these promises, then they are often abandoned by default. Perhaps it would also be more honest to point out in this document as a sixth reason that the intention to develop can be abandoned if the amendment is included in the coalition agreement. How do you feel about that? It would at least be transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U573	Thank you for your question. If we look now, we will see that indeed the initiatives of the draft law resulting from the coalition agreement are, of course, very closely linked to the important public interest. These are the points of the coalition agreement, which have received a mandate from the electorate. The public has confirmed their need for elections. However, as regards the additional indication that the fulfilment of the objectives set out in the Coalition Agreement is of increased public interest, under public scrutiny, it is certainly possible to add that. If this document is pending between the first reading and the second reading in the Riigikogu, then there are many amendments to it and they can also be introduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U574	Toomas Kivimägi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U575	Thank you, manager. Very honourable Minister! I didn't expect an interpretation of the public interest as broad as you just put forward. As you pointed out directly, practically everything that has become part of the coalition agreement is of public interest, and that is why the indulgence given is that all these drafts resulting from the coalition agreement do not require a plan of development. In my opinion, there should be no such broad interpretation of the public interest. But here's my second question. I ask once again to clarify: if the members of the Riigikogu initiate a draft law, is there a need for a plan of development or is it not necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U576	Thank you, good questioner! On this second question, as I said, it is very clearly a self-ordering question of the Riigikogu, a self-ordering right. If the Riigikogu assumes this obligation, it must, of course, comply with it. It's now proposed, but it's just a draft, it's a first reading. Between the first and second readings, you can add things here and take something out of here. As I said before in answering one question, it is certainly worthwhile to look into the text and think about what is possible and what is not possible and whether to set a more distant goal to address additional resource needs, competences and so on. As regards the fact that the points set out in the coalition agreement are not of public interest, I cannot agree with that in any way. These points, which have entered it, are very clearly actions included in the electoral programmes of the political parties, in the electoral promises. And if these promises have been supported by voters, I believe they can be considered to be of public interest. Your party partner proposed to include a sentence in the text that, in the case of those draft laws provided for in the coalition agreement, the VTC would not have to be developed, as if it had already been pre-marked. I doubt it, though. In the case of some drafts, perhaps the ITC should still prepare and carry out an impact analysis. Again, the Riigikogu has the opportunity to make corrections.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U577	Peter Ernits, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U578	Good manager! Good minister! Four years ago, the Minister of Justice, I remember, came up with such a plan that this legislative yeast should be frozen in any way, the ministries should start severely restricting the prominence of legislation. But as I read here and hear every year, it has not actually been possible to put a stop to it. This yeast has made the dough grow. That's right. You're a big man, strong and smart, can you limit this proliferation? How do you get involved more radically as Minister of Justice? Your ancestors haven't been able to do it, I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U579	Thank you for your question. It's not just the Justice Department that's working out the bill. The proportion of the drafts drawn up by the Ministry of Justice is still marginal. The change requires a significant change of attitude from all ministries and other government agencies. Only together can we do that. As a general rule, the role of the Ministry of Justice in coordinating draft laws is limited to monitoring whether good legislative practice, HÕNTE and whether the draft act also meets other legislative requirements, for example, it is not a breach of the Constitution. But the Ministry of Justice doesn't make a substantive assessment of one bill or another. What's in it is from the Ministry of Industry. That is why it is important that this strategy document be approved by the Riigikogu so that the Riigikogu becomes involved in legislative drafting at the earliest possible stage, immediately after the intention to develop has been sent to the coordination circle. Then the Riigikogu, as the legislator, who ultimately has to enforce one draft or another as a law, could ask whether it is really necessary. The originator should then give further reasons for this. There is no other option, but it is possible to get closer to the objective by establishing such joint ventures and perhaps a certain control mechanism on the part of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U580	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I request Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, as co-rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U581	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good workmates at a late hour! We're talking short, all readable, but for the sake of the verbatim, I note that we met at two sessions. The first meeting was on 16 September, with the members of the committee Marek Jürgenson, Kaja Kallas, Uno Kaskpeit, Toomas Kivimägi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof, Rein Suurkask and Urve Tiidus. Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg and his advisor Kert Karus were invited. We listened to them, and that caused a lot of controversy. We reached the consensus that we would send a hearing on this matter to all the committees, as well as to all the political groups. And, oh, surprise, that's where the response came from. Next time, we met on November 4. Then Karmen Vilms, Head of the Legal Order Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Kert Karus, Adviser to the Minister of Justice, were invited. Of course, members of the committee attended by Riho Breivel, Uno Kaskpeit, Andrei Korobeinik, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Heljo Pikhof and Urve Tiidus. After analysing all the proposals received from both the committees and the political groups, we took some procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary sitting on 13 November, yes, we have reached this debate today. It was a consensual decision. Secondly, it may have been surprising for many, but by consensus, it was decided that I was the waitress. Third, to propose a deadline of 27 November 2019 for amendments and to propose that the first reading be completed. This too was a consensual decision. I'm ready to answer questions. I would like to offer you a very short version and a very long one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U582	Thank you. It seems that despite this kind offer, there are no questions from the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Only the representatives of the political groups may speak, the speaking time being five plus three minutes. First, please speak on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U583	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The Group of the Social Democratic Party notes that the document on the fundamentals of legislative policy contains some correct ideas. In many respects, however, the government does not behave according to the fundamentals. The aim of improving the quality of legislation is to be welcomed. We agree that legislation must be in simple language, clear and precise. Let's hope we get to that goal someday. At the same time, the draft is full of selective and strange restrictions. For example, according to the draft, the Government of the Republic must draw up an intention to draft any draft legislation it intends to draft, but it is added that the Government may not draw up it if it is justified by the public interest. That's what it says in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. It doesn't make any sense what public interest means. At present, the good lawmaking and regulatory rules established by the government set out specific points in which the intention to develop may not be drawn up. If there is a public interest in the future instead, all drafts may not be drawn up. Political will, for example, is behind the dismantling of the pension system. The impact assessment seeks data that fits the political will. The question arises where there is an intention to develop and where the public interest is that the intention to develop has been abandoned. I asked the Minister to comment on the dismantling of the second pillar of the pension without prior analysis of its effects. The Minister admitted in the committee that members of the Riigikogu do not have the opportunity to analyse the effects on the same scale as the Ministry can. This suggests that members of the Riigikogu could be assisted. Consequently, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu needs much more money. Time also pointed out that the draft on the second pillar of the pension was not yet ready, and he said he believed that the draft would be accompanied by an impact analysis. However, I would like to point out that the impact will still be assessed before the draft is drawn up. According to the Minister, the fundamentals are an idealised approach to the legislative process. But sometimes it is not rational to design a plan with impact analysis, because the change is completely understandable without it. The best legislation can be born if it is based on reason. This is how the question arises, which is why we need a document on the fundamentals of legislative policy. Developments in legislative policy require that the Riigikogu does not process the draft if it does not have the intention to develop it. Drafts initiated or submitted in the Riigikogu are not yet required to be drawn up. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu must decide on the adoption of the draft procedure within three working days. At the same time, the Riigikogu Board has no analytical centre required for this purpose and therefore has no competence to reject the draft on this basis. The imposition of such an obligation limits the right of a Member to initiate a draft or to propose amendments and is therefore incompatible with the Constitution. This directly violates the right of members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees to initiate draft laws. The fundamentals foresee that the impact of the amendment to the draft of the Riigikogu will be assessed in the course of the procedure, and the explanatory memorandum states that Parliament has the necessary resources for this purpose in the form of the Development Monitoring Centre and the Legal and Analytical Department. However, the work of the Development Monitoring Centre is regulated by law and, if they were to undertake an analysis of the effects of the drafts, they would violate existing law. In the Legal and Analytical Department, as we know, only four people with analyst backgrounds are working and meeting this requirement would require an increase in the number of legal and analytical staff. Head of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, Antero Habicht, acting as Deputy Director, stated at the meeting of the committee... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U584	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U585	... that the amendment to the State Budget Act is mostly accompanied by a large number of amendments, sometimes even several hundred. The deadline for the submission of proposals will normally be 10 days and the effects of the changes should also be assessed within that period. The problem would be the lack of basic data, as primary data are often used internally by ministries. It is therefore very difficult to create the capacity of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, as is currently the case in all ministries. The draft concerns the assessment of the impact of the proposed amendments by stating that the impact that the implementation of the law may entail will be assessed before the draft is drawn up on the basis of the principle of proportionality. The impact assessment of a change with significant impact shall be more comprehensive and shall include, inter alia, an analysis of other possible solutions. The Riigikogu ensures that the impact of the amendment to the draft of the Riigikogu during the procedure is also assessed. According to developments in legislative policy, the amendment must include a reference to the part of the draft which is to be amended and recommend the exact wording of the amendment. In view of this, the obligation to extend such an impact analysis to all amendments creates a procedure in which the Commission can skip an amendment in which a member of the Riigikogu, a political group or a committee has failed to provide alternatives in an important impact analysis. Such a requirement for an impact analysis infringes the right of an ambassador, political group and committee under the Constitution to initiate drafts and propose amendments. It is also clear that a member of the Riigikogu does not have the same means of ordering impact analyses as the government has. If the lead committee of the draft proposal were to decide whether the amendment had been subject to the necessary impact assessment, it might happen that the majority of the commission considered that there was no necessary impact assessment and that the amendment could be rejected. This requirement would certainly restrict the opposition's ability to exercise its constitutional rights. It also fails to understand the place where it is specifically emphasised that the principles of good lawmaking must also be applied within the first hundred days of the government. And why is such a document indicating a coalition agreement? Finally, the Social Democrats are of the opinion that the right of members of the Riigikogu to initiate and amend drafts must not be restricted in order to improve the quality of legislation. The imposition of excessively strict requirements on the draft law and its amendments restricts, in particular, the opposition's ability to exercise its constitutional rights. The main aim of the document on the fundamentals of legislative policy as a vision document is essentially that the Riigikogu gives the Government of the Republic specific long-term guidelines for the implementation of better lawmaking policy. We have presented our proposals and opinions to the Committee on Legal Affairs. We will certainly also table specific amendments. In the form it is today, it is certainly not possible to support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U586	Thank you for your meaningful presentation. Next on behalf of the Reform Party, please speak to Toomas Kivimäe! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U587	Mr President, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I dare say it's a pretty good bill. If you read the text of the draft, I think that 95% of it can definitely be signed. But, unfortunately, the devil is hiding in details. The first one, which is most worrying, is the same famous intention to develop. I think that the requirement of intention to develop, as such, is not someone's criminal plan in any way to prolong the process of drafting laws. Its primary aim is still to avoid possible errors in the drafting of one or the other draft and to find out whether a specific draft is needed at all. While the draft on the table today contains a fine general rule of intention to develop, it also states a special rule that the Government of the Republic may not draw up an intention to develop if justified by the public interest. Here I thought it meant a relatively narrow interpretation of the public interest, but the Minister of Justice just said from this point of view that the whole coalition agreement was a public interest. If so, we will make a practically big step backwards with this draft decision. I agree that the coalition agreement is of public interest, but it should not be a public interest within the meaning of this provision of the law. Then we will withdraw completely from the requirement that plans for development need to be made. And in fact, practice is a criterion of truth, even though it has been ignored in practice. When the Minister referred to the alcohol duty law, what was last done was a step in the right direction. But I will remind you of the end of 2016 when the so-called cluster law was tabled to raise alcohol excise duties sharply. No planning or anything. And the financial repercussions of the tens of millions in the state budget did not allow themselves to be expected for long. I think if there had been a thorough impact analysis and an intention to develop, the decisions of the Riigikogu would not have been the way they were then made and the negative impact on the state budget would not have been the way it really was. Several years passed, three years passed, when Martin Helme was led to realize that this was the wrong plan. But why were three years to be filled by the Latvian Treasury? I think one of the important reasons was that there was no plan for development. And for another example, I am very pleased that the Vice-President of the Riigikogu, Helir-Valdor Seeder, has also come to the hall to listen to the story of the second pension pillar. I think it is very wrong to say, Mr Minister, that there is a very high public interest in this draft. If we adopt the Constitution, why does the Constitution say that, for example, tax and budgetary laws cannot be put to a referendum? Of course: if we put a referendum on whether to lower income tax, there is no need to doubt that 90% of respondents will support it. That is why such things cannot be put to a referendum. And now to point out that there is a very high public interest in this draft and therefore there is no need for a development plan... So I think that the opposite has been done in this case too and, in fact, in political terms, it is a rather brilliant idea for the Fatherland. I think Helir is one of the leaders of this, he had this idea before the election that this way he could attract the attention of the voters. And, of course, that attracted the attention of a very large number of voters. After that, the elections went better than they planned. Next, it certainly needed to be included in the coalition agreement. And then Martin Helme, at one meeting, says, I think it was at Eesti Pank, that it has been decided, so don't argue now. And what's most important, practically the same day Prime Minister Ratas says we're working on analysis. You see, the decision has been made, but we're just starting to analyze. It's the opposite of how things really should work. Also, it is not difficult to find a decision-supporting guided by the result always depends on the order you want, whether you want an analysis that supports your decision. This is another example. I think it is a big step backwards when we give the coalition agreement public interest in the context of this draft. In such a case, practically every draft that the government wishes to submit is also exempt from the obligation to draw up an intention to develop. The second fundamental question concerns the role of the Riigikogu. This morning Siim Kallas took the lead in the conference hall of the Riigikogu. I have said this several times before and I am also saying today that Estonia is a parliamentary republic according to the Constitution, but in fact the executive power dominates the legislator. The most striking example is what Mr White brought to this very conference today. It is estimated that I have not done an accurate analysis, but it is estimated that 90% of the draft laws are initiated by the Government of the Republic and only 10% are initiated by members of the Riigikogu. And actually, this 10% is a bit of an illusionary figure too, especially if we count on this 10% number of proposals from coalition members in cases where there is a hurry and a desire to circumvent the requirement of intention to develop. However, the vast majority of the draft laws initiated by the opposition land on the shelf after the first reading. Which actually means that the sum of the sum of the amounts is the draft laws initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, which receive the status of the law, in fact very little. I have a request from this speaker to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to carry out an analysis of how many drafts the Government of the Republic has initiated, how many members of the Riigikogu and how many of them have finally become a law. I think that this percentage, which shows the contribution of the members of the Riigikogu, is actually extremely small. Now, however, I am going to talk a little bit against the importance of the intention to develop a question raised by the Minister. On this point, I fully agree with Mr Pikhof. If the members of the Riigikogu want to initiate draft laws and they are also obliged to draw up plans for drafting, then we will exclude the possibility for members of the Riigikogu to participate fully in the drafting of legislation. I doubt it's right. Once again, Estonia is a parliamentary republic and, in fact, members of the Riigikogu should initiate much more draft laws than they do. There are perhaps some subjective reasons for the current situation, but there are significantly more objective reasons why this is not actually done. And if, now, indeed, the requirement that the draft laws initiated by the members of the Riigikogu also have to be designed, then I say this once again, the Riigikogu has been completely shut down. And there's no way I can agree to that. A few more things. It is indeed surprising to me that the coalition agreement, as such, has been incorporated into the fundamentals of legislative policy. I do not underestimate the importance of this at all, but tell me how it is intended to find a way to decisively improve the quality of coalition agreements. That sounds really fancy, but a little stakhanovic. How do you gain access to drawing up a coalition agreement between two or three parties? How does the state get in there? I don't see any chance. Once again, I do not underestimate the importance of the coalition agreement, but I see no reason to bring it into this document. The same is true for that hundred days. I don't understand why the first hundred days are being raised somehow higher than the rest of the period. Perhaps it should be said that it must be observed especially on the last hundred days. If we make such an exception, we will make one period more important than the others. So the sum of the sum of the sum I'm going to say again, when I came here today, I thought there was a big problem, this intention to develop. But now there is another major problem and this is the plan to start demanding that members of the Riigikogu develop a plan. And the third problem is such a broad interpretation of the coalition agreement. I also believe that this draft needs to be substantially amended, and the Reform Party Group will certainly make these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U588	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 53. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 27 November at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U589	We now come to today's item No 8, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Martin Helme, waitress of the speaker's desk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U590	Yeah, there's a question for you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U591	Dear Minister, We also had a debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But now that I have studied this bill thoroughly, I can see that its greatest drawback is uncertainty. Indeterminate that which schemes are the ones to be notified and which schemes are the ones that are not to be notified. I tried to understand it, and then I found in this coordination table that the bartender didn't understand it either. They ask the Minister of Finance about the regulation that will be introduced under this law and where these criteria are, and give a good example that in the final phase of drafting the draft, it was unclear whether the recommendation to move the production unit to a country with a tax rate lower than Estonia should also be notified. Well, the counselor suggests that you take the production to a place where the tax burden on the workforce is lower. Is this also a scheme to be notified to the tax authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U592	Thank you. Yes, it is a problematic directive. It's perfectly clear. This directive itself is very vague, poorly implemented and, poetically speaking, it is essentially a directive agreed at EU level, which says that tax fraudsters must start reporting fraud themselves to the state. And the Minister of Finance will be obliged to draw up this framework or to prescribe the conditions from which it will no longer be tax optimisation, but tax fraud. If we see, under these conditions, that there is tax fraud or a risk of tax fraud somewhere, then everyone should be aware of it. I dare you honestly admit that no one in the Ministry of Finance would have come up with such a law. This is the transposition of the Directive and the transposition of the Directive in as less burdensome a form as possible. It has also taken advantage of all the possibilities in which part of the directive is "mandatory" and some can be taken over voluntarily. I agree that the ministerial regulation has a very substantial role to play in the implementation of this law. But I think that although the deadline for the law to apply is stated, it may actually be reasonable to wait and see how other countries are going to implement it in order to even understand where this is going.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U593	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is the rapporteur for the floor here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U594	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! The draft was discussed by the Finance Committee on 4 November and presented by Minister of Finance Martin Helme, previous speaker, and Anneli Valgma, chief specialist at the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, the draft concerns the exchange of information on schemes affecting taxation, the exchange of information on financial accounts and the identification of the beneficial owner. And as the previous speaker said, the draft aims to reduce aggressive tax planning and increase the transparency of national tax systems. I am not going to describe the substance of the draft, the Minister has already described it. I would like to examine briefly the issues and questions that we had in the Commission under discussion. Indeed, the Minister explained the purpose and content of this draft and the Members of the Commission also asked questions. The chairman of the committee was first interested in which draft payment concerns. The Chief Specialist of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, who answered all the questions, explained that the Directive regulates the exchange of information on direct taxes. He also stressed that the main risk was that profits would be transferred to the country where they were exempt but where they could be deducted. There you go. They then asked whether the bill was also about price manipulation. Indeed, the answer was that the scheme criteria, together with the explanations, were included in the draft decree of the Ministry of Finance. It was then asked who would be subject to regulatory reporting obligations. The Chief Specialist of the Ministry of Finance explained that the aim is primarily to catch large corporations that have developed and implement the schemes. It was also clarified whether the regulation concerns companies of all sizes. The answer was that in principle this is the case, regulation does not distinguish companies by size. Countries exchange quite a lot of information among themselves and it is possible to improve regulation when new schemes appear. The speaker asked that, since the directive also covers schemes that can avoid the exchange of financial accounts, whether the draft concerns money laundering. The answer of the Chief Specialist of the Ministry of Finance was that regulation is also linked to money laundering. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) developed measures to protect the exchange of financial accounts and schemes for hiding the beneficial owner, and this part came from the OECD. The speaker was also interested in what would happen if companies were to circumvent bank questionnaires. The answer was that tax advisors could indeed recommend schemes that allow money to be transferred from a bank to a place that works like a bank, but is essentially not a bank. For example, it may be recommended to place money in an image that is similar to a bank account but does not meet the requirements of the bank account information exchange obligation, or to keep money in a country that does not exchange such information at all. Well, then they asked if this bill had anything to do with crypto money. The answer was that it could be interpreted as such and that it could also be interpreted as meaning that crypto assets are covered by this regulation. It was then intended to clarify whether this draft really concerned only the transposition of the directive, and the answer was that, yes, this draft concerns only the transposition of the directive. The speaker also asked whether temporary agency workers' schemes also fell within the scope of this draft. To that end, the answer was yes: they are. The committee chairman then asked what would happen if this law were not passed. The answer was that, in this case, it is an infringement procedure of the European Union and fines can be quite high, because it is an issue of tax transparency, which is why the issue is a matter of particular concern at European level. By the way, the proposal for a directive was already tabled during the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. Finally, it was asked whether regulation could also be used, for example, to restrict competition and to block the practice of optimising the taxes that we accept. The answer was that the directive concerns, above all, the risk of aggressive tax planning, and we do not face much danger from this point of view. Thank you for your attention. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U595	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 89. That concludes the first reading and sets the deadline for submitting amendments, including 27 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U596	Dear Speaker! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We come before you with a law amending the Tax Exchange Act. This law transposes the directive by which we will exchange information on tax schemes that affect taxation, bank account information and the identification of the beneficial owner. The aim of extending the exchange of information is to combat aggressive tax planning and to obtain more information on possible gaps in their tax laws. The reporting obligation is a scheme which has a link to any foreign country and whose characteristics meet one of the criteria set out exhaustively in the Finance Minister's Regulation. Aggressive tax planning cannot be defined with unchanged characteristics. Therefore, at the level of the Regulation, criteria that may indicate aggressive tax planning or transactions with which to hide its assets are laid down. All schemes that meet these characteristics must be submitted to the tax authorities. The main interest is to obtain information on aggressive tax planning schemes that abuse gaps between national tax laws. In particular, tax relief or tax avoidance schemes are targeted. Information must be provided primarily by advisors operating in Estonia who have developed the scheme. The information on the scheme ordered or self-developed from a third country shall be provided by the taxpayer itself, even if the lawyer or auditor who developed the scheme cannot provide information due to the protection of professional secrecy arising from the law. The customer may also exempt the lawyer from the obligation of professional secrecy at any time. The right of non-incriminating self-incrimination, which protects the person providing the information, is included in the draft act, so as not to disclose information which would incriminate him or his close identity in committing a misdemeanour or a criminal offence. The scheme shall be submitted to the Tax and Customs Board within 30 calendar days of the transfer to the customer or of the start of the implementation of the scheme. The tax and customs office shall send the information collected to the central register maintained by the European Commission through which Member States shall have access to information concerning them. For the first time, we must send information on the schemes in October next year. The draft does not take over the norm according to which the tax authorities may also require taxable persons to report on the use of the scheme. Where information on the sale or implementation of schemes is provided to the tax authorities, further information on their subsequent use does not have sufficient significant added value. This law is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2020. It shall apply from 1 July of the following year. That's all for me. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U597	Let's keep going. Today's 9th item is the first reading of the bill 77 of the Riigikogu's resolution "Accepting the State's Summary Report for the financial year 2018. I beg the Secretary of Finance Martin Helme to waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U598	Dear Deputy Speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will present to you the country's consolidated accounts for the financial year 2018. This report gives you an overview of the steps taken by the government in 2018 with taxpayers' money to boost our economy, people's well-being and security, and as a result our country's financial situation changed. Overall, we are moving in the right direction: the economy grew by 4.8%, people are doing better, the average wage increased by 7.6%, the number of people employed increased by 0.9% and unemployment decreased to 5.4%. Now, in a comprehensive way, the government's goals have been achieved. One of the general objectives was to increase Estonia's population in 2018 and it grew by almost 5,000 people, reaching 1323824 people. However, the total birth rate did not increase at the expected rate. The second objective was to increase social well-being and cohesion. The rate of relative poverty has unfortunately not decreased very quickly in recent years; work must continue in this direction, and this is what the current government is doing. At the same time, the number of people with strong national identity has increased. The aim of the Government of the Republic was also to remove Estonia from slow economic growth. In order to meet this objective, we will assess the productivity rate per employed person, with an observed growth trend, but it could grow faster. At the same time, more older people have been able to enter the labour market. When speaking about the economic environment in general, it can be said that by 2018, the Estonian economy had recovered in many respects from the global crisis that began ten years earlier. Both the substantial strengthening of external demand and the strong increase in public investment in 2017 contributed to this. As the Estonian economy had returned to its potential level at the time of the preparation of the state budget for 2018 and employment created historical records, the government increased its investments. However, as a hindsight, we can see that the Estonian economy was overheated by then and that the additional stimulus from the state was not directly necessary. Last but certainly not least, the objective of the government in 2018 was to maintain and strengthen national security. In this area, too, we have achieved our goal. Despite rapid economic growth, the share of military defence costs, together with the host country's costs, is more than 2% of GDP as in previous years. The summary report for the financial year of the State has been compiled on the basis of the accounts of all public sector entities. It shall consist of an annual report and financial statements and shall include data on the state, local government, government and public sector as a whole. As of 31 December 2018, the general government had assets worth a total of EUR 17.08 billion, most of which were fixed assets with an exact value of EUR 13.39 billion. Compared to the previous period, the value of the assets increased by EUR 566.2 million. The total liabilities amounted to EUR 6,23 billion and increased by EUR 487.3 million compared to the previous period. The loan commitment decreased by 31.5 million in 2018 and amounted to 2.02 billion euros at the end of the year. The stabilisation reserve remained in the same order of magnitude as at the end of the previous period and amounted to EUR 411.5 million. To be exact, it decreased by 0.2% compared to the previous year. The liquidity reserve decreased by 9%, reaching EUR 676.6 million by the end of the year. Government revenue amounted to EUR 9.89 billion in 2018 and increased by 857.5 million, or 9.5%, compared to 2017. Of the revenues, the sum of social tax and social security contributions increased the most by 320.4 million euros and the increase by 12.1% and VAT by 125.8 million euros and the increase by 6.9%. Government expenditure amounted to EUR 9.72 billion, an increase of EUR 988.7 million or 11,3% over the year. Of the costs, the biggest increase was the grants granted, i.e. EUR 543.3 million, with an increase of 13.4%. These included benefits for the unemployed and work capacity benefits, which increased by EUR 118.6 million or 138.9%, and family allowances by EUR 79.2 million and an increase by 17%. Investments were made by the government sector in 2018 for a total of EUR 978 million. This is EUR 54.5 million more than in 2017 and growth is 5.9%. The nominal general government balance was in deficit in 2018 at 0.6% of GDP, or 146 million euros. Of this, the deficit of the central government was 1% of GDP and was partly offset by the surplus of local governments and social security funds, the first plus 0.2% and the second by + 0.3% of GDP. The deficit of the central government was mainly due to the strong increase in investment activity, with an increase of 15%, an increase of 36% in payments to the EU budget and an increase of 22% in operating expenses. On the other hand, interest and owner's income decreased by 23%. The results of the social security funds exceeded expectations for both the health insurance fund and the unemployment fund, due to the very good income from social tax and unemployment insurance contributions. The surplus of local governments was also mainly due to strong income tax receipts. The summary report of the financial year also passes the audit of the National Audit Office before submitting it to the Riigikogu. The National Audit Office found that the annual accounts for 2018 reflect the state's financial position in all material respects and that the financial results and cash flows of the reporting period ended fairly. According to the National Audit Office's audit report, the state's economic transactions have been carried out in a substantial part in accordance with the State Budget Act and the State Budget Act of 2018 and the Amending Act. As in previous years, the National Audit Office made proposals in its report on the financial management and internal control systems of the state. The ministers concerned mostly agreed with the recommendations made and promised to take them into account in their further activities or explained more specific circumstances to the National Audit Office. Dear Riigikogu! I would ask you to confirm the State's consolidated accounts for the financial year 2018. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer the questions too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U599	Thank you, Minister. You really have questions. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U600	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. One of the government's objectives was to increase prosperity and coherence. More specifically, the objective was to reduce the relative poverty rate to 15.5%, but this has not actually happened. Rather, relative poverty has increased. When tricks were done here with income tax, it was finally achieved that relative poverty among older people had increased, although it was said that it should get better. What is your assessment of the success of this goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U601	Thank you. First of all, I must say, as an introduction, that, in terms of the institution, I am speaking about the objectives of the government, but we all understand that in 2018 another government was in office with other objectives and other ministers. So in this sense, this is a retrospect, and I think that at least reform parties should know how manipulative the number is relative poverty. The faster we grow our wages, our income, the easier it will be to fall into relative poverty at the bottom of this so-called income. We can look at this relative poverty both in and out of the way, he's definitely some kind of indicator, something he measures, but we can also calmly say that he shows us rapid wage growth in some pay slices.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U602	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U603	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I look at this report of the National Audit Office, the report of the previous financial year, and I see here that last year's cash flow from the Treasury was negative of EUR 179 million, this year it is negative of EUR 250 million. And I remember I asked for your next year's budget with a request for information, and there's a cash flow of 453 million euros in minus. I quickly scored: 880 million in three years, that's nearly a billion. While you have promised to bring more money to the Treasury, there was money laundering in the amount of a billion dollars, and before the elections, I think you promised Drumprint a billion dollars for defence costs, but before those billions of yours arrive, the cash register will run dry. But seriously, what it comes from is that for three years in a row, cash flow is so much negative. The Ministry of Finance justified this by the unstable collection of euro money. But what's going on in there anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U604	Thank you. What the hell is going on? Overspending was open. Yeah, but I don't agree with the fact that the reserve is running dry. The reserve has decreased, but some of the loans taken, for example, in the current year have already been partially repaid; they were short-term loans. So by the end of the year, it's actually going to be minus less than it was here in the middle of the year. And, of course, this is part of what happened to the 2018 budget. The forecasts were too optimistic and also international, let us say, the estimates of the economic situation were optimistic. The potential of the economy was misjudged, certain tax receipts were misjudged and, based on this assessment, spent very highly. The resulting budget deficit has now had to be corrected ex post, and it will take more than one year. That's what it's all about, but I'll get the American money.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U605	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U606	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I have one observation, one question. Does it seem to me alone that this retrospective document is more specific and gives a clearer picture of the situation in the country than the new year's plan that we discussed today, or do you share my view? And secondly, what do you think about the idea that the annual report could actually be discussed earlier, already in the spring, and that it could, for example, be an input into the national budget strategy? Now the accounts are largely electronic. In the past, I understand that if the local governments had to consolidate their accounts manually, it took longer and we were ready by November. But now that it all automatically collapses, it would be possible to draw up a picture of the state's revenue, expenditure and assets already six months earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U607	Thank you. It is probably right that the collection or evaluation of ex post activities is more specific, this format is more specific than the budget. And the difference is that our current budget for 2020 is an activity-based budget, which is structured differently and for which I, too, have a desire for it to become more detailed in the future. The proposal to have a summary report prepared earlier is theoretically possible and, if you want to make an effort, it is really not beyond comprehension. But the main reason he has now remained in the autumn is that there really are not just local government reports together, but there are also reports of state-owned companies and foundations, which must be submitted by 30 June. Well, we can theoretically say that the recapitulative statement could be prepared by September or the end of August. But without changing this system, which we have so far implemented for the annual accounts, this report will not be completed by April.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U608	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U609	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Basically, what you're defending right now, and what you're giving us, is the work of the previous government. My question, however, is what today's government intends to do in terms of relative poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U610	Thank you. Extraordinary Penion Uprising.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U611	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U612	Thank you. I will also come to this relative poverty indicator for a moment. From your answer to my first question, the safest way to fight it is to stop the raise. I hope you didn't mean it like that, but that's how your speech turned out. Instead, I would like to talk about the tables that set out the target rates, which are now part of our national budget. These targets are often absurd. I will give you an example: the employment rate target for 2018 was 75.4% and the actual rate was 79.2%. On this basis, it should be concluded that we must make an effort to reduce employment, which is obviously not an adequate target. What are you gonna do to make sure we don't have any more of these stupid targets in the next budget and in any of those documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U613	Thank you. It is difficult for me to promise that I will do something about it, because some other questions say that there is too little specificity and measurement. It is true, in itself, that clear targets are set in the country or some clear metrics are put in place on the basis of which we can assess ex post whether the activities have been rational and have led to some result. We all know how people in the public sector can come up with tasks and ask for money for them and then spend that money diligently without being able to say that the world has changed. In this sense, these targets are not wrong; in this respect, I think they are necessary. The question is justified when these targets are taken from the ceiling or documentation has been set for objectives that are either completely unpredictable or which are very missing from the label year after year. After all, they do not fulfil their real purpose. They don't give us any adequate guidance information. It must also be said that these targets or targets are fixed by the sectors themselves. I have been sitting in a public institution where exactly the same level of reference was set for myself, which was then measured. And the situation was, how can I put it, such a joke between an old chicken and an old rooster that the chicken didn't want to run away fast enough to get the rooster, and the rooster didn't want to run fast enough to stop the chicken. The level was set so high that there was a bit of progress, but so low that there wouldn't be any failure to complete it. Well, in a way, it can be to create an illusion for himself sometimes. But it still depends on the area and how serious the areas take it. The Ministry of Finance can undoubtedly, well, let's say this, in some way, try to standardise and motivate the situation, to pay more attention to it in the process of budgeting. But ultimately, these numbers together will still be written by each ministry itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U614	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U615	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Minister! We are discussing here the consolidated accounts for the financial year 2018. The Head of Government was this year Jüri Ratas, who is also the Head of Government today. To Mr Sõerdi's question, you answered that what was there was an overspending. How high do you estimate the risk of overspending in 2019 and possibly also in 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U616	Thank you. Given that I am the Minister of Finance, I consider this risk to be small.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U617	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I now request Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U618	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance of the Riigikogu discussed the preparation for the first reading of the draft 77 at its meeting on 4 November. The Minister of Finance gave an overview of the summary report and the results for 2018 and answered questions from the members of the Commission. Auditor General Janar Holm participated in the meeting, who gave an overview of the opinion of the National Audit Office on the 2018 summary report. The draft provides for the approval of the State's audited consolidated annual report for the financial year 2018, consisting of the annual report, the accounts report, information on local government units and the public and government sector. The report also includes the audit report of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office stated that the annual accounts of the State for the financial year 2018 reflect the state's financial position in all material respects and that the economic result and cash flows of the reporting period ended fairly. According to the National Audit Office, the state budget implementation report for 2018 shows budget revenue of 9.95 billion, expenditure of 9.8 billion, investments of 465.5 million euros and financing transactions of 49 million euros, which provides reliable information on revenue collected by the state, expenditure incurred, investments and financing transactions. According to the National Audit Office, the state's economic transactions have been carried out in a substantial part in accordance with the State Budget Act, the State Budget Act of 2018 and the Amending Act of 2018. This means that the National Audit Office did not find any material errors in the implementation of the State Budget Act. Both Janar Holm and Martin Helme were asked by the members of the Commission, which they also received answers to. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 13 November 2019, to close the first reading, to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur for the Commission and to set the deadline of 20 November at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U619	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 77. That concludes the first reading and sets the deadline for submitting amendments, including 20 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U620	Let's keep going. Today's 10th item on the agenda is an overview of the use and management of state assets in 2018/2019. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: Auditor General Janar Holm, please waitress! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask the rapporteur an oral question when dealing with this item. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U621	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Have a good late night. The National Audit Office sends several dozen reports to the parliament each year, two of which are here today for discussion by the Riigikogu. The first is the audit of the state's annual report, which has just been mentioned by the honourable Minister of Finance. This report relates to public money and other assets. And the second is the annual report on the major problems in the economy and administration of the country. Looking together and complementing each other, these reports provide Parliament with an overview of the use and preservation of state assets. This year's annual report, which I presented to the President of the Riigikogu the day before yesterday, focuses on the health and vitality of the Estonian e-governance. Why such a thing? But because Estonia has made a name for itself in the world as an e-governance. Estonia was one of the first to make the so-called tiger jump in government and public services and successfully went to the digital world. Our e-Governance success history is all about being the mythical Estonian Nokia that has long been sought out. But today, unfortunately, no one wants to be Nokia anymore because it has become a quiet place. History doesn't matter when it comes to development. On the contrary. Famous history and success can feed satisfaction and harmony, but eventually bring stagnation. Today, only those countries that avoid entanglement in technology that has lived up to its own time can sustain success. Life shows that if IT solutions are not constantly updated, information systems will eventually dictate political choices. I believe that perhaps many of you have seen situations in which the necessary decisions are postponed when dealing with the drafts, precisely because it is not possible to make the changes needed to implement the decision with reasonable speed and reasonable money in the information systems. Yes, at times such situations can prevent unnecessary haste, but by nature they hinder political processes. With a certain exaggeration, this situation is also a threat to democracy. A lot has been said about tiger jumping. Tiger is a territorial animal. He knows where he is right now. And our e-Tiger should know that too. Our e-governance is a source of national pride, but unfortunately our e-tiger is somewhat at a standstill. He doesn't know where he is and how big his litter is. Perhaps we do not know what this pride will cost us and it is difficult to get a clear picture of how many and which information systems and databases the Estonian state has. When preparing the annual review, the National Audit Office was interested in the amount of IT investments, as well as the administrative and personnel costs associated with IT. It turned out, however, that there was no such comprehensive review. It was easier to get information about how much money the ministries estimate is missing in IT. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance, together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, should first establish an overview of the actual state of IT expenditure. In the political world, it is, as we know, very tempting to say that the economic costs of public authorities are being cut again. It brings popularity. However, since 2003, the administrative costs of IT systems have been integrated into the normal economic costs of public authorities. And that means that it is often those IT activities that are necessary to keep the systems running that are under pressure, because maintenance cannot be presented as a bright new job. Given the importance of the IT sector, it would be worth considering the possibility of separate accounting for IT maintenance costs and IT investments. If we define very precisely what is and what is not the cost of protection, the same definition of IT costs could be justified in every way. Since the National Audit Office did not find information about the IT costs of the central government, we made an attempt to compile such an overview ourselves. This was only partially successful, but the data were still sufficient to detect cost dynamics. It turned out that in the IT sector, human and administrative expenditure has increased by about 1/3 over the last two years. True, this is mainly due to the increase in the number of IT workers, not their wage increases. In this situation, the growth of private sector wages cannot be countered. In this way, a number of IT offices in public authorities have not been filled and the turnover of the workforce is high. At the same time, an increase in costs is inevitable if we want the e-state to develop and the existing information systems to work. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of new IT developments, the government has used first and foremost the European Union contribution. However, it cannot be used to cover maintenance costs for systems already in operation. Estonia's own tax money is scarce. Similarly, the organisation and maintenance of information systems are not attractive or visible enough compared to the creation of new information systems. Investment in a visible facade brings more attention to everyone than, for example, replacing a decomposing electrical system. Here again the old problem emerges: the desire to constantly offer new and shiny things in a situation where essential basic functions have been overlooked. As an endless circle, new buildings will emerge between the ruins, which will soon be among the ruins themselves. The more we rely on the digital state, the more we must also contribute to the maintenance of the digital tiger. If there were a zoologist Alexei Turovski standing here instead of me, he probably wouldn't leave it unsaid that a tiger spends nearly half his waking time caring for his coat. Otherwise, his health, his capacity for jumping, and his smell would betray him before he reached the target. So is the e-ticket. We can't get away with extra spending if we're gonna keep the tiger jumping. Money is needed both to make current e-services work and to upgrade outdated IT solutions and to introduce new technologies at an optimal pace. In order to create a systematic plan for investments, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications should be given a clearer leadership role, also in terms of monitoring and technological planning of IT developments. Good listeners! One of the components of Estonian e-story that attracted attention is the e-health system. The digital prescription solution and the patient portal are a big step forward. But the e-health project is controversial, shiny inside. The national digital registration office, which was due to be operational in 2008, was only operational 11 years later, in August this year. While the original application of the digital registration office was completed and accepted, the money was spent, but it was not used. And now a new information system had to be developed. Or we could look at a subject such as the ease of use of the eHealth system. Instead of helping patients, doctors need to spend an unreasonable amount of time clicking to match the medical records and get an overview of the patient's condition. A total of 65% of hospitals who responded to the National Audit Office survey found the use of the e-health system uncomfortable. 45% of respondents indicated that they do not receive all the data needed for treatment from the eHealth system. For example, when an ambulance is put on the road to the E.M.O. doctors with information about the patient, there are 24 pages from which to search for the necessary information in a stressful situation. Only four years ago, Estonia's e-health strategy was approved with new and ambitious goals. At the same time, earlier objectives remain unachievable. The question arises as to why, in an area of such importance, the problems known for a long time have not been solved. Why is it that, with the help of political and administrative will, certain issues are quickly triumphed, some problems being solved in the bird wing and in defiance, but that is not the case with other important things? In the case of eHealth, this is not so much an IT problem as a matter of long-term under-management and lack of ownership. Dear listeners, It is true that increasing digitalisation of everyday life will help make services more accessible, information collection faster and systems more efficient. But, unfortunately, it also has its own bad side: it provides a more effective opportunity to escalate stupidity and bureaucracy. In the digital world, it is much easier to ask for information that is not necessarily needed. In this way, an unnoticed click by click will be possible to burden people and organizations more and more in vain. In the near future, the National Audit Office will receive a report in which we analysed the collection of data on welfare. For example, the audit revealed that the Ministry of Social Affairs has instructed municipalities to submit 11 welfare reports on a regular basis in the S-web environment. In total, they have 793 data fields. Municipalities and cities do not need such detailed data themselves, nor do the usage examples provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs itself point to the need for one-off use of many data. For example, it has requested data which have been used only to prepare ministerial visits or to write articles. The Ministry of Social Affairs should urgently exempt municipalities from pointless collections of data. But not only is the Ministry of Social Affairs overburdening the municipalities, but many municipalities are not indebted to them, in turn, to those in need. They ask for information that is already available elsewhere or that is not actually used to provide a service. If, for example, 17 cells were sufficient in one municipality to receive income support, the second was already three times longer, a form with 50 cells. I will give you another example of the convenient possibility of increasing bureaucracy created by the e-solution. A few months ago, an article could be read on the Estonian National Broadcasting Portal, where the Head of the Procurement Department of the University of Tartu described the organisation of mini competitions before and after the development of the Public Procurement Register. In the past, asking for a quote for a mini competition meant that a simple e-mail was sent out, but now the same work has to be done in the respective information system. In the new situation, according to the university, it takes 100 clicks and 50 minutes to organise one mini competition. If the university makes on average nine daily price requests for travel services, this means that the university should employ a full-time clicker to process the price offers of travel services alone. The article also acknowledged the existence of a problem, but added that the Ministry did not see a quick solution. Let them click! Unfortunately, many of the ridiculous bureaucratic restrictions and requirements under which we groan are branded 'Made in Estonia'. If only there was time, we'd talk more about procurement. The National Audit Office is currently carrying out an audit on this subject. For example, two years ago, a new Public Procurement Act came into force, one of the objectives of which was to simplify public procurement procedures. In the course of the audit, it became clear that several authorities do not see this simplification anywhere. It is true that the Ministry of Finance has today started to bring together proposals from the authorities on how to simplify the amended law again. Unfortunately, the draft simplification will not be allowed to reach the Riigikogu until next year. The question arises as to why, for example, this law, which is a burden on the public sector, could not be changed at a speed worthy of the information society, such as the five-day deadline for coordination in the course of agile legislation. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As I mentioned at the beginning of today's presentation, an assessment of the accounts for the previous year is also a traditional part of my review. And in the same traditional way, I can confirm that the country's annual accounts reflect the state's financial position and that the economic result and cash flows of the reporting period that ended are fairly to a significant extent. And just as my predecessors have done in the office of Auditor General on two occasions, Mihkel Oviir and Alar Karis on three occasions, I cannot fail to ask a similar question that Riina Sikkut just asked: what is the benefit of the 2018 summary report on 13 November 2019 when you are about to adopt the state budget for 2020 in this Chamber? Sure, if you do. For at least 15 years, the National Audit Office has broken its head on such a question. Just before the end of the current year, the annual report for the previous year has been approved by the Riigikogu for several decades, both before and during the e-state. In Sweden, however, the financial report is already presented to Parliament in April, Finland somewhat later. However, in both cases, this report can be used to prepare the state budget for next year. In Estonia, perhaps we could discuss what the content of this report should be, so that it would also be of practical benefit to anyone other than future accounting archaeologists. In addition, I think that it is possible to say in a much simpler and clearer way in the summary report of the national financial year what the money was spent on and what it was received for, and what was not achieved and why, really, by providing only the most important information. It should also be considered whether an annual report is needed in this form today. After all, technological solutions would allow the country's economic indicators to be constantly displayed in online mode and to be taken at all times as "pictures" of them. Honourable Riigikogu! Finally, a few words on the state budget. In recent times, experts in the Ministry of Finance have been in the habit of saying calmly about almost all issues and problems relating to budget and reporting that all concerns are solved by activity-based budgeting. But it won't. On the contrary. The annual state budget is increasingly less understandable and informative from year to year. This has been complained to the National Audit Office over the years by many members of the Riigikogu, regardless of whether they are currently in opposition or coalition. The activity-based budgeting, which has been fully operational for next year's state budget, has, on the other hand, provided a completely new opportunity to make the document even more complex. However, the problem is not the activity-based budgeting, where information is presented by programme. Whatever the budget is based on, it must be possible to present it, especially in the digital age. The government has decided to carry out a state budget review. In the course of this review, it would also be reasonable to carry out an audit of the state budget document and the annual report. If decision-makers and the public are able to understand the central document guiding the country's strategic development more easily, this will also provide an opportunity to make better savings decisions. I brought here an idea from spring this year. The current government took office on 29 April, just one month and two days before the deadline for the submission of the country's budgetary strategy as provided for by law. The strategy was submitted within the deadline. Could've been worse. If the government had taken office a month later, for example, because of longer coalition negotiations, then there would have been two days left. It didn't happen this time, but the next few times might happen. In the interests of the quality of financial planning, I think it would be reasonable, in the light of the future, to allow greater flexibility to agree on a minimum period of time from the government to the presentation of a budget strategy, even one month, so that the government can have a minimum time for substantive debates. In addition, we must note that this year, in the process of budgeting, we have set ourselves a goal, for some reason, of new heights to be heroically overcome. The law now provides that in the same timetable as the budgetary strategy, i.e. spring, the government will also have to approve the draft budget for next year. That's the draft, not the draft, as usual. Is it reasonable to make two draft national budgets a year, one in the spring and the other in the autumn? Why is it necessary to work in such detail before the summer economic forecast with the state budget law, as we all know that the spring document cannot be credible and the actual budget will be completed in autumn? To sum it up. The e-star in front of e-Estonia should not only mean electronic Estonia, but it could also mean effective Estonia, Estonia with goals and energetic Estonia. In many cases, digitisation and legislative changes are not needed to combat unnecessary use. Our northern neighbours have proven that there is simply a need for will and action. Just as we are, the Finns are struggling with bureaucracy. That is why the Finnish Government set itself the goal of cutting red tape a few years ago. As they were struggling with the processing of major projects, they undertook a project of real life as a practical test of implementing zero bureaucracy. This is why Äänikosk was involved in planning and licensing processes related to the large industry. As a result, the whole process was completed within nine months. During this period two detailed plans were carried out, environmental impact assessments were carried out and tens of environmental permits were processed, including building permits. And all of that without any change in any law. So the key to success was the will to solve the problem. This experience is now being applied to other similar processes. In Estonia, in order to reduce red tape, we first started to explain the requirements of legislation and to deal with changes to it, while the Finns proved that it was not the legislation that needs to be changed but the attitude to succeed. This attitude and will also serve us in the distant future when no one remembers what Nokia was and why they were looking for him in Estonia. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U622	Thank you, dear Auditor General. You have questions too. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U623	Thank you. Dear Auditor General, Thank you for a very good overview and for pointing out these really serious problems in the IT field and in the management of state expenditure. I'd like to ask you about the costs. If the consolidated annual report cannot be compiled more quickly, it is probably a reflection of the fact that the government, the Ministry of Finance, is unable to monitor its expenditure operationally, which is also presented as one of the reasons for the unexpectedly large deficit of the previous year. Has the National Audit Office noticed such a thing that there is not a good operational overview of costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U624	Thank you for your question. Indeed, it's been under observation. In the spring of this year, the Board of Budgets also drew attention to this particular issue or asked how such a situation could have happened and suggested that the National Audit Office audit what happened and investigate what might be the reasons why this happened. This is what we are working on at the moment, and I believe that I can certainly tell you exactly what these reasons might have been sooner than at the same time next year. And maybe we can make some good suggestions, which should be done so that this doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U625	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U626	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General, thank you very much for this review. I don't ask about a tiger. I myself had the pleasure of participating in the creation of the e-Tax Board. By the way, the e-Tax Board was established 19 years ago and it still works today. But I'm asking about the annual report. You have nicely outlined these reserves-developments here and you can see the data on the liquidity reserve of the central government minus the increase in the whole time, the surplus of the reserve is decreasing. And there is also a generalisation that the central government spends more when the unemployment fund's money accumulates in the liquidity reserve. During the audit, have you identified or identified how much money is actually left, for example, as of 31 December 2018, from the nearly billion-dollar reserve of the unemployment fund? Is that what we were talking about, say, the e-state, I logically imagine that this reporting should exist, an institution that can tell you how much money is actually left in the unemployment fund reserve? Maybe you can even tell me what that amount is, or you can send me the data if you have it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U627	Thank you for your question. Indeed, at the end of last year, the state's own contribution to the liquidity reserve was €642 million and, for example, the unemployment fund contributed 832 million euros and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund paid 148 million euros. However, the euro has no sign of what exactly is the money of the unemployment fund, the sickness fund or the foundations of the central government of EUR 642. But it can be said that, on a pro rata basis, if the contribution of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund was 832 and the state as a central government is 642 negative, the difference is this. It's coming out of there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U628	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, I thank you very much for this objective assessment of the health and development of Estonia's e-governance. The people in the IT sector, of course, have long known that such problems exist, all the more so since methods have been used to develop e-governance, which remain in the age of the race for space rather than in the 21st century. I would like to ask you this: since our e-state is really over 20 years old, why has the National Audit Office not previously paid attention to the development of e-state and assessed whether we are on the right track?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U629	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U630	Thanks for the question. In fact, already 15 years ago, the National Audit Office carried out a rather systematic audit and referred to almost the same circumstances, i.e. the risk that too little resources will be contributed to the development and maintenance of existing systems. In fact, this message has been given 15 years ago and it has always been the focus of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U631	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U632	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General Janar Holm! Given your experience and competence in the public service and earlier in the field of education, I would ask you the question of such interpretation. This report is excellent. It's better to know an objective picture than not to know it. The fact that the number of IT staff has increased has been noted here, but at the same time, labour turnover and vacant posts are a problem. We know that several thousand new people are needed in the IT sector in Estonia, but higher education institutions or universities of applied sciences are unable to prepare them, on the one hand, because there are simply no people who go there to study and, on the other hand, because the need for a market is indeed greater than the ability to prepare. Could you analyze it a little bit or give me your opinion on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U633	Yes, thank you for your question. It is true that the educational system does not catch up with the need that exists in the Estonian IT sector. And the reasons are also the ones you referred to. One problem is often that young people are picked up in their first year. This is certainly one of the reasons, in addition to the two problems you have highlighted, a clear problem. We just graduated from a higher education audit. It is positive that the share of students in the IT sector has increased compared to previous years. It's positive that this trend is like this, but it's definitely not enough. The state has contributed a lot to the scholarships, benefits in this sector. I think there's hope for improvement. But the number of Estonian residents is certainly the limit that will not be broken through. Our need is greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U634	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U635	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, thank you for your presentation. My question concerns the consolidated annual report. Indeed, the year is coming to an end, and now we are confirming or confirming this report here. My question is this: what do you think this is the reason why this process is taking so long? If we give an example of local governments here, there is, after all, a very clear requirement for the report to have been adopted during the first half of the year. Do you think, for example, the state would have something to learn from the local governments here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U636	Thank you for your question. I think it is the question of wanting to do this faster, but these solutions will be found. There is certainly reason to learn from local governments; there is certainly reason to learn from other countries. There is nothing else to do here but set the goal of doing this earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U637	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U638	Good manager! Good waitress! Returning to this 2005 audit, and now it is 2019, the situation is such that it was not known how much it would cost to support this pack of tigers and to acquire a collection, and it is not now, 15 years later. It would certainly be known in the zoo, but how is it not known in Estonia, especially in the so-called e-ticket zoo?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U639	Thank you for your question. The answer is simple: if these costs are not distinguished, they will be very difficult to identify as a whole. One of our proposals, which I also tabled today, is that it makes sense to structure IT costs so that it can be assessed how much we are contributing to this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U640	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U641	Thank you, manager. Dear Auditor General! I sincerely thank you for your honest and meaningful review. But a little bit more specific than e-state. There was talk of a shortage of resources, i.e. both money and human resources, and you also pointed out, in Finland's example, shortcomings in attitudes and targeting, but which, in your opinion, may still be the reasons that we are in a situation that is not really very rosy. Can these reasons be linked to fears about personal data? Could these be a set of topics related to the self-definition of local government? Could it be due to an overly complex public procurement system? Or is it the lack of competence in the public sector and the lack of cooperation between the silo towers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U642	Thank you for your question. I think that even longer than this question would be the answer to all these reasons. One reason is certainly money and what I referred to in the speech is that caring for something is not as attractive as creating something new. These problems often occur when the problem is at hand. It is a matter of attractiveness, of choice, of money. But there are very different reasons in different areas. For example, in the case of the eHealth system referred to, it will certainly make it more difficult to manage the sector because there is still some opposition to change among health professionals. This is often one of the reasons why things are not moving in the field of eHealth. Perhaps in another area it is exactly the same. Perhaps it is a matter of negotiation, it is a question of persuasion, and it is a matter of cooperation. But the main thing is that when the goal is in front of the eyes, I do not think there are any significant obstacles that could not be overcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U643	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U644	Thank you, good manager. Good Auditor General! I, too, thank you for a very interesting and colourful presentation. I hope that next year such an important speech of the year will still be able to fit into a working day, but this time before midnight. Signe asked about the causes of the problems, but I would rather ask what your understanding of what the role of the Riigikogu could be. On the one hand, it is the maintenance of the tiger's coat and it is simply that we must give priority to such administration and maintenance. That's it. But even in the case of e-health: if we have processes that become digital, as you described, new risks will arise, then these will be topics of access to data, patient consent, issues of excessive data collection, topics of ease of use. If the government can decide on the money when setting priorities, what could the Riigikogu do to wake this tiger up and, I don't know, direct it to the yacht, to the tracks?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U645	Thank you for your question. It's good for me to come to the Riigikogu at any time. As an admirer of parliamentary democracy, I am only delighted that the debate is taking place, and I will come here at 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning. Thank you for allowing me to talk here! That's not a problem for me. What is the role of the Riigikogu? The Riigikogu has the opportunity to exercise parliamentary control over ministers. I think that this periodic push and questioning of the state of any information system or why it is still in such a situation is perhaps the best way for the Riigikogu to influence the processes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U646	Thank you. Each member of the Riigikogu has one question in the processing of this item. But the Riigikogu works, if necessary, at night. Dear Auditor General, thank you very much for your presentation. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. Peeter Ernits on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U647	Good manager! Good night! The fact that the Auditor General has been released into our hall at night is excellent, as is the fact that he is ready to come at 2:00 or 3:00. In the Special Committee on State Budget Control, he is a weekly guest and we can listen every week to this 'alternative analysis' once, once on another matter. In fact, the Auditor General, speaking in animal language, was a talk of a tiger, like a wolf in this gang of grass-eaters in public institutions. If it weren't for him, the life of the grass eaters would be quite complicated and the health of the crippled, and death would be certain, and injuries would be much easier. But with the help of a wolf like the National Audit Office, who looks steel at these grass eaters, their health is better and the state's health is also better. When we talk about this e-story, e-tiger, the Auditor General correctly noted that it is actually difficult to support the tiger. We're proud to be on a number of rankings, I'm not even going to count all these places, how many we're in different rankings. You know. All these initiatives, e-elections and everything, X-Roads. But it's really hard to support that tiger. It's easier to get or breed a tiger's collection, but the cost of maintenance is ours, the cost of the state. The money comes from Europe, from the European Union's resources to carry out these projects, or from the so-called collection of this pack of tigers. But we have serious problems with their livelihoods, now to use animal comparison. What did we read out of here and what were we discussing there? On the one hand, there are some tables that show that we're in a good situation, but on the other hand, if you look at the global graph, we're actually in a downward trend. Some of the so-called non-European countries have gone quietly ahead of us. Maybe it's because we've sold our e-Tiger and introduced it to the whole world. However, there are a number of things that attract attention and that would be useful to know. For example, if you get in an ambulance and it's transporting you to the ER, it turns out your data may not be moving so quickly to the ER, and the ambulance staff will have to fill out a 24-page questionnaire before they start reviewing you. This is a pretty high cost and is not likely to have the best effect on your health either. Or the bureaucracy that the Auditor General was talking about here, talking about local governments that are burdening those in need, particularly in the case of welfare. Some municipalities ask around 50 different questions, while others ask at the same time 17. A large part of this data, even a fifth of it, comes out of the analysis, has in fact been duplicated and could be obtained peacefully without questioning the person in need. So the Auditor General was talking about the basics here. And he suggested how to get an overview of what is really going on, how much it takes to invest, how much to support. All these data are actually hidden away. Similarly, the state budget, as well as the current budget, which the controller emphasised, has become increasingly incomprehensible every year, regardless of who is currently running the country. Officials run, write a prepared state budget, and if people like us, or even the minister, want to understand what's out there, where something's hidden, they have to work evil more and more every year. This concerns all of us, whether we sit on the left or right side of this hall or in the middle. It's the kind of important thing you have to try to tame, this tiger, the official pack of tigers who're writing us the state budget. But the morning is coming, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-13_U648	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Thank you to the Auditor General. That is what we have discussed on this item.
