ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We begin our work, we begin the session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 1st working week. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic initiates two draft laws and submits 11 draft decisions of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending traffic law relating to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the Riigikogu when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the Weapons Act, the State Fees Act and the Strategic Goods Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by Mart Helme, the Minister of the Interior, when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. Fourthly, the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia draft. Fifthly, the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq'. Sixthly, extending the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in the performance of the international military operation Inherent Resolve. Seventhly, the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. Eighthly, the use of the Riigikogu decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to it by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations'. Ninth, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. Tenth, the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali. By the eleventh, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Force." By the twelfth, extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan. 13th, extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik when dealing with the aforementioned 11 draft decisions of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U3	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have adopted two draft laws and 11 draft decisions. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. Now the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the founding meeting of the Trade Union Support Group will take place in this Chamber, the convener being Oudekki Loone. Now, please, the presence check! 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U4	On today's agenda, we have two points. The first item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, entitled 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic to make Estonia's initial and school education uniform and in Estonian'. Before we go to this debate, I will briefly present the procedure for dealing with the draft. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask a question to each of the rapporteurs. Representatives of political groups and committees can participate in the negotiations and a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the agenda. First item: First reading of draft No 2 of the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to the Government of the Republic on the uniform and Estonian translation of Estonian basic and school education. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Let it be said at the outset that this bill is not about studying the Estonian language or developing the Estonian language. It's the real thing. The Estonian language has been learned for centuries and the development plans of the Estonian language have been made several times, but it is not enough for all people living in Estonia to speak in Estonian, think in a similar way and have sufficient contact with each other. That is why, I believe, society in general has now come to the understanding that Estonians and non-Estonians must begin to study in the same language, in the same national language. The purpose of this draft is to give the government the task of organising the transition so that the Estonian school and kindergarten are unified and in Estonian. It is certainly not our task to ourselves, but it is indeed a task for the government as an executive and it would make sense if opposition parties first and foremost gave this task and initiated it, but we have also received support from coalition parties during the previous Riigikogu. Well, with one exception. We recall reading the same bill presented in 2018! The EKRE and the Fatherland claimed to support this. Very much has been claimed by the Socats to support it. True, only their representative in the Committee on Culture voted in favour of this draft at the time, Mr Jürgenstein, who, unfortunately, is no longer here with us today, but he will certainly follow this debate and keep our fingers crossed. The current draft differs from the one at that time in that we have supplemented the explanatory statement. We have written down problems and the vision of authors here more than in the previous one, which does not mean that it is somehow binding on this Riigikogu, this government. The text of the draft itself is simply to give the government the task of organising it, even without stating the exact dates. All the substantive visions are, in my opinion, relatively exhaustively set out in the explanatory memorandum. Most of us here in the Riigikogu probably don't know how it works. I was surprised yesterday at the Riigikogu Diner when I heard a colleague say that this bill is so stupid, is that how the task is assigned to the government? But that's how they do it. The activities that fall entirely within the competence of the Government are given to him in the Riigikogu as a very laconic task, which has been done in the past. We have simply forgotten the good practice that the Riigikogu makes political decisions, not technical or very specific, but those that are fundamental to society. Personally, I believe that the integration of the Estonian education system into the Estonian language must be the biggest reform of the Riigikogu. This is the most powerful thing we can even think of here, unless we come up with the stupid things that, unfortunately, have already begun to think about here. We propose in the explanatory memorandum, as I said, a number of keywords and actions that the government should pay attention to, in particular, to the Riigikogu, to show that we are serious about the matter and that the accusations of superficiality in the previous procedure were simply dishonest and demagogic. I call them. First, the school network. We have a very ambitious plan for restructuring through investment in the school network. It should be rethinked that we are no longer building a parallel school network, but that we are really building a network that is economical, which allows teachers to be paid a decent salary and given them a full load. One good way to do that is to connect schools. This, of course, concerns teacher training. It can be said infinitely that there are no teachers, but if we don't train them, they really aren't. And if we don't do this mission, there won't be. The good news is what Mailis Reps said in the Narva debate: that a competition has even developed for class teachers. But a class teacher is a person who teaches all subjects in younger classes. If we start with younger classes, this is exactly what Mailis Reps wouldn't have wanted to say: it can only be done. He further led to confusion between terms and topics, but the Centre Party has always been against this and has shown its political interest in preventing the transition. Of course, it provides for financial planning, but it is not really a cost, at least in the long run, but it is a revenue, because connecting the school network also means economy. I do not agree with all those who say, by supporting this matter, that Estonia cannot afford two school networks for financial reasons. No, we've been able to do it financially. However, we cannot afford it for spiritual reasons: there is a sense of segregation in society, which, according to the Human Development Report, is getting worse. One part of Estonia's people, the Russians first and foremost, live separately, live worse. And it actually starts with the education system. Our education system is restoring this problem. And its effect extends to the poorer health of these people. Forgive me, but that is the case, and all the voters of the Central Party are actually in a worse position. Or, let's say, through the middle of the line, all of 'everything' is the wrong word. But the voters of the Centre Party have, in fact, suffered worse living because of the policy by which they are isolated. And of course Estonian society needs, in the interests of stability and even in the interests of Estonia's security, that we do not live so separately and do not think so separately. I'm sure you're gonna need to review your educational material. Aadu Black has already commented here yesterday that there is no study material and everything that is not yet available. In fact, the educational resources in both systems, Estonian and Russian, mostly overlap. And there's no need for a very big trick. However, there are certainly a number of aspects that need to be re-evaluated, and I think that there is a very positive need to be re-evaluated. This not only makes things more economical, but also, for example, an alternative to e-learning, which we should be able to offer from next year, is also an excellent answer for those who say that they do not have a language environment. The language environment itself has been created for decades. And while we didn't even hear foreign languages from the radio TV, the languages were made clear. All I had to do was ask. We have an Estonian-language media, we have an e-learning resource in Estonian that can feed everyone in this field. We need legal changes! Again, the army of lawyers is primarily on the executive. Mart Rannut's estimate is that seven laws need to be amended. We have read them: there is the pre-school child institution law, there is the basic school and upper secondary school law, there is the VET law, there is the private school law, the Youth Work Act and the Adult Education Act, which should probably be adjusted at some points. It is probably necessary to adjust the national curriculum as well as the examination arrangements so that everything will be in Estonian. It is, of course, a matter of its own, but first of all, it is important to ensure that children who have performed a language immersion or an Estonian-language kindergarten can reach Estonian-language schools immediately. Such matters must be immediately addressed. It is the government that can organise involvement and cooperation with stakeholders and institutions. Let's call it a few. These are scientists, universities, municipalities as principal schoolmasters, of course parents, administrative bodies, student organisations. Certainly, this whole process requires specific forms of transition, depending on regions and opportunities on the ground, all of which are scientists and executive authorities to promote in cooperation with different organisations. School management. During a number of governments, there has actually been a bill designed to enable the state to intervene in school management. Ratas' governments have prepared such a bill. The point is that the principle of the Constitution that the state is responsible for the harmonisation of education throughout Estonia is not guaranteed if the school network is highly dependent on local governments. School management is undoubtedly not as uniform as we have, for example, learning outcomes. Learning outcomes are world-class in Estonia. But there are areas where the municipality has let things go so badly in school management that if the school results are poor, they still let their buddy, the party partner, continue to run the school. So I think this bill should also be passed as a law. It is in the Riigikogu proceedings and it should be reviewed precisely from the point of view that there is no favour for clandestineism in schools. It is known that school leaders and local governments even whistle here and there to the regulations of the Language Inspectorate and some political parties also give attention to these schools. I would like to point out once again that the content of this draft is not to learn the Estonian language. It's still learning in Estonian. Please don't confuse these things! In debates that are held over and over again, and also in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister is always willing to speak how important it is to begin teaching the Estonian language in Estonia. It is like a very steep initiative, but it has always happened. We are still talking about language separation from kindergartens, from schools to schools, resulting in tensions, segregation and untapped social potential. Of course, the Russian-speaking people, who have been encouraged, are in a particularly poor position to assure them that they have some special right to study in a language other than the official language. Developed in Europe, however, Europe has generally developed, and it is still a public money school network in the state language. You have to remember that. We are a very big exception in this respect and a very strange exception. The Russians do not have equal opportunities. I would also recommend that the main spokespersons in the Russian language take this fact into account in the context of education. Of course, the exception of cultural autonomy must also apply to the Estonian-language school. Of course, there must be foreign language learning; of course, opportunities for learning the mother tongue and literature must be well guaranteed. But what we're offering isn't some 60:40 ratio. This compromise, which was made for upper secondary schools, has not proved to be very successful in Estonia because, in the case of upper secondary school students, segregation has already done its job in the school system, and starting to study in another language at that age is barely taking place. So we're not talking about 60:40 relationships. I think that the upper secondary school must also be fully Estonian-speaking. A few words about the schedule, as we imagine it. First of all, an immediate change must be made in kindergartens. Every day there should be an Estonian language class. An Estonian teacher should be found in each group. And there is really no place in Estonia where that would be impossible. The kindergarten must also ensure the readiness of the Estonian-language school. Then we have possible alternatives. One option is to move on by school level, starting from the first grade: I, V, VII, and moving on in three years. But if it's too ambitious, which is likely, then you should focus on starting from class I. And in Class I, as I noted, there are class teachers who can teach all subjects and who can always be found in Estonia. There's a competition at the university for a class teacher's specialty, and we can handle it as a society if we focus resources a little bit more. If schools are in trouble, it is always possible to come up with flexible exceptions. A separate topic for North-East Estonia. Mart Rannut spoke of this exception as setting aside North-East Estonia. I wouldn't say it should look like a set-off, just focusing on a separate resource. And it is important to know that the state is in Estonian, both in national language and in the language of instruction, that in this case it will certainly not be possible to focus on the effort of North-East Estonia. It is said that there are no teachers who speak Estonian. It is, of course, a question of how students can imitate a person who is unable to learn, even though knowing that learning is beneficial, the teacher is accompanying the profession. The role of such teachers in school is, of course, questionable. But starting with Class I, you can adapt. Within nine years, each teacher can adjust or retire. There's a natural teacher rotation at school. A few more words about the history of this enterprise. Having kept this portfolio for about 17 months as a party, this 17 is a very popular number! We had to admit that those who have kept this portfolio for 17 years have not made any preparations for connecting the Estonian school network. And that's really something you had to come up with yourself. At the beginning of 2017, we came up with this idea at local government level because this year local governments were elected. And we were hoping that maybe we could get Tallinn to talk first. It didn't work. At first, we got to be bullshitted. But all these debates that have been held later show that political parties have started to recognise the problem, and last year's debate here was very encouraging. Let's hope it gets even better that the one vote that was missing last time will come. The Centre Party is missing that voice this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U6	Thank you. There are a number of questions for you too. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U7	Thank you very much. This is clearly a very important draft. But my question concerns your understanding of the position of the political parties in the government coalition on this issue. In fact, Helir-Valdor Seeder has said: 'Isamaa has set itself the goal of a transition to full Estonian-language learning, and this is also the firm intention of today's coalition of government. " He noted that otherwise the Fatherland would not have joined such a government. 'It is absolutely clear that the education system must go to the Estonian language,' said Mart Helme. 'None of the three partners has any disagreements. ' I did not find any clear message from the chairman of the Centre Party on this subject, but from Mikhail Kõlvart, vice-chairman of the Centre Party, who said in an interview to the Russian portal Baltnews that the formation of a coalition with Isamaa and EKRE was the only way for the Centre Party to maintain school education in Russian in Estonia. How do you figure all this out now? What do you predict about the vote of the government coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U8	Thank you. I'm sure a man will pay for his word. If the political party presidents have made a vow, if they have written it into their programmes, if they have even supported this bill in the previous Riigikogu, they cannot claim that the situation has changed. So we have allies in this hall, 12 + 19 votes, and that's actually enough. We will hear what Mr Jevgen says about this with his own question, then perhaps the voices of the Centre Party would also be there. I don't think they want to be alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U9	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U10	Thank you. Good Jurgen! After all, the question of the Javier basically showed what you are politically trying to achieve with this draft. You want to put Fatherland and EKRE in a fork to take responsibility for your words, which I have absolutely nothing against. I guess you have to take responsibility for what you say, and I'm sure they'll show you their true face. But I'm asking you about what's important to me, and I hope it's important to you too. Last time I abstained from voting in favour of your draft precisely because it was superficial enough. But now I'm looking at the current text. You've generally been debating different details with me, and you've disagreed about studying together. This transition chart, which I see here, clearly speaks of the artificial transfer of today's Russian-language schools to Estonian-language education. In the following year, the year after the following is a beautiful graph of this. However, there is no real word here about the model of a school that is studying together, which should be the real solution. How is it, then, whether Estonian and Russian children should study together in some schools or whether Russian schools should simply switch to Estonian-language education, as is currently stated in this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U11	Thank you for coming up with a question. In times of extra, but even in times of extra, the goal can be decisive. I saw a political battle on this issue, but not what our disagreement is about. On the Narva debate, I have repeatedly pointed out that there is no point in kicking the debate partner, who is basically in the same position as you and me in this case, and then repeating his views at the same time. We do not, in fact, have a fundamental disagreement, and it is not possible to read out the sentence from which this draft consists. And I explained why this bill consists of only one sentence. This leaves an opportunity to name things with different names, set different deadlines in other formats and make longer or shorter preparations. I recall, Evgeny, that if we came up with this idea in 2017, the burst you gave at it has not been given in Estonian politics before. There was so much evil in one sentence, a rusty cannon opened fire on its own people, whatever those sentences were, I'll find them, and maybe I'll send them to you. I haven't read such funny sentences, I think, even in a press release, before reading in Estonian politics. All the grudge, all the anger, and all the acknowledgment was in there, basically it was a fight with your people. But in conversations between us, we have come to an ever-increasing understanding that we actually agree. You shouldn't use words like 'unreasonable'. And if it's still unreasonable, please explain how it makes sense. I've never seen a debate that makes any difference between your views and mine. What's the point of our bill? Of course, the sharp separation of Estonian and Russian schools must be completed. We are not so naive that we offer the majority of the Riigikogu the idea of putting schools together and children together. That's probably not what's going to happen. In any case, friends, neighborhoods tend to go traditionally to certain schools. And schools have their own culture. But the first thing we have to do is break this wall. And, of course, the perspective is that we no longer talk about Estonian and Russian schools, we talk about different schools. These relationships vary from one region to another, but the work of the entire government, local governments and experts must be directed towards abolishing this wall, both spatially and spiritually. I don't like the word "learning school," I think it's political bellerism. I don't think it's a term, but maybe I just haven't noticed when it's become a term. I think it's a nice party phrase, and I'm not gonna use it myself. But the point, of course, is that if you're in school or class together, you don't think it's Russian there, it's Estonian. People go to school, study in Estonian, and the nationality doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U12	Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U13	Dear Jürgen Ligi! I would like to ask what studies are based on the Reform Party's draft and where it is possible to look at in-depth analyses of the risks to both students and teachers, as well as to the entire school network. And don't you think that, in this form, the bill would rather offer a pure experiment or an experiment on our children?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U14	Ah, that was the answer, and there was a question at first? The subject of the studies is dealt with in the explanatory memorandum. Scientists and universities must be involved in this whole process. As far as experiments are concerned, experiments have been conducted here for a quarter of a century, much has been tried, but the results are very sad. The basic ideological support, although in our own initiative we were based on other sources, is the Human Development Report. You will read it carefully, present to your electorate in Lasnamäe what data about their living conditions, working conditions, health and life opportunities are and what they come from. These factors start and are re-produced in the education system. That's the problem with these people. They do not need one good person to instill in them that they are secondary and one good party to say that he stands for them. I think what is offered in this bill stands for them ten times as much as you have actually stood for the Russians as a nation in your life. I'm sure you've stood up for people, but because of the separation that the Russians have enjoyed in society, they have fewer opportunities in life. This is the basic content of this draft just as well as the pathos, if you like.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! With an analogous, perhaps seemingly analogous draft, given yesterday's government coalition, does the government coalition wish to divert attention from the real problem that is reflected in the title of the draft that we have tabled, or is it even plagiarism? And do you think that this is also possible, or do you justify the fact that the government coalition did not really support this draft in the Committee on Culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U16	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U17	Thank you. I have not, in fact, heard any substantive criticism of this draft, that it is somehow simple, etc. I explained that our bill is in exactly the form that the government is entrusted with. And the form of giving the government a task is never such that the coalition gives itself a task. Yesterday, government departments gave the government a mission. I don't know if the government is broken, if you don't have any support. Well, I don't know, Estonia's task has already been to start working on the development plan of Estonian language. How is this suddenly a new assignment? I understand that the previous Ratas government also decided to make an Estonian language development plan. I can't name that date right now, but it was, I guess, the end of last year. And why is it now necessary to come here and share tasks with the remote control itself? I'm sure it's to distract you somewhere. Similarly, the Commission that has been carried out here is a distraction. First, the electoral promise of the Fatherland and EKRE that the Estonian school would become Estonian was withdrawn, and some things were written into the coalition agreement about learning the Estonian language. And then a special committee was formed here from the teaching of Estonian and was put in charge of it by Mikhail Stalnukhin, a well-known champion of the Estonian language, right? By the way, he's an Estonian teacher, but he's still fighting for a Russian school. It's like this in itself, let's say, blocking and replacing in my eyes. But I may be lost, and these people will explain how the government has always opposed them. They have wanted such things, but the government does not want to learn the Estonian language and the government does not want to develop the Estonian language. In that case, of course, it is understandable that Parliament obliged the government. We could have collected our signatures, we would have. Let the government get to work! And by the way, a very good theatrical performance was yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U18	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Can you describe in number how many schools this reform would affect, how many classrooms and how many students?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U20	Thank you. Yes, I can. But do I? Because the whole point of this bill is that it is the job of the executive to keep that record, to have that information and to act accordingly. Do I have to be the person the coalition ambassador asks about? I'm not really your secretary or government secretary to share that information. However, I can say that 12 municipalities are covered. 12 municipalities with Russian schools and kindergartens. Nine of the twelve are Russian and Estonian schools side by side. Why? I don't know. But you know. You do not support this bill. Onward: 22000 students are covered. Check it out, I might be wrong. It's possible there's a little more or a little less. As far as I know, 13% of schools are involved. But what does the opposition party know? Maybe his records aren't official. Russian-language day-care centres have 105 children in total of 11000. Can't we offer 11000 children in kindergarten one Estonian language lessons a day? Mr. Kruusimägi, I think you are willing to go to some kindergarten yourself, you are a great patriot and speak to them once a day. There are 6800 children in Tallinn and 3200 children in Ida-Virumaa. So, power to work! I started doing the executive work, now the government could move on from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U21	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U22	Thank you. Good waitress! First of all, for the sake of the verbatim report, our conversation at the Riigikogu can continue, that this bill cannot be supported, in my opinion, because it has not been submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings in good faith with a desire to improve the future prospects of the children of the Russian community, but rather for internal political reasons. But that's it. My question is this. I cannot imagine how it is possible to reform such a large-scale Russian school without involving the Russian community. Do you agree that parents in the Russian community have the right to have a say on the language in which their children must learn? And maybe you could explain how you have involved the representatives of the Russian community, listened to them and taken their opinion into account when drafting this bill. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U23	You're welcome. I'm not an edgar nouveau growing up, I always scratch my ear when there's such an apprehension and such an assignment. This is a very bad political culture. I'd like you to come out of there, too, you have the potential. Yesterday was the same day: I had to read Professor Black's questions where you were before, what you've done before. These answers are all given. After all, a draft with such content has been tabled, a debate has been held. In the case of the Russian community, we take the facts of the Human Development Report first and foremost into account. We take integration studies into account and consider that Parliament cannot communicate effectively with the Russian community as well as with the executive. We talk all the time. But in order for this communication to really be formal involvement and coordination, there are executive procedures. They work very well in Estonia, by the way, in a routine way. Try it! Go to work shelters for some ministers. That's what they do. And there is certainly great potential in your electorate to use it. But to say that we haven't presented this bill in good faith, God forbid! How can you attribute it to me or to us? It's cynical. Don't give us anything like that! We have this bill in good faith and our good faith was confirmed by the Human Development Report. In the case of internal policy, the problem really is that when parties become hypocritical, they will have an embarrassing moment, but I am referring here to the programmes of the parties. I do not know if it is an internal policy when the electoral programme of the party has promises to the voters, but they have supported it and they have held it right. Can't we come help them? Do we all have to say yes, we have the same programs, but we're not going to come up with it, maybe it's an internal policy? You know, depoliticize this policy once and for all, right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U24	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I particularly liked the sentence in your answers, where you referred to the fact that in future we will not ask each other what their nationality is and in what language someone is speaking at home, but we will communicate in Estonian, just as the Estonian state might be appropriate. But what do you think might stand in the way of progress with this bill today and finally its adoption? Are we in the way of the real wishes of the people in this Parliament? I am referring here to people with Russian native language who have developed a very strong desire to put their children in Estonian kindergarten and school, to study in Estonian, but Parliament and the government do not want to take this into account. Is there anything wrong with our communication, or do we no longer understand society adequately, even though scientists have referred to it in their research?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U26	Thank you. I don't think there's anything to stop progress from happening. If the voter is allowed, it would be nice to keep the voter's promise. This opportunity has been presented on the tray and no one wants to be officially hypocritical: no one wants to record in the electronic voting system that I am being hypocritical. I think they understand what's going on in society. But the party's interest is also well understood, and it cannot be carried out in a different way than through the party's interest. For the Centre Party, the Russian electorate has, of course, been a monopolistic place for collecting votes, but I would point out that this monopoly is crumbling. It is likely that voters will understand that it is not that the party and the government always ensure that they are protected from some kind of wicked world, but that changes in life are needed that give them more opportunities. Today, parties and governments are also obliged to give them opportunities from the education system onwards. We can't talk about adult education all the time. And once people shape their attitudes, we will probably never be able to find enough money to learn the language. But the kids get it on the flight. So I think communication actually exists, but a lot of people have shut themselves off from it, closed to a closed information room. Unfortunately, this also applies to some voters, because they have been trained in this way since kindergarten.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U27	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I have this philosophical question for you: are you a Voluntarist? Do you think if you really want something, it'll be filled with the only snap, without taking the facts into account? I am a member of the same committee on the development of the Estonian language that you criticised. We already know that dictionaries, textbooks, methodology, control and the number of teachers are completely inadequate; we cannot quickly switch to full Estonian-language learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U29	Thank you. Fingertips were kind of a philosophical category here. I see that with a finger snap, important things may be on the table, I do not want to use the word, to kick away, but the problem of Estonian segregation is not. As former head of finance and education, I can say that this is a structural reform that actually saves resources and allows them to focus on the content of education. The fact that we have two separate school networks is also a financial problem, but above all, it is a mental problem. Mental consolidation is ultimately a saving for society, not a cost in everything. Your party has used the worst words at the Russians' address. But it is clear that this social background, created by segregation, gives birth to bad social manifestations, including crime. Again, we can save on internal security. We have seen what happened in 2007: people were completely in their own world, did not feel as part of society and just started to break up. It's definitely from childhood. Childhood is a time when you have to deal with a child and where you do it elsewhere than in the education system and through a single social network. I haven't used that word yet, but social networks are actually the main object of this transformation, not so specifically schools. Just social networks.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U30	Natalia Malleus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If the reform takes the form you propose, how will you find the 200 teachers who are missing today in Ida-Virumaa and who will be able to teach in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U32	You'll find them. Your party's in the government right now. The task is assigned to the government. But as I noted, there are actually many teachers in Estonia, but almost half of them do not have a full load. And I also noted that class teachers who teach all subjects can be used from the first grade, and there is a competition in class teachers' training. If we start first grade, in three years these kids will be in fourth grade. By then, the faculty will also be redesigned. Certainly children already speak Estonian, but teachers also learn Estonian. I am terribly disturbed by the fact that learning for a teacher must be a religion and certainly is, but we attribute to them the inability to learn by themselves, to want to know the Estonian language and the desire to pass it on to the child. They have the will. Let's give them support, give them another signal! Let us not always give this signal, which is also given in schools in Tallinn: that the Language Inspectorate is a language inquisition and that Estonian does not need to be taught. At all times, it is as if it is necessary to ensure that a part of the electorate is isolated in the interests of a particular party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U33	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U34	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I listened to your report and how you answered the questioners' questions. You used words like this: come, must. I realize it's all very beautiful and nice, but I was haunted by an idea. You've been in power with the Reform Party for 17 years. Why did your conscience wake up when you were in the opposition, and you realized that school education needed to be translated into Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U35	Thank you. You said you listened to my report. Well, don't lie to me for an introduction, so I'm about to lose my temper, and I can be rude when I'm in a bad mood. But I always remember that shortcoming, and now I'm being polite again. You've been in power for a quarter of a century with the whole gang that's in power right now. A quarter of a century! EKRE received Parliament in front of me, in 2015. We were in opposition. When the People's League was in the government, he didn't move the flower. Before that, your partner was the Fatherland. Things were different, couldn't do everything, Russian troops were inside. That was the problem. I guess I couldn't do it then. But for the last four years, EKRE did not even mention such a thing as education in Estonian once. In 1999, Mart Laar and the Patriotic League came to power. I did not notice that he had spoken about education in Estonian. The Russian troops were out, but nothing. The Ministry of Education's portfolio has been in the hands of the patriots and the Centre Party from 1999 to 2015. Nothing was basically done but put this thing off. When I was the Minister of Education, I really did not get the inspiration from this house to turn the Russian-speaking school into an Estonian language, whatever the reform might have been called, perhaps to unite the Estonian school system. I was inspired to deal with children with special needs and other similar issues, and so I actually started to think that non-Estonian mother tongue is also a special need that needs to be approached differently. And that took some time. Like I said, for 17 years, you've kept the briefcase of the Minister of Education and haven't moved. We held for 17 months and started not only to think but also to move. If the Minister of Education does not bring this issue to the government as a problem to be solved, then ministers in other areas may not perceive reality. But above all, as I said, this is a matter of society's readiness. Since the question was personally put to me, I can tell you one moment or, rather, two moments that were decisive. One was like this. I went skiing, came back late and listened to the show 'Krillitsa Estonia'. The Russians spoke. And they said we had to finish this thing, the Russian school thing. This was the most decisive moment for me: it is doable. The second decisive moment was a TV show where I was debating the subject. Most people agreed. There were also scientists and the only ones who boldly disagreed were representatives of the NGO Russian School in Estonia. You know what this connection is? This is the Kremlin's extension of the hand read the kapo book! This is what the kapo is talking about when he talks about Russia's influence. I found that, therefore, we have one marginal force that is fighting against this reform, the other all being thoughtful or supportive. The Human Development Report, which I felt appeared in May 2017, was also a sign to my mind. Again, why didn't we do it before? That wasn't the human development report before. Migration research, so and so, needs to be dealt with all the time. It was noticed that the Russians were trying to put their children in Estonian kindergarten, and the reason has been clear. That's the most important thing! So much for involving the Russian community, to answer the question of whether we have involved the Russian community. Please: studies are included. 71% in a specific study replied that they would like to put their children in Estonian kindergarten. But what are we talking about? We'd like to have a hundred percent chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U36	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U37	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Jürgen Ligi! Looking back on the same subject, there may be great surprises for a more experienced political observer. The transition to Estonian has been discussed for years, and I will bring some of the extracts I found online using the search engine. Eesti Päevaleht in 2000, the title 'The opposition blocked the transition to education in Estonian'. In the Riigikogu, due to opposition opposition opposition, the Central Party and the United People's Party were then able to adopt a law amendment, which would provide for a transition to Estonian-language learning after long disputes. Secondly, an extract from the Riigikogu's website since 2004: 'In information class, Prime Minister Juhan Parts emphasised, answering the question of Riigikogu member Andres Herkel regarding the transition to education in Estonian, that there should be a flexible approach to solving this problem. 'The Parts also said at the time that 'preparations that would allow flexible use of more Estonian in upper secondary school are in progress'. Third: Sirp, Ilmar Tomusk's article, which appeared almost a year ago. It tells about the transition of the Russian school to education in Estonian and that this has been said since the beginning of the 90s.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U38	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U39	And today, too, this bill finds a lot of problems. It's too general...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U40	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U41	...and too shallow. Why the transition to education in Estonian has so far been in the same state that no solution has been found, no common language and...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U42	Ladies and gentlemen, one minute to ask the question. It has been a minute and a half now, but it has still not come to the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U43	I asked you a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U44	We will try to respect the agenda and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U45	Yeah. I asked you a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U46	Very good! The very educational question was, in fact, and I think that the time was effective. I also have the impression that this subject is something new. This history has not been before my eyes because it has not been a dominant issue in society. We have actually thought for decades that this situation is hopeless and has not cared about this part of society. These people are somewhere separate and in worse shape, but that's what they want. Now society has actually changed a great deal mentally; such major social problems are under much more attention. I would like to google right now to read to Mr Ossinovski the sentences he said in 2017. You sounded like a "pink cannon" and a "fight against your people" and such phrases in one sentence about seven things, one uglier than the other. And then I saw what else he said. He had such a grumpy opposition to Estonian education all the time, I have to admit. This one sentence reflected that even he, who should master the subject very well, had opposition. But it went away. In a couple of years, it went away, and it just shows how society's readiness can change so much that the person who called it names two years ago said to each other that it had to be done. He's told me in private that now is the opportunity. But why does he say something else in the debate in the hall, says he doesn't support, without saying what he doesn't support, I don't really understand. He understands the problem of substance. But in general, it's a matter of interest. Everyone wants to show that he is the spokesperson and that he is the one who has blown up the problem. Whatever they're offering! If this continues, there will be another 25 years of such gentle talk, and the gap between language groups in society will grow. The Human Development Report says that the situation has gotten worse. That's the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U47	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Good billwriter! Your explanatory statement contains a summary sentence: 'As the history of delaying education in Estonian is a quarter of a century long, we also outline the authors' idea of the timetable as a critical topic. 'The question is, if your party has been the leading party of the coalition and you yourself have been the Minister of Education, why has this scheme not been implemented before, and the second part of the question is how many teachers would be needed to implement your plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U49	Thank you. When I came into politics, the classes had already begun and the Fatherland, your coalition partner, had been in power. Ask them. I already did. If you'd listened to the class, you'd have gotten that answer. The Russian troops had been inside, in 1995 they were no longer there. However, in 1995 the international situation was probably still such that we did not want such an argument; we were not in NATO or anything at the time. I therefore explain, for example, why EKRE, in power in 1995-1999, did nothing. Then, in 1999, Mart Laar came. And here it makes me wonder a little bit why since then, the Fatherland and the Centre Party have been looking for excuses not to do this, criticizing this bill, such initiatives and failing to give votes. That's a bigger question for me. We were a party of government, a party of the Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister does not have a legal option to do so; he has to achieve this in any way; he does not bring the drafts to the meeting of the government; he does not submit the drafts on his own to the Riigikogu; all this must be done by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. For 17 years, the Education Ministers of the Centre Party and the Fatherland Union did not do this for some reason, but they had a strong reason for doing so. When I became Minister of Education, I didn't have any preliminary work, which in general is always there. You go to the ministry, you get this know-how and you get to deal with it, you ask, you do, you decide. There was no such preparation in that house. But in the information room with the parallel issues, I got and got my party. My party, who had not had the Ministry of Education portfolio, was inspired by the fact that we held this profession for 17 months and came up with our draft for the first time in the context of Tallinn in early 2017. And that's the answer. But if you now want some comfort to the Centre Party and the Fatherland regarding their ministerial activities, then in a way they are all good people, and they were listening to society. In society, this debate was still not so overwhelming and the studies that would have encouraged were not much. For a very long time there remained the perception that the Russians are separate, they want to be separate and then let them be separate. But sociological research is pretty sad, we can't accept it forever. In the meantime, the words "glass ceilings" and "traps" went the same way. This could be read in the Human Development Report. Well, I generally despise when groups of people are incited to have one in front of a glass ceiling all the time and some kind of trap where they always fall into. In fact, they must be encouraged to make their own efforts and to find resources so that the state can make an effort for them. And that's what the bill is for.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U50	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Jürgen Ligi! When introducing the coalition agreement and later addressing the Riigikogu, the Prime Minister has repeatedly emphasised how his government stands for those who have so far felt that they have not been stood up for. The Human Development Report confirms that parents of children with a better socio-economic background from other mother tongues place their children in a kindergarten in Estonian, an Estonian-language school. Who's supposed to stand up for the others?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U52	Thank you. I understand that this should be the government's day-to-day work, but I don't know what the Minister of Education does, for example. When we were at the debate in Narva, I now presented the fact, rather than commenting on the fact that the results of the PISA tests of Estonian Russian-speaking schools are one year behind those of Estonian-speaking schools, and that is the problem. Mailis Reps categorically denied that no, no, no, no, that's not the kind of thing. In front of the big hall, Minister of Education! Of course, it sounded like a word against a word. But I'm not wrong about that, it got checked out: it's worse, I don't make that up. Just playing stupid isn't standing up. If worse fates, poorer education are being re-produced, it is certainly not a stand-off, but the government should do so, and these problems in education should in any case be among the top 3. And if the government does not do so, the Riigikogu will assign tasks to the government. That's what I'm guessing right now. In the Riigikogu, tasks are not given to themselves, as happened yesterday, to begin studying Estonian in Estonia. Fantastic!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U53	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Language skills give people a competitive advantage and Estonian language skills are a clear competitive advantage here in Maarjamaa. The growing desire of Russian-speaking families to place their children in groups of Estonian immersions, regular Estonian-language kindergartens, as well as Estonian-language schools demonstrates understanding of this fact. It is a growing trend that makes perfect sense, knowing that communication skills are key to a rapidly changing world. In this Riigikogu, on the basis of the electoral programmes, the words spoken in the Riigikogu Hall and the ideas expressed in the media, there is support for the draft that you are presenting here today, I think, nearly 60%. What could prevent this missing one vote in the December 2018 draft procedure from being added today? I really hope it adds 51 votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U55	Thank you. I cannot express the support of society numerically, because if there is so much information noise, right, with regard to learning the Estonian language and everything else, this society can be quite noisy and depreciate an initiative that I think is elementary. It's done every day, it's done today, it's done yesterday. The chairman of the Cultural Commission is going to talk about things that have been answered five times as a major science that society listens to and the professor speaks. But where were they before, right? Consequently, it cannot be done because it was not done before, it cannot be done again. That was the academic wisdom I heard yesterday. Well, that's all one noise that makes it look like they have something to say, even though they really have nothing to say. This impression also shapes the general opinion on the draft. I've been trying to explain this subject today, sooner than ever, we all are. We have prepared this bill together and hoped that some would be ashamed. We have here the chairman of the Fatherland, I think at least two Vice-Chairmen of the Fatherland, the Secretary-General of the Fatherland, who has all promised, right? We have EKRE here, most of them were not in the previous Riigikogu, but everyone has promised to write programmes. What else do we believe if not the word of men? So let's not be pessimists. We do not have a single vote, we have 75 votes here in the Riigikogu. 75 votes! It is a pity that Raimond is so conservative in this matter, otherwise his voice would certainly be, because he is now, fortunately, out of this environment and is definitely thinking about things that could not have been done before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U56	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U57	Honourable waitress! You've been trying to tell us for an hour that everyone else is guilty. I think the aim of this draft is right in itself, but while we have not managed or wanted to implement it so far, it is still absolutely incredible to hope that it will now happen in a few months. I understand that this bill actually has a completely different objective: to put some of today's government parties in a fork. But I'm still going to repeat that question. Your party has been a prime minister party for over ten years, a leading party in the government that has put together government coalitions. If you really had the sincere desire to bring education and school into life in Estonian, why didn't you insist on this at coalition talks? Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U58	Thank you. Based on your school patronage, tell me how you feel about a student who hasn't listened to a sentence in an hour and then starts asking again. What are you gonna do to him? Are you gonna send him out of class, write a note, score a grade? What are you doing? Or are you mad? I don't make any of them. But this issue has been discussed several times here. It is particularly unfair to say that I say that others are guilty. I've been talking about society's readiness all along. I have admitted that the Fatherland had its reasons, the EKRE, the People's League had its reasons why they didn't do it. And the briefcase of the Minister of Education was held most of the time by the Fatherland and the Centre Party, after all, for some reason. And it doesn't matter whether I blamed or didn't blame you, I didn't blame you, I just justified it, but it's that there's now a way to use the readiness that exists in society and change things. I don't know if you're just gonna change things that have already been changed, and you're gonna go over the same change all the time, or there's still a moment when the change can be made, and then you're gonna do something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U59	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U60	Good waitress! These answers are already very familiar. A quarter of a century has been laid, but the Reform Party, your Reform Party, has been leading the government for 12 years and, as I have heard, the problem is that good coalition partners have not let go. But you have won the elections in large numbers, and yet you have done nothing with this proposal. In the meantime, you said the Russian troops were inside. During Andrus Ansip and Taavi Clothes, were the Russian troops also inside that they couldn't move? As I understand it, it is, of course, very irresponsible to come up with such a beautiful proposal now, not in power. But still explain how things are inside the Reform Party. If the Reform Party puts the government together at this time repeatedly and...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U61	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U62	...you say the Minister of Education didn't allow it, then what's going on inside you? It probably didn't matter to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U63	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. I have to admit, you haven't listened to a single syllable here. You say you know all the answers, but all the answers are wrong. You haven't listened to a single sentence, you're repeating the same stupid question that has already been answered here. I have not blamed any other coalition partner, no one, I have not said I was not allowed to do so. I've said I don't know all the circumstances. For me, for our party, this topic came on the agenda because me and Maris Lauri were able to keep the briefcase of the Minister of Education. Undoubtedly, this is the way new thoughts come. And I think, however, that if the education ministers of the other parties never brought it to the government in front of me, I have never seen it, then they had their reasons. It was probably about the debate and the level of preparedness in society. That's what I actually said. So if you still want to know the answers, get to know them first. Don't tell me if you know yours, you'll know the answers I'll give you. It's not an accusation, it's a statement of reason. So, please, that's the way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U64	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Waitress! You said something that you should immediately find an Estonian teacher or that teachers will adapt or retire if they do not. Such careless and foolish statements show very clearly how much our Russian-speaking compatriots and their well-being really matter to the initiators of this draft. Political points are simply obtained at the expense of minorities, using our beautiful mother tongue, Estonian as a malana, to say that you are not really us. It's pretty sad. And there is no word in the explanatory memorandum about how this draft has been negotiated with our Russian-speaking community, who should actually decide in the democratic state and in accordance with § 37 of our Constitution in which language their teaching takes place. It's actually a decision of the Russian community. Could you explain in more detail and clearly how this process went after all? I hope you actually did. Whom did you meet with, what kind of educators, which rectors, which institutions? And what did they think? Do you have any sociological research into the opinion of the Russian-speaking community?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U66	Thank you. Now come down from that barricade, throw your red flags aside, and put this Russian embassy memo aside, which says that our constitution allows a person to choose the language of instruction. The meaning of this sentence has been negotiated at the Supreme Court level since the beginning of the nineties, I suggest it was the Supreme Court ruling of 1994. This provision does not mean that foreign language schools are maintained by public funds. It doesn't mean that! Read this and leave the Russian embassy text out of this hall. The inspiration of this draft comes from the Russian-speaking community. Repeat, from the Russian-speaking community. That's the only reason it ever happened. The Ministry of Education did not provide more inspiration than through the topics being served. And that was an unfinished job, that the Ministry of Education hadn't been prepared. I think the ministry's experts in the field must be so much ahead of time that they are also preparing something formally, but there was so little preparation that it did not come up on the agenda. And who else will be asked for it again, will be able to bring drafts, initiatives to the government if not the Minister for Industry. It doesn't have to be the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has to deal with 10,000 areas and there are things that do not appear on the agenda at the right time. But maybe it wasn't possible to connect the education system before, it is now. Perhaps all of this has been the result of very precise planning. And there's no point in picking those phrases out of context. 'It must be done' is the responsibility of the executive, it is an imperative, it must be done, it must be done. But it's very thoughtful doing. It's reckless to say, "No, no, no, no." Its description is available in the Human Development Report. Pick it up, put those memos away, and you'll understand what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U67	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U68	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Estonian-language school education is undeniably crucial. However, given that a good waitress has also been the Minister of Education and kept this portfolio, a slightly more meaningful draft would have been expected, not just a declarative statement. Teaching children whose native language is not Estonian is undoubtedly important and still requires some preparation. What is your assessment of the current situation? How many of these specialists do we have, how many of them would actually need to be prepared each year and how many of these specialists would be ready to work in schools as early as next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U69	Thank you. I don't think you were really expecting this bill. You say you would have expected a different bill. Why do you even expect me to do that? Why don't you expect this from your ministers, your government, your party? I think that's the introduction that's already got pissed off. Second, before you ask, listen! In general, it is wiser to always ask questions from the debate, not to take them on paper prepared in the group. This question has already been answered several times. And in my report, I repeatedly mentioned that flexibility is what the legislator must enable the government, what one opposition party must offer to other political parties to have a decision taken. There is a lack of flexibility in the precepts of things that, indeed, are not encouraged to carry out more detailed research in the year. There are many descriptions of the general situation, I have mentioned them here, but they are all such data as I have emphasised, which is the competence of the executive. The authority of the executive! Legal analyses, resource distributions, school networks, we do not have to answer these questions. I said that to one of your party's questioners from the very beginning. I do not have to do these things for the government, nor do any other member of the Riigikogu. We don't have to say these numbers, but I know it's possible. You were not in the previous collection, but there was a separate debate on this issue. Mart Rannut, of whom I have great respect, speaks frankly on this subject, claims that this will be done in five years. Whatever the exact number of teachers are experts saying this, not members of the Riigikogu. The members of the Riigikogu make a political decision. Five years may be too optimistic, the minimum draft option is one year, and of course we must start as soon as possible. The reasons why it's easy to start in first grade, I called it. There's a competition for class teachers, and again I'm relying on the Minister of Education's records. He said so. I believe him, at that point I do. He said what he didn't have to say, and I'm using it. So he was honest at the time, but he has not been honest at every moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U70	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Good Jürgen Ligi! On September 1, the first class of Tammsaare School began in Pärnu as an Estonian language. Much has been said here about the fact that the Russian community gets fewer opportunities than they have Russian schools and so on, and whether this is a special need, etc. The problem came out very clearly, however, that the Estonian community is simply not prepared to delve into the Russian-speaking environment, even if the Russian community is actually prepared to accept the situation that their school must become an Estonian-language school without bans and orders. And here's my question: what are the three most important levers of power in your vision for the municipalities to make this transition smooth? What are the very real activities to help at central government level?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U72	Thank you. Thank you for the inclusive question. In fact, it was easy to predict. That Narva's apology, Pärnu's behaved so well, can only be commended. And the fact that it comes with such a problem that I don't know if the word 'community' is appropriate, I think Mart Nutt would have been upset if I had said 'community', but I don't have a better word right now, the community still remains a little separate. This is a very practical problem, a very predictable problem. I was also talking about friends here, school culture, that's all there is in life. But the main lever that we can now declare is, firstly, a political decision to give the government a task. If the government really says it's gonna take a little longer, and if it's not gonna start in Class I anytime soon, then we're gonna have to accept that, but I think it is. Students from Estonian schools... 'Teachers' I actually wanted to say, but they can also be assigned to schools. For example, one problem now is that even if there is a immersion in kindergartens, these children are still put into Russian school out of inertia. You should put your hands on something like that right now, tell them that this kid is going to another school, not what he thinks he's going to do. The municipality has the opportunity to direct. Of course, there are also all kinds of movements that the education ministers know: 'A fascinating school' and 'Young School' and 'Affordable School', and I do not know what all the healthy organisations are behind. It is also a bit of a social movement, for example, in Back to School people who have authority to teach in schools are able to do it very interestingly. Maybe we could use a little exercise and a little tutorial, but some of us have teaching papers. A little rust down, and there's gonna be some performance training here in the course of this job. It's a community venture. This is not the kind of thing where all solutions are known in advance and everything is there. On the contrary, the problem is that many things are missing, and without political decision it will not change.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U73	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Such important issues require the opinion of specialists. Who are the authoritative linguists with whom you have considered the school reform and obtained the assurance that it will succeed with such a timetable? I stress, with such a timetable. Please do not stay in general terms and mention 4.05 linguists, along with information on where to read their protocols.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U75	Thank you. Oh, my God! In our meetings we do not protocol, we are in this sense a relatively liberal party that does not record, does not record, but we will meet. But this issue has been dealt with in the Riigikogu in the format of the debate on an important national issue and, to name one scientist for whom I know he is qualified as a linguist, it is Mart Rannut. His presentation was what coincided with our party's view of 100%, so we only rejoiced. Read Mart Rannut's report. We have also made small private meetings with scientists in the preparation of our programme. Private ones because, in fact, scientists are quite reluctant to be invited by a party. But we've made these meetings. You can see that it is uncomfortable when there is too much party line in the meeting, so I will not name these names. But look and read this verbatim through what was said there, what your party said, and take it as a voting guide. You and these scientists will be able to explain later, they will praise you. Philologists are fully convinced that language needs to be acquired in the process of education in general, not so much through language classes. Firstly, language classes would make it harder, although they are of course also necessary. And secondly, the name of this thing is not language learning, but the integration of social networks. It's a community merger, it's not philology. Professor Mart Rannut has been interdisciplinary in this matter, so I wouldn't discuss it with linguists in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U76	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U77	Dear colleague Jürgen Ligi! Has the idea of a full transition to Estonian-language learning been compared to international experience? I am not talking about Latvia, I am talking about Spain, education in Irish in Basque Country and Catalonia, in the United Kingdom. I understand that I would like to say that the historical background is different, but for some reason, in these countries too, especially in primary classes, there is still a mother tongue education, the mother tongue is also taught at higher school levels. How do you feel about this idea in the context of an international perspective?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U78	I take very well this idea, the idea of our party, from an international perspective. This is based on international experience, based on the principle that education in public schools is basically in the national language. Of course, Spain is more complicated with its historical urges, isn't it, and in the details I wouldn't tend to go along here, I would certainly be wrong about something, but basically the starting point is the national language. The level of autonomy is indeed different from region to region, but you would not want Russian autonomy in Estonia. Thank you for this Narva debate, it was really nice to see who really wants to talk and who wants to talk. But, yes, international experience is, of course, one of the backgrounds of the matter, and the people with whom we have consulted are holding it more than the members of the political groups in this Chamber, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U79	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U80	Thank you. I'm confused, and I actually wanted to ask you, Jürgen, if you share my amazement and confusion. I don't understand what's going on in the world anymore. For years, I was used to the fact that when the topic of Estonian school education was up there, Russian politicians spoke the most against it. The better Estonian they spoke, the more they opposed it. Yana Toom was a good example. And now all of a sudden we're in a world where we can see that the Fatherland and the EKRE, I predict, that we can't get any support votes from them on this bill. EKRE sees a Ukrainian construction site around every corner who comes here to speak Russian. The Fatherland talks all the time about the importance of Estonian language. Well okay, the Fatherland has made a bit of a mistake here before; in the previous government, the court was allowed to apply for legal aid in Russian as well. But can you explain it? Is it simply such a thirst for power or have they fundamentally changed something, which is why the Estonian language is no longer so important to these parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U81	Thank you. But how can it be assumed that they are doing the wrong thing? I think they still support us and that we have those voices. They've promised it in programs, they've said a man's word, maybe even a few women's words come in on the EKRE. Viktoria of Ladynskaya's Fatherland, for example, strongly supports it; she has repeatedly said so. The Secretary-General of the Fatherland has supported this draft, rather a similar one, which was much more general. This experience helped us to be a little more talkative in our explanatory memorandum than we thought practical at first. And the chairman of the Fatherland has allowed us to do so here, isn't it, the Helme family has promised it? Are these parties really broken? I wouldn't give them the word that you've been implying here, the devil, in your strange, hostile, suspicious speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U82	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U83	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Jürgen Ligi! I have before me the results of the voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic to make Estonian initial and school education uniform and Estonian' from 4 December 2018. And I have not been in the Riigikogu myself for a long time now, but when I listen to today's debate, I am really amazed how many of the members of the Riigikogu who voted in favour of this bill then are going to fire here today as if they did not know the importance of this topic and did not support it nine months ago. Just a simple question, you're being blunt: what do you call this change of heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U84	Thank you. I haven't seen it, literally, I haven't seen that change of heart yet. I believe in human goodness, honesty, and the word given. Including Evgeni. If he tells me that he can finally do it, I think he'll come and do it. And there are no syllables in this text that could disturb him, no syllables. It is specially made as sterile as possible for any'stained cannons' and other such phrases so that it cannot be attacked or caught by any hook. Why did Evgeny, who we talked to in Narva's debate, all the time, except that she was pushing me verbally? I think he's gonna join it. In any case, 75 votes will come. After today's substantive debate, questions to which answers have been given... After all, the Centre Party is also a thinking party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U85	Siim Pohlak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U86	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! You didn't want to respond well to your colleague, so I will ask you again. I would still like to hear the names of the specialists with whom you have discussed this plan and whose assessments you rely when you say in the draft that it is possible to do so on such a schedule. The Estonian language is, of course, crucial, but I think that, in such a struggle and haste, it can do much more harm than good. That is why EKRE is a little critical of this draft. But I'd still ask for names. I understand that all the protocols are secret or not at all, but tell me the names. Who are the experts who have shown you the green light on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U87	So the EKRE can fire and clean the apparatus? I don't agree, I don't trust you. I'll be honest. And the exact same attitude can be seen in the experts who met us. I've met them myself in private. The various members of the group have met people. But to say, listen, EKRE, you know, these and these. You make lists of them. You've come here to destroy, you've come to let people go. You've got to be kidding me! Such questions are rude. But it doesn't matter at all. Read the minutes, the public debate, read the public debate here in the Riigikogu, what these experts said. Watch what people say on TV. I may be able to refer to TV shows, but if I were to start referring to meetings with the Reform Party, it would damage them in the current atmosphere. No kidding. We no longer have a free society where people are not afraid for their own destiny and are not directly threatened. You call yourself a deep country and pry them. It is not a fictional fear; it is a reality that is now realising in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U88	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U89	Thank you, chairman of the meeting. Thank you, dear waitress. If you listen to a respected waitress, we regrettably hear again, speaking about something as good and as right as our official language, which really should have established itself in kindergarten, school and the street, everywhere, we hear here again and again this derogatory, tagging, arrogant tone, with which you draw away all your potential partners, who we are all here, from you. I understand you have a certain problem with the representatives of coalition parties, don't you, because you're no longer in power, but now you're even hitting your social allies. How do you imagine that after all this, someone would like to cooperate with your party in the first place, even though the objective is understandable to all of us? If, now, the government is finally ready to move on, why are you jogging again and demanding that it is your methods that should be, it would be, be that these are the right methods, how must we proceed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U90	I heard here a pure-bred ad hominem argument and signs of arrogance and no one wants to cooperate with us. What was the question, anyway? You gave me an evaluation. I am actually speaking to Evgen in my uniform, I am sorry, I am actually speaking on behalf of the group, but since the report is by name, I shall soloise on this subject whenever possible so that we do not have the impression that we have a big disagreement. We don't really have that disagreement. I really don't. And the same way at Narva's debate, where we last debated this subject, we got along very well. There's no such feud between us. I'm just reminding them of their views, pointing out similarities, and it's not tagging in any way. This is a search for support and encouragement. But every person has their own style and your style is to characterize a talker.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U91	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U92	Thank you. Dear waitress, I very much share your concern about learning the Estonian language and I very much hope that all governments and future Riigikogu formations and current compositions will take this much more seriously than has been the case over the years. But I wanted to ask you, in this context, that the educational arrangements are largely on the shoulders of local authorities, i.e. that kindergartens and schools are maintained by local authorities. Long ago, these state gymnasiums came, a few years ago, and this is only the top of the iceberg. We see different examples across Estonia. The regions are different, of course, but in the town of Rakvere, which I love many years ago, yes, at some point it was certainly a somewhat hot debate, and with the involvement of different parties, the community agreed that the city of Rakvere does not have to hold a Russian gymnasium, and today all schools and kindergartens are in Estonian. But for example, the city of Tartu...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U93	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U94	... the capital of education, where the Reform Party has held the mayor's chair for several years, continues to maintain Russian-speaking schools and kindergartens. Why has this happened and what can be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U95	Thank you. To be precise, I was concerned about teaching the Estonian language only in one context, in the context of Estonian-language learning. I stated that learning the Estonian language is not enough, there is a need for education in Estonian, first of all. This is the one that I think you were wrong about right now, not on purpose, but by mistake. Most of the time in this hall, it is deliberately misguided in order to take the subject aside. The question of Tartu is still a matter of local government, and I am naturally not satisfied with it if there is... We're going, by the way, to Tartu on what day? The day after tomorrow, and I'm sure I'll ask them what's going on. Firstly, I am not familiar with everything that has taken place in Tartu regarding the education system. And a little bit I can admit I don't agree with everything either. But the municipalities where Russian schools are separate, as I said, are only 12. And they probably need a political decision in this Chamber. Nine are those where schools are side by side. Tartu is apparently the second among them, next to Tallinn. I do not know how to explain these compromises in Tartu, but in coalition governments, it is often said that someone is opposed. And then they put the topic aside. I remember, actually, I have been reminded that in 2002, the first thing that was to form such an interim government was to sign a coalition agreement with the Central Party that Russian education had nothing to do with it. The Centre Party also played a similar role in the emergency government of 2005 in the sense that it was the only government that could be formed at the time, and 2002 was the same story. In that case, some issues will be left to rest. The composition of the Tartu Coalition suggests the same possibility, but maybe it's the mayors, maybe it's the councils. I'm sure I'll ask, and I'll ask. I don't think Urmas Glass would agree with our basic positions. It is a matter of how much and when anything can be done without a national political decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U96	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U97	Thank you. Good waitress! I've been listening here to the questions that the representatives of the power parties have been asking about the movement of flowers and God knows what. I very much appreciate your optimism, which you still seem to have about the final outcome of this bill. But it seems to me that the government union does not really have any desire to actually solve this problem, and the Minister of Culture has also recently admitted the same in the ERR. Yesterday an alternative draft was handed over to smoke cover, which speaks about the development plan of Estonian language. I am wondering here whether there is, in fact, any substantive obstacle to supporting both of these drafts. The development plan of the Estonian language must also be dealt with, there is no doubt about it. But this does not in any way prevent us from giving a clear signal that we should switch to Estonian-language education. Do you see that both drafts can actually be supported if there is a real desire to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U98	Yes, symbolically, we could not support this draft, which is very difficult to call an alternative, that we are going to teach the Estonian language, that we are going to develop the Estonian language and that we are writing development plans. In short, this confirmation of history in the present is certainly not the thing that the Riigikogu should be dealing with. Certainly, the Riigikogu, the coalition of the Riigikogu, should not give themselves tasks from the Riigikogu's remote control, so that they do, we have done so far, so do you. But let's look at that text. After all, what was read yesterday from this remote control was that it sounded serious and loud: let's keep doing it. In any case, it is not normal for people to come to the Riigikogu to preach to themselves the duties of the controller. But why should we object? Once they've done it, we'll support them. But this bill is certainly not an alternative, because it talks about teaching the Estonian language, which is already being done every day in Estonia, and it talks about the development plan for the Estonian language, which I think has been done every five years and was done in our time. Then why shouldn't we keep doing this? I have no record that the development of the Estonian language has ended and that nothing needs to be planned anymore. They'll do it!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U99	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. And now I ask Aadu Black, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to apologise in advance for not being able to do such a hoax and tagging and trashing, as we have just heard, because I am presenting a report from the Commission and the labels have not been taped in committee, the trash has not been dealt with and the matter has been dealt with quite narrowly and soberly. Emotions were considerably less than at the same time maybe in the press. But closer to it. Indeed, the Riigikogu Committee on Culture discussed this draft on 4 June 2019. Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Heidy Purga, Katri Raik, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Jaak Valge, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi were present. The meeting was chaired by Aadu Black and Commission officials were also present. There was no Helle-Moonika Helme, Signe Kivi. In order not to burden you with every detail, I am already telling you that the Commission's mood was constructive, sharp differences of thought in the fact that it was an extremely important subject matter did not exist. And so was the main part of the discussion on the history of a good or bad subject, because the new composition wanted to know very precisely what had happened in this area earlier, what had been done and why the same draft was already the third time in the Commission. First of all, the author made a presentation by Heidy Purga, who dealt with the content of this draft. And when a good colleague asked him why this matter was rejected in the previous composition, the answer was simple, concrete and clear: the reasons were both substantive and political. It was then discussed whether the removal of the bill at the end of the previous Riigikogu was political will or planning. I think I'm gonna have to explain that to the current corps. Indeed, according to the schedule, we were able to put it on the agenda at the final session of the composition, only the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act says that the Riigikogu participates in the administration of the state by proposing to the government to organise the executive in this area. This is not a legally binding decision, but a politically binding one. But another sentence was important: the political commitment of these decisions to the government is also limited to one parliamentary term. And we would have been pretty funny if we had adopted this bill on the last day and said that today was still in force, but tomorrow it doesn't matter. Of course, things are different now, we started. We were talking about a number of other details. Indeed, Mr Raik was interested, pointed out that there was also a need to negotiate with target groups, and recalled that the transition to education in Estonian was already discussed in 2007. Such observations and discussions were perhaps also important when the draft was launched with the French lyceum, the English College, the Jewish school, the German gymnasium and the Russian lyceum. There was no reply to this at the time. And the story ended with the decision to submit the draft to the Riigikogu plenary session by 10 September. The Commission's chairman was appointed rapporteur or co-rapporteur and there were no differences of opinion. Now, if somebody asks me a little bit about the rule, saying that if someone asks, because probably no one is asking, and then I shouldn't answer it either, but all right, I promise myself one sin, if now someone asks me what went through the previous debate all the time, how is the draft that was introduced yesterday and the current one involved, then I, for my part, would like to congratulate the authors of this draft for one good thing: the subject was prioritised and acted upon. And the authors of yesterday's draft probably feel that the Reform Party's draft had a fertile effect on them in their work. On behalf of the Commission, I have no more to add. Unfortunately, I cannot begin to develop an emotional and poetic discussion in this role.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U101	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U102	Thank you. Unfortunately, however, you were able to present a number of emotional signs, first in the introduction and finally in the story of fertilisation, which is a very Soviet phrase. You spoke for a long time about how the previous Riigikogu could not do so. We tried twice. But what is the present justification? In yesterday's commentary, I think you said you couldn't do it because the Reform Party didn't. Do you do only those things in life that have already been done or some things that have not been done? If it hasn't been done before, is there a reason you can't do it again, and that's all your justification right now? Your speeches in the media and today are built on this logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U103	I'm in a bit of a difficult situation. I will first ask the President if I can start a personal discussion in response to questions in the framework of the Commission's co-report. If I may, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U104	Generally speaking, it is still up to the Rules of Procedure to talk about what was said in the Commission, but a certain creative moment is, of course, allowed for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U105	I promise myself a little creative moment, and I will indeed say my own opinion. In fact, the Riigikogu can solve the same issue according to basically different models. There are two options on the main scale: revolutionary or evolutionary. Revolutionary is when someone commands to be, to be, to be, to be broken, to be built up. It is evolutionary to actually build and create prerequisites for a long time. The third is, of course, the method of stagnation, how much is said and nothing is done. I look back in history. So far, the method of stagnation chosen as the minister of Jürgen Ligi, member of the Reform Party, has been used to deal with language learning and Estonian language issues. I well remember our discussion in spring 2016, when the Reform Party had done something, had announced a project by the Ministry of Education, which was won by one of the Püssi flower shops, who had to solve all the issues of Estonian-language learning in Russian schools. I also have this text with me, just in case that Jürgen suddenly wants to know, in addition to which the minister announced that he did not have to deal with a few details and that public procurement was not his question. It's a stagnation method. The Bolshevik method that we know a lot about history is "let it be." I will not compare that in 1938 Russian, like Jürgen Ligi, was written off on terminology and said that Russian was spoken in all Estonian-speaking schools from September 1st, that would be a far-reaching comparison. But it's still that it should be and that the substance is not infiltrated. Then there is the evolutionary method, if you have to step by step to take on the challenges that will be solved. Apparently, this is the version announced by the government itself or presented yesterday by the coalition showing evolutionary progress. By the way, this evolutionary method should be particularly suited to the Reform Party, not to the revolution, but to the path of reforms. For some reason, however, the bolshevist tactics have been chosen: from tomorrow's day be like this. That's my assessment of it. But as for our friendly discussion with Jürgen, Jürgen first claimed that he had not blamed anyone. I didn't. I didn't. That's his style. You can be accused if there is some kind of addressee, but there was no addressee. What he said about Mikhail Stalnukhin... Oh, that body language was enjoyable. What arrogance and contempt! Sorry, that was not the Commission's position. It was, by way of exception, allowed a little bellerism or emotion, we almost agreed with the manager that it might be a little bit, but not much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U106	Jürgen Ligi, is it a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U107	The waitress named my name, so I have the right to object.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U108	You have the opportunity to submit a reply in the negotiations, not in the round of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U109	Got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U110	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Lord Black! I offer the opportunity to come back to what happened in the Commission. I don't think you mentioned the result of the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U112	The result of the vote was this: to direct the draft to the large hall. Period. No one protested.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U113	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U114	Thank you. Good Lord Black! I do not have much of a question with this bill, because I know that this is the only right way to move forward with Estonian-language school education in Estonia. And I am also authorised by the Association of National Minorities, which includes people of different native languages, but their common language and school language are Russian here. From there I draw my understanding and confidence. My question comes from the draft that was passed yesterday, which is not bad in itself, because the development plans are still being drafted (it even surprised me that it is not yet ready), they are being reviewed and updated from time to time, just as it must be with the development documents. But the question is, if this draft has been passed on yesterday, will you now propose, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, that the Riigikogu stop the work of the Committee on the Development of Estonian Languages, because it is a duplication and a waste of money if the government is to deal with the same thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U115	It's awfully difficult for us to keep today's subject exactly in this box, as required by the regulation. Now, when we talk about the box, the bill that was handed over yesterday is not on the table of the Committee on Culture. He's been handed over to the Riigikogu, and he's coming here. Does the Honourable Vilja think we're not discussing this? But if you ask me, Aadu, what decision do you make, then, for God's sake, I don't know. Let's argue, discuss, analyze.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U116	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, From the very beginning, you said that you were a Commission waitress. But knowing you as a wise and academic man, I dare ask you how you will vote for, for or against this draft decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U118	Oh, that's what you see on the board, of course. We discussed and consider that, in a situation where there is a more concrete draft reflecting real activities, we will not vote in favour of today's decision. At least I don't vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U119	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U120	Thank you. Good Aadu! You have been chairing the Committee on Culture for some time, and this issue has been discussed repeatedly. In the context of this debate and, let us say, looking back a little bit, have you, as chairman of the committee, identified what the Centre Party's position on this issue is more broadly? Not on this draft issue, but on this issue more broadly, is it stagnating, evolutionary or revolutionary? [[A. Black is starting to answer.]] I'm not done yet. For example, your vice-president Kõlvart has said that the Russian-language school must be preserved, but Chairman Jüri Ratas has said that Estonia is constantly moving towards education in Estonian. I haven't identified the representatives of the revolutionary view yet, but maybe there are some. Do you know how to enlighten people, what kind of, say, fighting elan your party is?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U121	Well, the Committee on Culture, yes, has not discussed what the Centre Party thinks and says, but, and possibly this is due to a report by a group, it is possible that I myself have consistently and widely supported it on the party's board and have worked to ensure that the evolutionary path prevails and not only on educational matters. There's been a little too many revolutions, and they've done a little too much evil.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U122	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U123	Thank you. Of course, we could continue this debate on whether the transition to Estonian education in 2019 can be revolutionary at all or whether it is an expression of a very slow evolutionary path. But since you yourself highlighted the draft which was passed yesterday in your reply (in my opinion, still as a smokescreen), I am essentially asking the same question that I put to Jürgen Ligi. There is no contradiction between these two drafts, yet they still talk about different things. One is talking about setting a specific deadline, that is the draft we are discussing now, and the other is talking much more about the development plan. These are different things. What prevents both of these drafts from being adopted in such a way as to be sure of progress with the development plan, and it would finally be clear that education in Estonian will be transferred from kindergarten to kindergarten?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U124	Again, I am, as they say, in a twofold situation, because I am a Commission waitress and I am trying to be almost correct in this role, but the questions come about what you think you want and what you do. On behalf of the Commission, I can say that we will certainly do what has been said yesterday, and for my part I will repeat what I said before. Personally, I have no objection to this bill because he somewhat electrified the atmosphere at a time when perhaps less was said about this subject. Although I almost take back my words, because before the elections there is a lot of talk about things, in a busy atmosphere, as is currently somewhat less, but this bill certainly has a vivid effect. However, in real politics, in real life, it will be more helpful if we make plans for measures and stick to them, not to launch a competition, saying after that, oh, did we announce a competition, as I described earlier in one episode.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U125	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U126	Thank you. Good waitress! There's been a lot of talk about history here. I would like to ask about the future, and it is from the children's point of view. My personal experience is that my previous working life has taken me abroad three times and I have gone there with my family. All three of my children have studied in English at different levels of school without speaking English before. Did you also have a discussion in the committee when you discussed the ability of children to start school in Estonian, the ability of children whose native language is not Estonian? If you did not discuss this in the Commission, what is your personal opinion on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U127	Oh, you asked a dangerous question in that sense that you shouldn't ask a historian about the future by mentioning history. The strong will is to talk about all the roads that have been tested so far, especially the dead ends that have been and the evils that have been involved. I myself believe that you have to hurry at a moderate pace, but you have to hurry. If you say so personally, now I'm about to take my guard and I'm about to burst out of pride as a young grandfather, I recently took my granddaughter to school in Tartu for the first time. It must be said that it was interesting to watch his classmates receive instructions in Estonian from their mothers before school began, but the last most important words were still spoken in Russian. Three times you can guess what the class collective is like and how they will go on in the Estonian-language school, of course. But it was a personal situation that matched my wishes and aspirations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U128	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U129	Dear Professor Black, I congratulate you as a young grandfather. But the question actually continues on the same subject of Tartu, where you have been Chairman of the Council for a long time. I ask about the school, which my colleague Indrek Saar asked about earlier. In Tartu we have a Russian-language elementary school and a good language immersion school with 12 classes. Why is this basic Russian school in Tartu, where the Reform Party is in the coalition, still in this way? Why, for example, is it not connected to a single language immersion school with a very strong director? Why in a city like Tartu, where there are very few Russian-speaking people, is this school preserved in this way? There would have been room for evolutionary development, it would seem.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U130	Urmas, how do I answer now? I think I will say that, at least at some point, the Centre Party has not put a brake on it, so that developments do happen, and I am delighted with the very strong language immersion school with you. So this is really the result of our joint efforts that Tartu has done quite well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U131	Now, who has the next question? Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U132	Good manager! Good waitress! Well, the long hauling of pig skin is obvious. But has your committee also discussed the organisation and public funding of teaching the Estonian language to old people? This report, what do you want to do with it? Pig skins are transported for both children and old people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U133	The subjects of language learning and the subjects of teaching the Estonian language have indeed been raised several times in the Commission, not always formulated in such a way that it is the subject of the transition to the Estonian language. But it is precisely what you ask whether old people, etc., have been the subject of lifelong learning on several occasions, though many times with other programmes. In particular, this financing document has not been discussed, so far not yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U134	Now, the next one is Urmas Kruuse. Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! With regard to the issue of the Social Democrats, too, I can make a small remark because the honourable Aadu Black mentioned my name. I think one of the reasons why there is also a basic school in Tartu that is considered Russian and, in fact, already a language immersion school is precisely what the honourable Jürgen Ligi mentioned that a certain part of society was not ready. For the sake of integrity, it should be recalled that an association such as the Russian School in Estonia was very active in Tartu, so that, for God's sake, there would not be a immersion. But I would like to ask the honourable chairman of the committee why the honourable chairman of the committee should not invite both the members of the committee and the members of the Riigikogu to vote in favour of this draft today and to proceed with the draft that has been drawn up, which concerns a possible development plan for the language.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U136	Thank you. I am now consciously and deliberately taking this opportunity that the Commission rapporteur has the right not to answer the questions either. We are not accustomed to providing answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U137	No further questions. Mr Commission Representative, thank you. Now is the time to open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups and committees will be able to participate in the negotiations on this agenda. So, the first is Mr Pohlak on behalf of the EKRE Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike those mentioned here, we stand in the Estonian Conservative People's Party for pro-Estonian Estonia. When Estonian is no longer spoken, the Estonian people are also lost. Therefore, everything requires a thorough and systematic approach to Estonian-language education and, of course, also to Estonian-language education. There are, of course, good things in the Reform Party's draft, but unfortunately, it is an ax job, a fine and extremely precise work, which is figuratively done with a hatchet. I'm surprised you haven't thought this through any more. Among you is the world's finest fine-tuning man and the world's best minister of education, you could have done this job a little bit more precisely. In my opinion and in my opinion, one of the consequences of your draft is most likely to be the Russianisation of a number of Estonian or Russian-speaking children in Estonian schools or even the associated Estonian children. Looking at the deadline for the changeover and the timetable, you will clearly understand as drafters yourself that this plan is not real, there are no teaching materials, there are no teachers. You know very well that the lack of teachers is a serious problem in Estonian schools as well. Where do you get a few hundred teachers in the next few years when the deadlines in your bill are set? It's not real. Coalition parties have started developing a systematic and thought-out plan to strengthen the position of the Estonian language in both school and the digital world, to develop early childhood education in Estonian and, as a natural development, to move forward with the next stages of school. Yesterday, the Estonian Central Party, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Party of the Republic of Estonia presented a proposal to this effect, on the basis of which the Government of the Republic will deal systematically and thoroughly with the issue of Estonian language. Consequently, I propose that the Reform Party's draft be rejected, and I call on the opposition to support the continuation of the government coalition's plan in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U139	Thank you. Kaja Kallas, please, on behalf of the Reform Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U140	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to these questions and these attacks, it began to seem that many members of the coalition have this game that education in Estonian is a game and a joke for you. When the Reform Party comes up with its draft on the transition to education in Estonian, you think you're gonna play us, you're gonna turn in the bill so you don't vote for the Reform Party bill, and then it's as if nobody can say that you really don't want to do anything with the Estonian education system. But this is misleading the public, and it is essentially lying to its constituents. Prior to the elections, the transition to education in Estonian was the subject of sharp debates; the ideas of the Reform Party were supported by both the Fatherland and the EKRE. The representatives of the Centre Party also supported this in words when they spoke before the Estonian-speaking voters. When the Reform Party's draft was in the Riigikogu in 2018, there was exactly one vote missing from its adoption. Aivar Kokk, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Sven Sester, Priit Sibul and EKRE members voted in favour of the draft at the time. It would be very strange if you had now changed your position and not to support this draft. Why is a transition to a common Estonian education system necessary? This is necessary because it is an issue of equal opportunities and integration. As long as we keep a part of society in a different information space, there is no point in talking about integration. It may be a short-term political interest of one party, but it is not an interest of the whole of society. The Human Development Report states that the state selects children three years into parallel worlds and wonders why integration does not work. This will create inequalities from kindergarten, which will continue in education, employment and housing choices. Experts have made recommendations, people have expressed their support. Praxis integration monitoring confirms that about 70% of people, including those whose native language is Russian, support Estonian language learning from kindergarten onwards. In addition, it was one of the main topics for discussion in the elections, the subject was spoken by Isamaa, EKRE and also Estonia 200. So, if you put together the election result, you can see that this idea was supported by 612735 voters, i.e. at least 62.5% of those who participated in the Riigikogu elections. That is the will of the electorate, that must be taken into account. The proportion of children in Estonian-language schools whose native language is not Estonian has increased steadily, and their participation in language immersion schools is also increasing. Studies have shown that Russian-speaking families with a better socio-economic background, who also strongly support the child's motivation for learning, decide to put the child in an Estonian-language school. But who stands up for children who do not have such a good socio-economic background? It is in the hands of all of us to give all children in Estonia the best possible education and thus better opportunities. The Human Development Report confirms that inequality resulting from lower language skills could be mitigated by a single Estonian-language kindergarten and school that would prepare children equally for future choices. The Human Development Report, drawn up by experts, clearly states the need to move to a unified education system. Statistics show that early language learning is effective and therefore more and more parents have decided to put their children in a kindergarten in Estonian. Of course, this does not mean that all people are automatically made Estonians, there is always the opportunity to guarantee their native language skills and their own culture classes. No one wants to hurt the Russian community, at least we don't. In the previous Riigikogu debate, it was stated that the most important problem is the political decision at the moment. Let's get started and do it! Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U141	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U142	The transition can take place gradually, with specialists, parents, kindergartens and schoolteachers thinking about solutions. Yes, these solutions vary from region to region, because we know that the regions are different. As Jürgen Ligi has already said, an education system in Estonian would solve one of Estonia's real problems, with which we create more educational and professional separation and raise in Estonia other than people who do not speak Estonian. There was a multiple reproach that you had been in power why you didn't. But what kind of question is that? What kind of question is that? How does this help us to solve this problem now? If there was no social support for it in the past or the situation was such that it could not be done, then it is now possible. It is shown by the figures, by the support of the people, by the opinions of the experts. All we need is political will, and that depends on you, dear members of the coalition. If you do not support this draft today, it can be said with certainty that continuing education in Russian is the price of this coalition for the EKRE and the Fatherland. Mikhail Kõlvart said as a reason for going to the coalition: "The most important factor was the clear understanding that it was the only way to maintain education in Russian in Estonia. I stress the only one! Going with the Coalition Reform Party, or even worse staying in the opposition, would have been an opportunity to maintain the Russian school equal to zero. " If the Fatherland and the EKRE do not support our draft, it shows that they are the guarantors of continuing education in Russian. Some kind of performance, when a bill is put in place that obliges the government to make a development plan, which will be done anyway, is simply intended to mislead voters. I'll remind you again. You're in the government right now. If you want to do it, do it, if you don't want to do it, make up some other shows. Support our draft and we will take this decision, we will give the government the task of coming out with a specific plan to make Estonia's initial and school education into a single and Estonian language! But if you do not, and if you do not, please be honest with your constituents. By voting down today's draft, you will also clearly tell your voters that there will be no educational system in Estonian, that this is the price of this coalition. The complaint that this plan isn't real has been sought. It is always possible to change things, the government can come up with this plan, the government can involve experts, the government can carry out analyses, but if there is no desire, if there is no political will, nothing will be done. Please support this bill. We task the government and offer a solution to a real Estonian challenge! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U143	Thank you. The clever letter says that the person whose name is mentioned in the speech has the right to say the line. So Jürgen Ligi has that right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U144	That is a very honest provision, because in this case, the Commission rapporteur dealt with slander. I'd say what he said at my address and the address of the drafters was tagging, constantly tagging. Even though he started talking about tagging being bad, he did it himself. You wouldn't pass a school exam with that speech. He didn't really talk about it. I would expect the Committee on Culture to stimulate debate rather than deepen this culture by simply denouncing the opponent. The rapporteur for the Committee on Culture spoke of evolution, I would not call it a revolution. He tagged us with a stagnation word. It is still humor when he calls the teaching of the Estonian language and the development plan of the Estonian language as evolution. It was answered that these are the things that exist, and we do not need to give ourselves an assignment. To comment on the speech by the EKRE, I will say again that you have promised to turn Russian schools into Estonian. 'We make Russian schools Estonian' is your program. Now you come in here with an innocent face, you say there's some rush, although no deadlines were imposed, no red lines were drawn. But for you, the red line is that it's the wrong author. Your program is no longer in force. You promised to turn the Russian school into Estonian for this election period. So please check the originals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U145	Mr. Pohlak, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U146	I wanted to remind Mr Ligi, Mr President-in-Office and Mr Ligi, that I did not mention him in any way in his speech. So I would assume that his reply to Aadu Black and the Committee on Culture would still remain within this framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U147	It's a piece of information. The next performer is Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Central Party. [[M. Stalnukhin asks for more time.]] Plus three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U148	I am speaking, ladies and gentlemen and Mr President, rather as Chair of the Committee on Problems. That's why I'm not talking about politics at all, I'm talking about it. The Problem Committee was set up at the end of our spring session. So the only thing we could do was give the cultural committee a few tasks. Five times I came here during the summer and watched how the work was done. Yesterday we heard the first results. It's up to you to assess that. But the first question that comes to mind is what is the situation with teaching literature. What must a person who wants to learn Estonian seriously against the background of the Russian language do when he or she begins to realize that desire? For example, what are his chances of reading Estonian grammar in Russian? We inherited it from the National Library, which is our best library, and from there we received a single grammar. This means that the language law was passed in 1989, 30 years have passed and one grammar of Estonian in Russian has been issued in that time. I'm not going to appreciate its quality, it wasn't our goal, it's just one such grammar. The main task was to look at dictionaries from educational material. All the Russian-Estonian dictionaries that exist there were taken out of the National Library. The Commission was given the task of carrying out certain work with them. When I ask somebody in this hall what it takes to learn, for example, the system of devious Estonian, what information is needed, when it comes to words, I will not stay in my mind for a second, I know for sure that you know it. This requires a minimum of three forms: appointing, possessing and substitutable. Now I'm not sure no one's nodding. I mean, just because you know these forms from the beginning doesn't mean that those people who learn Estonian know them. In the case of a dictionary, these forms must be there. Once again, the National Library gave us 15 dictionaries that have been issued since 1980. The result of the check was that 13 dictionaries contain only the declinating declination. It's not a learning tool, it can't be learned. In two dictionarys, these forms exist, both have the same author, I'm not going to tell you who it is. Okay, reverse words. For these, we need to know the ma- and da-infinitive, the first turn and the tud-mõna. These forms are known by every Estonian. The Russian doesn't know them. He needs to be given them. We looked through 15 dictionaries, 13 of them didn't have these forms. Well, it just wasn't, that's all. Ladies and gentlemen, We are currently mapping this situation in the Committee on Trouble. I have been dealing with this issue for years and years. I know what the result is when we start looking at what kindergarten and elementary school tools have been made. When we deepen and start looking at how fulfillable the curriculum tasks are, there is no need to be a teacher or a philologist to realize that one textbook or another has simply been designed to satisfy some ambition, not what is related to the curriculum. There are practically no textbooks like that. The Committee on Problems has been set up to clarify these issues. Representatives of all political groups will be represented there. Through them, I hope, the information will reach the factions. If the Reform Party Group ensures that your representative attends the meetings of the Trouble Committee, then perhaps you will be wiser too, but the situation is as it is at the moment. When the Reform Party talks about the three parallels to the Estonian language on 1 September next year... [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, I looked at the explanatory statement, that's exactly what it is. As a teacher, I can't imagine how this can happen if we don't have dictionaries or textbooks. I'm not even talking about teachers. I'm not talking about the level of kids coming in after kindergarten first grade. I'm a realist. There's no politics here again. Just no economic man, no scientific man will ever take a decision that cannot be enforced. Prior work must be done, certain assumptions must be fulfilled, there must be a material basis, only then something can be done. I can't imagine it right now. There must be some very distorted idea of the learning process to support this draft decision. But it's on your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U149	Thank you. Katri Raik, please, on behalf of the Social Democrats!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U150	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Like Professor Aadu Black, I would like to congratulate the Reform Party for the fact that the issue of making our two different school systems more coherent and unified has been brought here today in the big hall. Let me remind you of what may not have been going through here very clearly today. In 2007, there was the last political decision concerning all our Russian-speaking schools. It provided for a partial transition to upper secondary school education in Estonian, which was famous for 60 years: 40, which has many critics, including social democrats. We have achieved something, but we certainly have not achieved enough. Only 60.2% of those who have completed secondary education this year, i.e. two out of three young people, speak Estonian at mid-level. Without speaking Estonian under B2, however, there is no way to a higher education institution, there is no way to become an Estonian-speaking collective, and there is no way to work in Estonian. At the same time, and this is very positive, three children in Russian or any other language are currently studying at one of the Estonian-speaking schools (in order to harm them, participation in immersion has increased more), or in language immersion education, either in kindergarten or in primary school. We know that there is no obligation to study in Estonian, but this is the decision of the parents. We can see that the road to a more Estonian-language school system has begun, towards making the Estonian school system more coherent. Preparedness to study in Estonian has increased considerably on voluntary basis. Before I get to why the Social Democrats are not very happy with the proposal made by this Reform Party, I want to talk in a few words about the Kohtla-Järve state gymnasium. This is always said in the last few days when this question is discussed. Yesterday, I spoke to the principal of the school, Hendrik Agur, who confirms that the school teaches both Estonian as a native language and Russian as a native language. 11th and 12th grade students learn part of the subjects in Russian. This is absolutely understandable, they went to high school with the expectation that they could study part of the subjects in Russian. True, in the 10th grade, those who have started this school will learn all subjects in Estonian. Unfortunately, there are those who have left school during the first week. According to the Director, there are also those who have come to the school. We're all saving for this school, I believe most of us keep their fingers crossed in our hearts. We hope this school is doing well. We have to admit, this is an experiment. This school hashtag is 'Cover Tomorrow'. I hope that's the way it is. In many ways, this is a school of co-educating, for which the Social Democrats stand. You can also study Russian as a native language at this school. You can also study some subjects in Russian at this school. Understandably, a school that doesn't do anything else together, doesn't do sports, doesn't go to the moor, doesn't smoke around the corner. If this is done, then there will be friendship, then you will go to university together and also to the labour market together. The Social Democrats are in favour of a co-educated school, which is formed as a community school, where people go with joy and trust. We know that in Kohtla-Järve this school was born in big disputes. Why, however, are the Social Democrats not happy with the draft of their opposition partners and with great enthusiasm for it? This is a political slogan. That's what we've been able to figure out here in more than two hours. It is also clear that the government will not do anything, today's government will not. The draft delivered yesterday confirms that nothing will happen until 2021, until the municipal elections, because only then will a strategy, a ten-point strategy, be adopted on what to do in school education. Only one of the ten points in the document transferred yesterday concerned the school. We Social Democrats are in favour of a school where we can be sure... Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U151	I'll give you three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U152	Thank you. We are in favour of a school where we can confirm that the mother tongue of each child is the language of the soul on which identity is based, and that it will be possible to study Russian and other languages as a native language in Estonia. We also see that, if there are five or ten schools in Estonia in ten years' time, where part-time education is also in Russian, it will not harm Estonians, Estonia or Estonian, but it will meet the expectations of parents who want to provide their children with a bilingual education. By the way, the same Human Development Report 2017 quoted today also gives such a school a green path. I quote: 'You have to support how to be together, but in different ways. ' Above all, we need an open debate on this subject, not only in this Chamber, but more broadly. Some damage is caused by the teachers of Russian-speaking schools who went to work this morning, feeling that something would change, and in the evening they will find out again that nothing changed. But at the same time, all the responsibility remains for what happens in the next few years in Estonian Russian-speaking schools and pre-school children's institutions, for their owners, to a large extent for local governments and school managers, because the old-fashioned way of going on is certainly no longer possible, with a high degree of readiness for change in society. I hope that we will be ready at executive level, at government level, to move forward with individual concrete steps. I have seen that there is still no class teacher's curriculum or pre-school curriculum among the same curricula spoken here, although there are large competitions and teachers could be added, there are no or only finger-tiped subjects that would support these same young people to be able to work in Estonian, there is no or very little methodology, an example of an integrated methodology for subject and language learning, but it could be. In this way, we would support parents who want to put their children in Estonian-speaking schools if it happens to be the local government and the school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U153	Thank you. Üllar Saaremäe, please, on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U154	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The good Estonian language skills of all Estonian residents should and must be a priority for every member of the Riigikogu. The Isamaa Group supports the transition to a common Estonian-language education that strengthens the nation state and the position of the Estonian language in society. The vitality of the Estonian language is guaranteed by the Estonian language of the education system and the use of the Estonian language in all areas of life. That is why yesterday we initiated a draft decision with the Centre Party and the EKRE MPs, which gave the government the task of developing guidelines to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language. The Isamaa Group agrees that the economic, social, educational, cultural, security, as well as public health are the consequences of failing to understand the Estonian language. That is why we launched this draft yesterday, which deals with all these areas. There is certainly a need to pay attention to education of interest. Today's financing model has created bilingual circles of interest. We need a model to ensure that the state's resources support the Estonian-language education of interest. The future of higher education in Estonian is even more important. We see the closing of Estonian-language curricula in higher education institutions in order to expand other language learning. One recent example is the closure of the Estonian-language master's programme of philosophy at the University of Tartu. If we no longer train philosophers in Estonian, we will narrow the sphere of use of Estonian. It is in the interests of our country and language that Estonian is a language of science, with which it is possible to discuss existential issues as well. We must maintain Estonian-language curricula and Estonian-language science. The draft decision currently under discussion is unfortunately not ambitious enough, according to the opinion of the Isamaa Group. It deals with only one area of the school bench. Let us think and act big.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U155	Thank you. There is no further wish to speak on behalf of the political groups or committees, so we are going to the vote. Before I ring that bell again, it is my duty to say that no amendments to the draft have been received. Now you'll hear the bell again. Is the honourable Riigikogu ready to vote? No one's arguing. Therefore, before you for your assessment, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposal to the Government of the Republic for the uniform and Estonian-language conversion of Estonian early and school education" (2 OE) has been submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Please take a stand and vote. 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and 44 members of the Riigikogu did not participate in the draft. The draft did not receive sufficient support.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U156	Next item: Shh! Very important! Draft of the Riigikogu's decision " Appointment of the members of the Joint Parliamentary Audit Working Group controlling the activities of the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation' submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs 35 OE. The rapporteur is Mr Karilaid, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U157	Good manager! The Committee on Legal Affairs met to discuss this draft on 11 June and made the corresponding decisions by consensus: to approve the text of the draft decision and the explanatory memorandum and to submit it to the assembly. The content of the draft is very simple: to appoint Uno Kaskpeit and Kalle Laane as members of the working group. In addition, the Commission also unanimously proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 September and that Jaanus Karilaid be appointed rapporteur. We propose to support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U158	Thank you, dear waitress. I think there are some questions for you. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U159	There cannot be a situation where such an important draft goes through without anyone paying attention to its substance. I have a question about history. Where did this idea of joint control come from? I understand that this interparliamentary joint inspection team was set up in Bratislava in 2017 and continued to act enthusiastically during the Estonian Presidency. It shall have the task of exercising political control over Europol's activities in the performance of its tasks, including the consequences of Europol's activities relating to the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons. I simply have the question of whether there is any indication that Europol has ever posed any threat to the fundamental rights or freedoms of natural persons.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U160	Thank you, good questioner! At first, it seemed that there would be such a memory game rhythm that a very precise date would be asked. But really, when you read the explanatory statement, a good questioner has made the right observations. We have had long-standing representatives Raivo Aeg and Kalle Laane. Certainly, if there had been a problem, Kalle Laane would have brought this problem to the Group of the Reform Party, and we would have discussed it in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U161	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U162	Mr. Waitress! Was there an angry debate in the Commission? Well, it is obvious when you read this title that it is a serious threat to Estonia's sovereignty. For starters, this title includes the European Union and other dangerous things. Did you actually reach a consensus there, or did you just use force?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U163	I do not know if it has been pure happiness, but lately we are taking decisions in the Committee on Legal Affairs in a consensual manner. Even the Reform Party voted in the same way with us during the debate on another draft on Monday at the Committee on Legal Affairs. So I haven't seen an angry debate. Perhaps there has been a development of political culture in the last month, but I can't say. We have not had this kind of labelling and bad saying in the Committee on Legal Affairs lately.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-10_U164	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. The political groups now have the opportunity to negotiate. Do you have a wish? The political groups do not want to negotiate, I will conclude the negotiations. There are no amendments to the draft, and we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the members of the Joint Parliamentary Scrutiny Working Group controlling the activities of the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (35 OE) submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 80 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's agenda is exhausted and the session is closed. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 12.52 p.m.
