ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 9th working week Thursday session of the first plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U2	First of all, we are able to hear the oath of office of the members of the Riigikogu. Due to the end of the mandates of the members of the Riigikogu Marina Kaljuranna and Sven Mikser, due to their resignation, replacements Jaak Juske and Lauri Läänemets will be established as members of the Riigikogu today. Let's hear their oath. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U3	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U4	Lauri West Forest next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U5	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U6	It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries if there are any. Colleagues Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I will give the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Private School Act to the procedure of the Riigikogu. This concerns the assessment of directors. Many experts have suggested that the state should take over, manage, maintain the entire school network in order to be better responsible for the quality of education. This bill has a little bearing in mind the same direction, but it certainly does not want to deprive municipalities and private schools of the right to attend school, but to improve the management of schools. The state is also responsible for the harmonisation of the quality of education throughout Estonia in the meaning of the Constitution, but today we have one of the specific critical issues of the management of schools throughout the country. In a situation where the state is responsible, but the schoolteachers are usually others, it is very difficult to assume responsibility for the end. Improvements in the management of schools are essential, and that is why we foresee the assessment of school leaders every five years and the corresponding procedures when the grade is low. This bill has a long history. It was initiated during my ministry and he was completed at the Ministry of Education. However, for reasons beyond understanding, it has been kept under the radar, and that is why we come to the aid of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U8	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, I will submit a draft law amending the Citizenship Act to the proceedings of the Riigikogu. Yesterday, the draft initiated by the Reform Party dealt with the issue of multinationality and related citizenship policy. Our draft deals with the challenges of indigenousism in citizenship policy. Namely, since 2016 we have a rule that two non-citizens born in Estonia automatically receive Estonian citizenship by naturalisation, which is very right, reasonable and good. Look, Sven Sester nods, agrees. Thanks to this, nearly a thousand Estonian children have become Estonian citizens. The next step is that the children who were born here and lived here, whose ancestors have been here since 1991, but whose parents are not Estonian citizens, would also receive Estonian citizenship. This could be a combination where one parent is, for example, a citizen of the Russian Federation and the other one has a grey passport. The child will automatically be a citizen of the Russian Federation. We give up the children born here and raised here to the Russian Federation. That doesn't make much sense. And there may also be a possibility that both parents are third-country nationals. In this case, children born in Estonia are also automatically nationals of a third country. In our opinion, that does not make sense. We could take these children into our own right now and ensure that they grow up as Estonian citizens. The agreement was also in the previous coalition agreement, but since the principles of eternal Fatherland changed in the midst of the co-operation of government, this did not happen. Now this point has been rewritten in a similar way in the coalition agreement, so we are counting on a constructive debate. Let's do this thing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U10	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U11	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I am pleased to hand over the draft Act on Supplementing the Environmental Charges Act on Ida-Viru County. The amendment would consist of at least 25% of the environmental charges received by the state budget to finance the Ida-Virumaa programme. The main focus of the Ida-Virumaa programme should be to promote entrepreneurship. Every year, Ida-Viru County receives an environmental fee of 50 million. 25% of the total environmental charge would amount to nearly 20 million. Of the 50 million, 20 million seems perfectly fair. What should I do about it? In particular, the tax credit should support those companies that are ready to create jobs that would actually suit the people of Ida-Viru County who may be unemployed in the oil shale and energy sectors. I also recall the Prime Minister's words that Ida-Viru County will be given back what has been taken from it. That's what he said in Question Time the other day. I comfort those who fear that, in this case, some of the amounts of the environmental programme that have so far been financed by light traffic routes or towers will not be built. According to subsection 1 (2) of the draft we have submitted, environmental investments in other regions will not be affected. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this legislative amendment will find your support, because that is how we can bring Ida-Viru County out of this vicious circle of oil shale and electricity, where many people in Ida-Viru County are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U12	Thank you very much to the billholders. The Bureau shall send them to the committees concerned for treatment as prescribed in the letter. Now I have a message to make. Since today is the last session of the spring session, it is kindly asked to take personal items from their tables and drawers after the end of the session. And here comes the presence check. 93 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 8.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, Now let's get to the agenda. The first substantive item on the agenda today is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa. Only negotiations are foreseen where representatives of the political groups can take the floor. First call, Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U14	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The excise duty on alcohol has two major objectives or pillars on which it is based. The first and most important objective is, of course, public health. Our goal is still that people in Estonia consume less alcohol and maintain their own health. At the same time, apart from the health aspect, the second pillar, which is revenue received by the state budget, must also be taken into account. These pillars should be balanced, but unfortunately there has been a clear shift over the years, which is why these pillars are not equal. We have all seen that border trade has intensified in Estonia towards Latvia, which has damaged the Estonian economy. In 2016, the Estonian-Latvian border started its first large liquor store. I do not agree with the view that our bill will direct the Estonians to drink more. No, that is certainly not what we are seeking, but our aim must be to stop abnormal border trade. Constant alcoral and home stocking have an impact on health. The quantities that come from Latvia are large and this makes alcohol even more available at home. The government has not forgotten the public health aspect. Paragraph 77 of the Government's Action Plan clearly states that the government aims to improve the prevention and treatment of drug addiction and alcoholism. The draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity at third reading today aims to give operators the opportunity to reduce their prices by a reduction in excise duty in order to curb the increased border trade in alcohol since 2015. As a result of the reduction in excise duty rates, alcohol producers and importers will have the opportunity to lower prices in order to influence consumers to buy alcohol from Estonia instead of Latvia. Several groups have already announced that they are planning to reduce prices immediately. For example, Paavo Nõgene, Chairman of the Management Board of the Tallink Group, announced that the Tallink Group approves the decision of the Government of the Republic of Estonia. When the Riigikogu Act is passed, Tallink promises to lower prices immediately on 1 July 2019 from the departure of the first ship of the day. Northern Estonia's trade, which can be boosted by lower prices, must also not be forgotten. It is known that since 2017, part of Finns who used to buy alcohol from Estonia have also gone to Latvia to buy alcohol. If we lower the excise duty, it will be possible to attract Finnish tourists again. We are therefore slowing down border trade in Latvia and supporting tourism in Northern Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U15	Thank you. Since I have a strong desire to perform on behalf of the Reform Party, I have asked Helir-Valdor Seeder to replace me by then.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Reform Party is disappointed that our proposal to change excise policy was not supported. We are also disappointed that our amendments were not taken into account in the procedure of the draft law submitted by the government coalition. In order to make choices about what to vote and how to vote, we must clearly imagine what we want to achieve. The purpose of the Act on excise duty increases introduced by the previous government was not to drive alcohol policy, but to enforce the Treasury. Alcohol policy was and is only an accompanying phenomenon, although it is a serious phenomenon. In a financial sense, they failed capitalically. The Estonian people unfairly lost more than 300 million euros to the State Treasury of the neighbouring country. The impact of tax policy on society is enormous. However, the main aim is to coercively collect money for the Treasury so that the state can carry out various policies, for example in the fight against drunkenness. Since tax policy can solve all societal problems, it is an illusion. In the 18th century, the French saltier gabelle caused a major rebellion that ended with the taking down of the king's head. No one thought that the purpose of this tax was to make the French use less salt. The goal was to fill the king's wallet. We are not underestimating the impact of changing the excise policy we are voting on today on alcohol policy. In our opinion, the change being made affects alcohol policy in the wrong direction, but it is an issue in itself. We hope that the bill voted on today will fulfil, even in part, the objective of correcting the consequences of the financial disaster caused by the previous government, that money will be returned to ours instead of the Latvian Treasury, that border trade will fall and that alcohol prices will fall. This has been promised by the initiators of the bill. We are not sure that this will happen, but we also have no confidence that the proposed draft law will not have a positive effect. That is why our group will vote in favour of the draft and will continue to monitor closely what happens in real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U17	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U18	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Well, we're gonna sit here tonight wondering if we're so brave as to admit our mistakes. If, at times, politicians do not dare to admit it, we know today in this Chamber that for a few years, playing with excise duties did not bring the result we wanted. When raising or lowering excise duties, it is important to monitor not only whether there is border trade or whether or not there is more money coming into the budget. You have to look at the picture much wider. Surely the most important thing is human health, the impact of the change on human health. However, we also need to look at the economy: what effect or counter-reaction this could have in the Estonian economy. We know that for several years, cars have been driving across the border, people have packed their cars full of beer and stronger drinks and brought it all home. There has also been a secret market in some ways, as many of those who take the cart from Latvia to pick up alcohol sell it quietly in their area. This certainly cannot be the purpose of a single draft excise duty. Another concern is that if someone who cannot reasonably consume has too much alcohol at home, it may happen that some nights they forget about beer or stronger alcohol and it affects not only the health of this particular person, but the whole family and ultimately the Estonian economy. I very much hope that the result of the draft is that border trade will end. On the other hand, I also hope that alcohol consumption will decrease. This is currently forecast by Estonian brewers. The benefits of the Estonian people should be that alcohol consumption will decrease and health will improve. I hope that, as a result of this draft, border trade on the Latvian border will end to a large extent, but on the other hand more tourists will emerge at the northern border. I hope that the people who have been heading towards Latvia and Riga in recent years will return to Tallinn and boost the Tallinn economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U19	Thank you. Riina Sikkut on behalf of the Social Democrats, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U20	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Of course, mistakes must be corrected, and for that we can wish to return to 2016, the so-called 'first republic', the 19th century or the end of the ancient era, but, fortunately or unfortunately, this is not possible. Unlike the opinion expressed by Mr Pohlak, when he answered my question in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, time cannot be reversed. I happen to be on a road to work in the morning, but on my way back home, it turns out there's roadwork or plumbing, and you can't go home on the same road. If it is thought that with so many parties, with regard to the issue of the behaviour and preferences of these parties, as is the content of this draft, the buttons that have been stacked on each other can be removed in exactly the same way, and the result is a former state of affairs, it simply is not possible. We are talking about the behaviour and decisions of importers, producers, sellers, consumers, the Finnish Government, the Latvian Government, and they are not under our control. One mistake of this draft is that it is based on the belief that time can be reversed, and therefore no in-depth analysis has actually been carried out, there are no agreements with other parties to understand their motivations and steps after 1 July. The second mistake is that the procedure of the draft is indeed not in accordance with good practice. The procedure has been extremely urgent, and the parties have not actually had the opportunity to ask questions at the inclusion event. Producers and sellers have also said that the speed of enforcement of the change is unprecedented. The tax change, which means for them to change prices, their labels and IT programmes, will be adopted two weeks before entry into force. At the same time, the importers themselves estimate that between three and five months of supplies are available at the old rate of excise duty. So the main effect of the change is not evident on 1 July, but much later. Those who make the change immediately from 1 July are larger companies willing to bear this loss in order to gain market advantage. So we're actually distorting the market. Third mistake: the tax is not an end in itself. Of course, the draft aims to reduce border trade and this is a completely legitimate desire. Of course, the tax on the consumption of Estonian people should be paid to our Treasury and, as the draft speakers have confirmed, the proposed solution is a political agreement. This is, however, a political agreement that is not based on analysis and where, in fact, no one has the conviction that we will receive the desired amount of excise duty and that border trade will also decrease. The government cannot, of course, be prohibited from taking a risk. I proposed that the Government of the Republic should submit a report to the Riigikogu no later than 1 January 2021 and, if necessary, a proposal to amend the rate of excise duty if the amendments adopted in June of this Act have an adverse, non-conform effect, including public health, consumption, business or the receipt of excise duty. However, this amendment was not supported. So risk is taken, but there is no real willingness to correct ex post errors. Here's the fourth mistake. Of course, excise duty is not the only measure that affects people's behaviour, including alcohol consumption. Yes, you may be able to reduce excise duty, but in order to balance, you need to have a set of planned measures that will prevent negative health effects from occurring, whether it concerns advertising restrictions, counselling or the volume of treatment provided. There is no package. We're only looking for excise duties, but measures to balance their... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U21	Three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U22	... no negative impact, no draft foreseen. Several partners, whether youth organisations, the Estonian Medical Association or Urmas Viilma, have pointed out the risks that may occur. Today, alcohol takes about a thousand people from us each year. In today's opinion, however, Jaan Süt, President of the Estonian Medical Association, writes that, on the basis of the most modest estimates, increasing consumption after the fall in excise duty will increase the number of deaths by 150 in the first year and that it is a pity that the most pressing issue of the government is to encourage drinking. There are governments with world-view disagreements and it is difficult to reach agreements. We do not want a government whose only thing we can agree on is to lower excise duties on alcohol. Let us look at a longer perspective than one financial year and a wider picture than only the alcohol excise duty that comes in! We do not really want to be a country with cheap alcohol. We do not want our tourism sector, our hotels and restaurants to earn only from the fact that people come here from 1 July to buy this two-litre Taurus, which will cost 50 cents cheaper. This is not what our economy can grow on in the long run. And we should all stand by the fact that if the government does not have an ambitious plan for this, we will signal that this plan is needed. The adoption of this draft cannot be supported. It cannot be voted for because it is based on the belief that time can be reversed, the procedure does not correspond to good practice, the draft is not based on analysis and there is no balancing package of measures that would prevent negative effects. I will not vote for it, and I ask you not to do it, too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U23	Thank you. There are no other speakers. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Estonian Central Party, the Group of the Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 9 against, no abstentions, 16 did not participate. Bill 30 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U24	Now comes the second item. This is the second reading of the draft Act 25 on Denunciation of the European Convention on violence and other irregularities in football matches and other sporting events initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U25	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The first reading of the draft 25 was completed on 3 June 2019. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5 p.m. on 10 June. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees on the draft. The Commission discussed the draft on two occasions: 28 May 2019 and 11 June 2019. The Commission asked for proposals on the draft from the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities and 106 members of the Estonian Olympic Committee. According to the reply sent by the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities, they have no comments on the draft. The other addressees did not submit proposals. The Committee on Culture asked the Estonian Football Association for an additional opinion on the draft and the related costs. The Estonian Football Association replied that they are familiar with the draft denunciation, involved in the development of the new Convention and are already complying with the principles of the new Convention. The Committee on Culture did not propose any amendments. We decided to propose that the draft be sent to second reading by 13 June. The decision was consensual. According to § 115 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the draft law concerning the foreign contract is discussed at two readings if the commission does not propose a third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U26	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U27	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Maybe you could introduce me a few words. What principles are going to change now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U28	In principle, if a new convention is to be signed, the old one must be abandoned. Otherwise, we can't do it. The new Convention provides for a three-pillar approach. It is very important that security is guaranteed, as well as good service. And that third one doesn't ring a bell. That, in principle, this convention has been made much more humane than it was before. Not required in detail what must be the drinking glasses, etc. Rather, the aim is to make everything more comfortable and safer for people, so that good service is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U29	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U30	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Is there any written sources available for this new convention to make sure that he is now facing the audience?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U31	As far as I know, these materials were sent to all political groups. You had the opportunity to read the text, and until 10 June at 5:00, everyone could make proposals. All the materials were sent.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U32	Thank you. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U33	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The day before yesterday there was an Estonian-German football match, which ended with a devastating result for Estonia 0: 8. In the light of this bill that is now approved, is such a one-sided and vigorous result of the game qualified as football violence against a small country or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U34	I don't think I need to comment on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-13_U35	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! Now we can start negotiations. Is there a desire to negotiate? All members of the Riigikogu may participate in the negotiations. There doesn't seem to be a negotiation request. There were no amendments to the draft, so we can go to the final vote. I'll invite everyone to the hall. Looks like we're ready for the final vote. I will put to the final vote the draft Act on Denunciation of the European Convention on violence and other irregularities of football matches and other sporting events initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there was no one against, no one was neutral, 18 members registered as members of the Riigikogu did not participate. Bill 25 has been passed as a law. The sitting and the sitting are closed. Have a good summer, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 10.39 a.m.
