ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will start the second working week Thursday session of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, we give our warm greetings and congratulations to our birthday child, Toomas Väinas. Congratulations! Now, we're going to move on with the drafts and the referrals. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U2	I quit now, I accidentally did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U3	No drafts or enquiries are recommended. Checking for presence. 65 members of the Riigikogu are present, 36 members are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U4	Let's go to Thursday's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the Act on Supplementing the Citizen's Act and other Acts, initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Please speak to Minister of the Interior, Katri Raigi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U5	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Mr President of the Riigikogu. The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft law supplementing the citizens' law of the European Union and other laws designed to guarantee the rights of UK citizens under the Treaty on their exit from the European Union. At the moment, we do not have any clarity as to the final arrangements for leaving the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U6	Dear waitress, I'm sorry for a moment. There's a lot of noise in the hall, even I'm having a hard time listening up here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U7	I'm a middle school teacher. I can talk all the way over the hall. There is a possibility that there will be no agreement at all or a new referendum in the United Kingdom. Despite the fact that we have submitted this draft to the Riigikogu precisely with a view to resolving the internal issue of the UK citizens who live and live here, and regardless of the uncertainty in the conclusion of the UK withdrawal agreement, it is important that the draft be dealt with and adopted in order to give legal certainty to UK citizens living in Estonia. Otherwise, UK citizens who have left the European Union would become third-country nationals in our sense. This would mean that they would not have the right to be in this country at any time. Despite the fact that the United Kingdom is leaving with or without an exit agreement, a transitional period should be provided for, as it is not possible to issue residence card cards to UK citizens overnight. First of all, with regard to the proposed draft, we are based on the fact that we are implementing the transitional period agreed between countries. This means that we do not immediately consider their citizens to be citizens outside the European Union. There is a similar understanding in the United Kingdom, where preparations have been made to ensure this kind of transition period for Estonian citizens already living there. As the withdrawal agreement applies until the end of the transitional period to all UK nationals who have used free movement and to their family members, the scope is limited to 31 March 2021. That's the transition period. We have offered a solution that UK citizens based in Estonia after March 2021 are already covered by the Aliens Act. To this end, they must apply for a residence permit in Estonia. It is certainly a question of whether we need to discuss this now, in this composition. We must, because we want to offer legal certainty to UK citizens in their own country. The question has been asked whether the next Riigikogu could not deal with this issue, but 29 March is the date of UK withdrawal from the European Union with or without a contract, and by then the new Riigikogu may not yet have taken office. Finally, I note that the IT costs related to the replacement of documents are EUR 144000 and are covered by the budget for identity documents in the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U8	Thank you, Mrs. Katri Raik, Minister of the Interior. You have at least one question. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U9	Mr President! Madam Minister! I have a question that concerns the scientific community and also students who are studying here. Are there any differences about them? Have you consulted with the Ministry of Education and Research, for example, or will everyone, regardless of the use or occupancy of people here in Estonia, go under one approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U10	Thank you for your question. At the moment, we have planned two years as a transitional period, when the United Kingdom leaves without a contract, then one year. It is certainly sufficient time to exchange current ID cards for residence cards, if necessary. I have not consulted specifically with the Ministry of Education and Research, but I can do so and give you a written reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U11	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! We will view the British as aliens and walk according to their laws, but it is interesting how they will view us in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U13	Thank you for your question. We will start to view UK citizens in the future as American citizens and Japanese citizens. They will begin, according to our better knowledge, to approach us in the same way that we treat them. These rights, which we guarantee their citizens, will also be guaranteed for our people who are currently living in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U14	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U15	Thank you. I have heard, heard or read from the same corner of the hall that was now asked about, said that it is wonderful that the British are going away, and now the Member States are going to negotiate with them. What kind of bilateral negotiations do Member States have with the British? I'm not asking why it could be nice. What does the current picture say, do we have a lot of bilateral negotiations to look forward to?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U16	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, we're not planning any further negotiations. I have just examined with officials this morning what the attitude of other countries, especially our neighbouring countries, is. I understand that most countries of the European Union behave in the same way as we do not create additional procedures, but instead provide a residence card, say, relatively automatically, and do not create any long complex processes. I would point out that about 5 000 residence permits are granted in Estonia per year. Today, as of 1 January, 1321 citizens of the United Kingdom live in Estonia, and if they urgently need to be given a new document, this is not technically possible. As far as I know, we do not have any more negotiations planned, even though the views of the Member States are different here. I understand that many European Union countries have more complicated procedures planned than we have planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U17	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U18	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm asking about the people who are stateless in our country, but they work in England. Does anything change their situation? Do they have to come back, or how does it affect their lives?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U19	Thank you for your question. I will be honest with you that I am indebted to the exact answer here, and I will also answer you in writing within a few days. In my better understanding, the same rights that have so far been enjoyed by people who have a 'grey passport' will be preserved. There are no changes here, and there is no intention of being any harder on them, but I will look into it more closely and I will answer you, just as Mrs. Krista Arule, on matters falling within the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U20	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U21	Thank you. I'm not sure this concerns this bill, but maybe you can answer the question of students. There are many Estonians in UK universities. Can they study there, and will they have a different tuition fee after Brexit? Are you familiar with this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U22	Thank you for your question. I understand they have the same transition period right now. But once again, I still have to clarify that, because as an educational person, I really should be more familiar with this side.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U23	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, can you tell me how Brexi is affected by English pensioners who have settled in southern Spain? Do you have any information on this? How does this affect the real estate markets?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U25	Thank you. It is neither the real estate market nor Spain's specialist, but it depends on what kind of policy Spain takes. It should be investigated in Spain. Once again, different countries are currently taking UK citizens in somewhat different ways, especially in terms of complexity of procedures.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U26	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U27	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, What does this bill have to do with British citizens involved in the Defence Forces? Do they have any exceptions, or is it within the limits of what is stated in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U28	Thank you. In my best understanding, it will remain within those limits if the Defence Forces have no distinctions with the units present.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U29	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U30	Thank you. There's a party in this hall who's very happy that the British are leaving. I'm sure the government has discussed this. What is the list of good things that will happen to us or the British in the light of this event?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U31	Thank you. Answering this question would rather be the responsibility of the Foreign Minister. It is clear that the United Kingdom has made its decision. Whether it is final or what will happen on 28 March, whether it is going without a contract or a contract and what kind of contract it is going to be, and what will become of Northern Ireland, of course, is the internal issue of the United Kingdom, it depends on what is good and what is bad. It's up to us to guarantee the good that is. It is great to have clarity for those people, for the citizens of the United Kingdom who live there, and for our people who live there. The important thing is that people who have come here and are here now can be at peace, learn and work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U32	Madam Secretary of the Interior, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Please speak to Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U33	Good morning, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Thomas, co-competitor from Lääne-Virumaa, congratulations again, health and glory! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the draft before us on Monday, 14 January. If you can sum all this up very easily, why are we doing this, then the reason is very simple. The British have been good partners for a long time, and we expect that we will continue to be good partners for each other. Indeed, it would be the smallest accident if the British did not leave the European Union, and it should be that we do not stop reading this draft at all during this term. Don't worry about it! Minister Katri Raik went on to introduce the bill over the main points that this bill regulates. I would add nothing but that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda for this week and here we are. Our proposal is to conclude the first reading of the draft and set ten working days for the amendments, so the deadline is 6 February 2019 at 5.15 p.m. We've appointed me as waitress. You can see that in the picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U34	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. Looks like you don't have any questions. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 781. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 781 amendments, including 5.15 p.m. on 6 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U35	Today's item No 2 is the first reading of the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Priit Sibula, Madis Milling and Hardi Volmer. Please speak to the member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U36	Thank you, good vice chairman. Dear colleagues here in the hall and in the offices and those who follow us through the Internet, both working colleagues and admirers of Estonian music and Estonian authors' talent! The purpose of this bill is to update the so-called empty cassette fee resulting from the Estonian Copyright Act. A little empty tape fee. At the time when Estonian artists released a vinyl CD or audio tape, they did not always receive a payment for the distribution of the work on the basis of legitimate expectations, because people copied music. Probably some of you will remember. For younger people who watch us through an internship, I'll tell them there were these squares, tapes in them, they were tapes. For these audio cassettes, the copyright had set an empty tape fee. Many know that CD-ROMs also had empty discs that could be copied, for example, pictures of family trips, and were loaded with an empty cassette fee. There were empty videotapes, VHS, and the movies didn't come from Netflix, but they could be saved with such a large video tape recorder and then watched again. This activity was also loaded with an empty cassette fee. The people of Estonia were happy. No one felt that the authors were overwhelmingly oppressed by their own wishes, and they already received this empty tape reward. But, oh, surprise! Time has passed, technology has evolved. By now it is only possible to listen to audio tapes from American cars and it is extremely difficult to get them, and it is only possible to purchase tapes from abroad, somewhere online. Empty media, CD-ROMs probably get somewhere, even though I haven't seen them since today's computers don't have a place to put it anymore. Of course, instead of VHS cartridges, there is now a recording time machine, and if there is a need to carry on a large volume, it is a flash drive. Technology has progressed so much that a lot of people listen to music from a mobile phone or MP3 player and watch movies via Netflix. Thus, Estonian authors have the right to receive a fee for products that are not sold. Colleagues in Europe are happy, however, because their country goes along with the latest steps of the scientific and technical revolution, there are empty cassette-charged computers, off-computer hard drives, flash drives, MP3 players, as well as mobile phones. Since 2004, the Riigikogu has not dared to update our copyright law for several reasons. These are reasons I cannot tell you, but I think it is our moral duty to update the fee for an empty tape. So that Estonian authors and composers, as well as actors who can play their part in this, feel equal to those of European co-workers, we are a small group of authors of the Riigikogu, although I know that we have actually come up with more here with this proposal. We also have a list here. Perhaps if there was a videotape, an audio tape, a CD-R, a minidisk was this kind of extra small tape, maybe somewhere else is using it, but it's good to take it from the nostalgia museum, VHS, DVD, video recording device, audio tape, then we find it necessary to update that list. I am now talking about a possible price change. Unfortunately, in Europe, Estonia is dragging the average fee down, there is nothing to do, as we still have no size. We also have some material to add to you here with examples of the percentage of compensation for: e-readers, USB memory drive, memory card, external and non-integrated internal hard drives and semiconductor discs, MP3 and MP4 player, tablet and hybrid computer, laptop computer, desktop, game console, car media centre, multimedia player, set-top box or video tuner, smartphones and mobile phones with MP3 and MP4 player, TV, home cinema system, digital box, satellite receiver, etc. Rein Lang, the former Minister of Culture, vexed and scolded the Estonian authors: why do you always walk in the way of the New World Recipient to give money, give money. Be innovative and collect this money yourself! This is exactly what Estonian authors want by updating the fee for an empty tape. They could do it. But, oh, woe! Computer vendors and mobile phone vendors found it necessary to form a united front. It was necessary to ridicule all the authors. It was necessary not to know where to obtain, for example, the claim that a mobile phone would cost more than EUR 108 once this law was in force. In the meantime, yesterday we processed here the draft law on bringing ships under the Estonian flag. This speaker said that, since they are private limited companies, they feel that they are somehow losing their profits. Here's the same suggestion: you can raise the price so much that the owner can benefit. However, the drafters do not foresee such an increase, as in fact all media are dealt with on a volume basis. I know we have a lot of papers today, but we're going to go on page 9 and we're going to see that the MP3 and MP4 player price is going to be 2 euros, and the mobile phone price is going to be 4 euros. Is it tax or justice? We may also ask how much computer and mobile salesmen have won because we in this Chamber have not dared to update an empty tape fee. I believe that in the Republic of Estonia, every person has the right to be paid for the work he has done, and I do not think that any composer or artist would have been immensely overpaid. It's possible he's overfished, but whoever they want to see and who they don't, it's up to the people. If you ask me how much I would personally benefit from this bill, I will say that over ten years I have received zero euros from copyright. Because my music isn't modern, it's not played, maybe it's not airworthy either. I don't think that after becoming the law's payment for an empty tape, the display of the music I created would become massive. Thus, the authors who are exhibited and whose works are copied will still receive a large part. These authors, who are not popular, are not popular. However, it distributes the fee for an empty tape between nine organisations representing authors and they already distribute it at their own discretion. I am not a member of the Estonian Artists' Association; I am not a member of the Estonian Theatre Association; I am not a member of many associations; I am just a member of the Estonian Authors' Association since the last millennium. I see that Estonian authors must have the right to be treated equally with European authors, so I ask for support for this draft. I kindly agree to answer any questions that arise in this Chamber. I would like to say that, at the next readings, there will already be a Commission waitress here, who is familiar with the matter, but is not himself an author. I admit that both Madis Milling and Hardi Volmer can complement me, and they also have their own comments and observations, because of circumstances, but I am here today to speak for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U37	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress and one of the initiators of the bill! In the Committee on Culture, this draft law, which was actually very much welcomed by the Commission, was under discussion. We all agree that this must go to a successful end. But why did the initiators present it so late? Were you expecting the Justice Department? Why did it come at the last moment before the end of the squad?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U39	Thank you! We actually wanted to make this amendment when we processed last autumn the law amending the copyright law, as well as copyright, where we gave the authority to translate things around for people with special needs, such as blind people, or I do not know how to call it, it is not necessary to ask authors for rights. And that was also the accession to the International Convention. It was completely realistic to make these proposals there, but as a young and green member of the Riigikogu, I was the victim of an Italian strike. So, by the deadline for submitting the amendment, I had only a 'half-armed sparrow', which was embarrassing to come to the Commission. So I'm late. But we immediately turned it in. Why the Committee on Culture put it on the agenda for so long is probably also the result of our Rules of Procedure, according to which things can be postponed for as long as possible. Then, when it was no longer possible to postpone the matter, it was done. I think perhaps the Committee on Culture was not yet ready for this. Maybe it's good, maybe it's bad, I don't know. We did do it quite quickly, though: if we were late with the proposals to amend this previous copyright law, we will come with them today. It was also processed in 2016. So I think that if this will exists in the Committee on Culture, we will be the law on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U40	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I understand that there is also some way of not imposing these taxes, but in this case the country should have the issue of compensatory mechanisms resolved. How about this? So are we following these European orders and we have compensatory mechanisms, or what? Otherwise, we will always be diligent in meeting European requirements and directives. Aren't we okay with these things and somehow we've been sneaked off, or are we still okay? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U42	Thank you! It was a very sharp and precise observation. We are usually very clever to comply with all the directives, but quite selectively. Sometimes we have interest groups, some of whom want us to update and transpose directives, but others who say that we still have time, we still have time, we still have time. We have had time since 2004 and we still have time, we still have time. I do not think that this is such a burning problem that the next Riigikogu will actually deal with it. It's out of the top 200 of our burning problems. However, if we now look at this from the point of view of Estonian authors, it is their main opponents, who do not want to burden the media with this fee, who have done better lobbying. There is no compensation mechanism as such at present. The Association of Estonian Authors has, of course, brought matters before the Court and accused our voters broadly that they have already elected members of the Riigikogu since 2004 who have not dealt with this document. I believe that there is no legal basis for this, even though they have wanted equal treatment with European authors. That is why, in my opinion, the time is ripe. We do not have any major objections here in this Chamber, nor do the people who are currently in office, to the possibility of updating the fee for an empty tape. That's what he's behind. When the Estonian Authors' Society came out with a sci-fi compensation claim, musicians who dared to say the word were branded as fools. Yet we listen to the same musicians with pleasure, toss them with our fingers, hold the blue-black-white flag in our hands when they go to Eurovision, and say, "Yeah-yeah, those are our artists!" I hope that now we can sincerely live with them and say that we have done everything we can to make them feel equal in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U43	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good bill starter! I just have a question for the sake of clarity. What is your position on the improvements made by the Ministry of Justice to this very draft? The way they see things is somewhat different from what you have proposed. Please tell me, do you agree with the options and suggestions proposed by the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U45	Thank you! I have to admit, the Justice Department has taken the matter seriously. He has not stuck with the analysis that was ever carried out and decided by the court. The amount that was supposed to come from there wasn't good. If we look at my document, I think on page 11 there are sums that can actually be collected and cleared by judgment. The Justice Department has ordered a pretty thorough analysis, it's welcome. This is not the first choice of the drafters, because it has been resolved in Finland and in Spain in the manner proposed by the Ministry of Justice. The Spanish solution, which is why it is not good, must be spoken of by a good colleague, Hardi Volmer. If I were to proceed from my own personal point of view now, I would not support it because of the principle of equal treatment. Perhaps the initiators of the bill will see that the machines that can record and play music are actually loaded. However, the fact that the entire Estonian people are jointly and severally involved in compensating the authors for not renewing the fee for an empty tape is, in my opinion, wrong, because there are people among us who do not have the opportunity to listen or see. They should then be jointly and severally involved in this compensation, which does not resolve the situation. The Estonian authors say that they are ready to go and collect this money from the market with the mechanisms given to them, and want them to be treated equally. Right now we're giving some kind of relief, we're giving a certain amount. The authors argue that this sum should actually be more times as many. But considering all the pros, it's going to be minus. If nothing has been done since 2004 and it has not been dared to do, I think in 2019, before the elections, it will be good to decide whether to do it the same way or the other way around. I think the authors will be somewhat satisfied with the result. No part will be satisfied with anything, no matter how you do it, 7% will never be satisfied with anything. Either way, people are complaining and complaining that this is not the right decision, whether it is the same or not. But I say that now the Committee on Culture has the power to decide which version to proceed with. I hope that my performance has been convincing and spirited and you will understand that Estonian authors want equality, justice and freedom of creation. I hope you will support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U46	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U47	Thank you, manager. Good brother Tarmo! I was very impressed with this soulful performance and these nostalgic references. I especially like this 'and we still have time, we still have time' just the music started ringing in my ears. I am also in favour of protecting and helping authors' rights, so that is not the issue. But it does not prohibit you from asking a question that seems a bit spiteful, and I ask you this: is there any data on how many such media, even for my sake, CD-ROMs, are used to preserve music and authors' creations and how much maybe something else? Why do I ask that? I also have a record collection that starts with 1913 records, but all those carriers that have already been mentioned, CD-ROMs, etc., I and a large number of my colleagues are filled with their own databases, source sources, potential research, etc. I mean, you know, I don't have any music recordings, and I don't use the phone either. What about proportions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U48	Thank you! I would rhetorically ask how much you felt about this inequality when you burned the research and materials on the CD-ROM, and felt that it was unfair because the CD-ROM was already loaded with an empty tape at the time. We didn't feel it. How much do we feel about the cost of 4 euros on a mobile phone, while the cost of a mobile phone case is 12 euros and the cost of a plastic or glass on it is 10 euros? I think we know that, but we don't feel it or sense it, just like we don't sense a lot of money. We buy it at the price we buy it with. We have the freedom to choose, don't we? The fact that he is burdened with consideration is simply a matter of law. If a person has a chance to record it, but doesn't use it, it's up to him. I, for example, actually take part in the payment of quite a lot of other things, as we all do as taxpayers. Is that why we sometimes discuss how good or bad one thing or another is? As such, authors have been granted this right, which has simply not been updated. However, good Aadu, you may have to pay a one - time fee if you have purchased a medium. Now, if you happen to pass on this medium, let's say, to a wind-headed student who just forgets that he got it from the professor and records music there, it actually serves a purpose. If a student gives it back, you eliminate his recordings and put your stuff back in its place, it's re-use. The 2 euros that have gone from the time of the acquisition of this medium to the benefit of Estonian authors, Estonian music, are few. I myself would be willing to contribute 5 instead of 2 euros, even six, but as the author of the draft, I would still stick to the numbers they offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U49	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U50	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I will question the position of the Government of the Republic on this draft. You are a member of the government coalition, and you are also the author of this draft. The government is not only in the habit of presenting, but the government is in the process of expressing its views on the drafts. Does the government support this draft in the proposed form or does it not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U51	Yes, the government supports the bill because it sees that there is a problem that needs to be solved. The government, however, has a vision of how to solve it. This means that we have two solutions, one of which is the best. At this point, it is very good for you to talk to the people of your group who represent your group in the Committee on Culture and to move forward with this version. However, I call on all of you to cooperate in order to eliminate this unequal situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U52	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U53	Thank you. Actually, that's a repetition of the first question. I didn't get an answer. The Government shall state its views on drafts in the form of whether or not they support the draft. Has the government said, in the form presented in relation to this bill, whether or not it supports it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U54	The government supports the bill, but the Ministry of Justice has its own, its own vision. The draft itself is a law amending the Copyright Act. It is simply a regulation that sets the fee for an empty tape that can be done in two ways. If the government did not support it, obviously it would not have moved on either. The question is whether the government supports the position of the initiators and whether it says that something is wrong, for example, in this form. The government has not ruled this out and said that the approach taken by the initiators is wrong. But the government has a vision. I would remind you that the government is our contractor, we are the government's employers. Therefore, we should not be very obsessed with what the government is telling us, but the Committee on Culture still has a heavy point in deciding which version is more correct and fairer. I call here on the Committee on Culture to cooperate in a purposeful way and to put an end to this unreasonable situation, which has been in place for 15 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U55	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Obviously, the previous question was whether the government would support the draft in the proposed form. As you report it to us now, the government does not support it, but wants to change it. But my question is that in Estonia we have an authors' association and an association of phonogram producers and another comma. Are there, among them, common positions on the draft proposed in this form, or are there different opinions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U57	Thank you! The nine representative organisations that went to court with this claim found a consensus among themselves. They have now also found consensus on the draft that we have tabled, as well as on the version of the Ministry of Justice. The situation is therefore extremely strange. The authors have buried all the axes of war and agreed to move on. As performers, we have also rejected any disagreements with representative organisations and said that we are going forward. The authors have also abandoned their differences regarding the version proposed by the Ministry of Justice. So, by now, the three parties to this process have taken a very big step backwards. It is purpose-based, because this situation must be resolved in some way. There must be some guarantee of equal treatment of authors with their European counterparts. I'm sorry for the expression 'colleagues'! I don't like the word 'college', but they're not coworkers now. I hope that the Committee on Culture also considers that a good situation would be a situation where there are not so many and so vocal opponents, and that this must go on. I think we will be able to close this procedure during the current Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U58	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, I very much hope that our government and the Minister of Justice will not have visions, but positions. Secondly, did I understand your answer correctly that the authors' representative organisations have either way to choose?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U60	Thank you! The authors' representative organisations agree with any solution that ends the unequal treatment of Estonian authors compared to European authors, so they have made every possible compromise. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu now has this responsibility to decide whether we will solve an existing problem or compensate for it. But the problem itself remains. At the moment when even computers are sold cheaply in Estonia, as usual, in January, when prices go down, a big music friend begins to think that if I buy a computer more cheaply than a foreign country, I will support foreign authors if I buy it from Estonia, then I will not support Estonian authors. Thus, the financial situation of Estonian authors will improve for the second option, but legal inequalities will still be preserved. In any case, the authors have taken a step backwards; they expect some sort of solution to this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U61	Dear waitress Tarmo Kruusimäe! No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U62	Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U63	Please speak to Heidy Purga, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U64	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Good President! First reading of Bill 757 amending the Copyright Act, I describe what happened in the Committee on Culture. Preparation for the first reading of the draft was discussed in the Committee on Culture on Thursday 17 January, including. Following the debate, it was proposed to send the draft to the plenary session on 24 January 2019, and it was decided to appoint a speaker to act as rapporteur for the commission. I will now give a more detailed description of the debate that took place in the Commission. Aadu Must, president of the Committee on Culture, members Laine Randjärv, Heljo Pikhof, Krista Aru, Toomas Jürgenstein, Toomas Väinaste, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, Yoko Alender and advisers Angelika Berg, Urvo Klopets and minutes Merje Noorlind participated. In addition, Tarmo Kruusimäe, representative of the initiators of the draft, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Kärt Nemvalts, adviser to the private law department of the Ministry of Justice participated in the session. First of all, at the meeting of the Commission, the views of the initiators of the Tarmo Kruusimäe draft were explained, which he has just been able to present quite thoroughly here on the platform. You're familiar with these views. Urmas Reinsalu also spoke at the meeting of the Commission, who said that there are very conflicting interests: on the one hand, there is a legitimate interest of consumers who are not thrilled by price increases and, on the other hand, the interests of authors and performers. According to Reinsalu, the whole question is whether or not to pay the authors a reward. He also talked about how it is regulated in the European Union and that there are many ways of collecting taxes. In Finland, for example, the fee is paid through the state budget. In most countries, however, either the volume of storage media or the units of storage equipment are taxed as proposed in this draft. In addition, it is possible to tax on a percentage basis. Next, the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, described the court proceedings, which resulted in the entry into force of a court ruling in Estonia, which acknowledged that authors have the right to benefit from the logic in force and have been set at EUR 80000 for four years. The Ministry of Justice has commissioned a study to determine how much is used for personal consumption in Estonia, trying to take out the proportion of pirated copies from this calculation. Reinsalu concluded that, according to the calculated logic of this study, the compensation rate was EUR 8000. The basic choice, which the Ministry of Justice has also presented to the Cabinet for discussion, prefers the payment of equipment from the state budget to taxation, and the fair reimbursement from the state budget from the current consumption pattern would amount to EUR 2 million. Members of the Commission actively asked questions. Heidy Purga asked, for example, whether the government's decision to go to the state budget model with an empty cassette fee was a precedent. According to Reinsalu, the decision is indeed precedent in the meaning of the Estonian legal order. He added that the current model would take into account equipment that would result in EUR 0 but that the new model would be based on a consumer survey and the proposal would provide for three-year cycles. Krista Aru asked a very important question: whether the initiators of the draft have also been able to analyse the model offered by the government and whether the procedure for the draft law proposed by the Minister is acceptable to the initiators. Tarmo Kruusimäe replied that the initiators supported the principle of the draft. Kruusimäe acknowledged the Ministry of Justice's consumer research and attention to the problem and expressed its wish to move forward with the discussion to find a suitable solution. Heidy Purga also asked about the compensation mechanism, namely what orders of magnitude have changed in the use of equipment. Urmas Reinsalu replied that some countries use a capacity-based system of equipment. As the volumes of technology change rapidly, it is the most beneficial system for authors. The Minister explained that if the law in force had a percentage of 3 and 8, the addition of technological equipment to the model would amount to EUR 10 million per year. It was decided, by consensus, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda, that Heidy Purga be appointed rapporteur, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U65	Honourable Member of the Committee on Culture Heidy Purga! You have at least one question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U66	That's great!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U67	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U68	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good co-rapporteur! I ask how this came to be the ten working days of amendments decided in committee. Can we make it in a shorter time? We have allowed two days, sometimes four days, for amendments to be tabled here on some of the most important issues. If the process has been going on for so long, then all parties have already been able to table their proposals, and this is one big compromise. Do you think it will be possible to process the entire legislative amendment during this ten-day period?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U69	Thank you, good questioner! If we're willing, we can do anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U70	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Hardi Volmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U71	Austet President! Ladies and gentlemen, The main part of the story has already been given an enlightening overview. I would rely on the opinion of a very competent expert. In itself, I will not fail to repeat how perverse it is not to say that it is shameful to say that our beloved little e-state, which has been praised for its heights, still glides like a chicken, because it has not finally been possible to come today from the former system. But it's a pleasure to know that the ice has started moving and we've gotten out of the stump. In order not to burden you with explanatory talk for too long, I will just talk a little bit about the two systems that are in use in Europe and one 'legal finales'. As the previous speakers have already mentioned, the Ministry of Justice has taken such a course that Estonia could belong to the European minority among those countries that have solved the issue of copyright on the basis of the state budget. These are our tribal peoples Finland, Norway and Spain. All other European countries, including our southern friend Latvia, regulate this system by charging a storage medium, which is already charged to the manufacturer or supplier, who combines it with the cost of the corresponding equipment. Look at the wonder, even in poor Latvia for some reason, this system works, the authors are satisfied and peace on earth. However, our current regulation tends to move to a place where, fortunately, a real bicycle is not being invented, Estonia is not yet trying to come up with any third sovereign regulation, which would probably also be possible, but the whole system would be so-called state budget-based. This would mean an additional burden on the state budget of EUR 2 million per year. On its own, it would actually be magnanimous on the part of the state and not bad at all. As I have already said, it works in three countries, even though there is a little bit of misplaced in these matters, because the latest data tell us that Spain is redeploying its own laws. This is where the same legal moments come in. In fact, we are talking about the distinction between a legal person and a natural person in this legislative amendment. Now comes a beautiful international organization called WIPO, the World Intellectual Property Organisation, which is mainly monitoring or monitoring, and is also surprised to note in its reports that Estonia is the only European country in this system, like the Stone Age.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U72	Three minutes extra time, huh?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U73	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U74	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U75	The second institution, which has taken an active part in this, is the Court of Justice. On the basis of the WIPO reports, the European Court of Justice ordered Spain. I do not know exactly why Norway and Finland were not hit by the same precept, but Spain has changed its laws and is going to the media taxation system. In particular, it was found to be in breach of the interests of natural persons that it should only be burdensome... I mean, he should only be a burden to natural persons, private individuals, not companies or organizations. So in this sense, it is the same stone behind which Spanish joyful regulation is now entangled and why Spain is going around its own system. At the same time, Estonia is now on the road to transposing the state budget-based regulation, which is apparently legally incompetent in the eyes of the Court of Justice. I mean, this system must be able to contain a separate regulation that would distinguish between downloading natural persons from the cloud of the creation of creators, or authors, by streaming, but it should not concern legal persons. It's a place to think anyway. Rather, it seems only right to go on a path that does not burden the state budget with two million a year and then go on to the system that is prevalent elsewhere in Europe. Time's up. I thought I'd take the documents and I'd be happy to answer the questions, but they're not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-24_U76	Thank you. You cannot answer the questions now, because the procedure does not allow it, you gave a speech on behalf of the group. Since there are no more callers, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 757. The first reading is closed, and I will set the deadline for the submission of the 757 amendments, including 7 February at 5.15 p.m. Our trial today is over. I wish you all a busy Thursday. Closure of the sitting at 11.05 a.m.
