ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! The Question Hour was registered by 33 members of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar and Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva, good afternoon! I will give an opportunity to put forward a more specific question for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U2	The first questioner is Jüri Saar, the first answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Jüri Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! There has been a lively debate about the teaching of Kohtla-Järve State Gymnasium in recent days. This case clearly excites many people in the region as well as across Estonia. The Minister of Education has tried to show the language of instruction as a purely practical problem that should be resolved before 1 September: where do teachers-students come from? Prime Minister, in the eyes of the current government and in your opinion, does the Kohtla-Järve state gymnasium have a great symbolic value in addition to its practicality? If so, what is it about?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Since all the first three questions are on this subject, let me start a little bit more broadly, and then we move on to a narrower area. Yesterday, unfortunately, it became clear that it is not possible to discuss the future of our country in a balanced way during the election campaign, including education. The temptation to spread false news joyfully and to oppose our people on a national basis only leads us beyond solutions. We only have one Republic of Estonia and one democracy. It doesn't matter whether it's broken by hostile media channels with false and false news or by our own politicians, the result is exactly the same. The dissemination of false news has damaged democratic processes around the world, also in large countries and old strong democracies. The truth is increasingly replaced by divisive, emotional statements. We are dealing with the rejection of false news in the European Union and NATO, but they are becoming an increasingly common weapon in our internal policies. It can't be like this. All political parties must act responsibly and maintain the cohesion of society, not destroy it. The politicians who spread false news in social media knew very well that in Kohtla-Järve the Russian flag was raised next to the Estonian and European flag only because there were visitors from Novgorod in the city. Consciously and intentionally creating wrong links and sowing hatred are unacceptable techniques that are not suitable for the Republic of Estonia, which celebrates the 101st anniversary. It is unacceptable for educational decisions to be dragged into election battles and pupils to be used as a political weapon. 10, 100 or 1000 days before the Riigikogu elections, no political party has the right to tear Estonia apart. It is the duty of the Heads of State to provide people with confidence and the best future, not to undermine it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U5	George Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U6	Thank you. I'll try to proceed more specifically. What are the specific advantages that currently apply to the teachers of Ida-Virumaa who carry out their studies there in Estonian? If possible, please bring out what has been established during your reign!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U7	Thank you for this question. First of all, let us start with the level that is most important in this matter, i.e. in kindergartens. For kindergartens, for the first time this year, the current government has allocated 1.5 million euros, which gives Russian-language kindergartens the opportunity to recruit more Estonian-language teachers, especially in kindergarten groups. There are now 53 teachers, it is 30 groups in 10 kindergartens in Tallinn and 32 groups in eleven kindergartens in Ida-Virumaa. A very specific example! If we move forward from here, we certainly consider it important to contribute to the project in order to increase the wage fund for teachers in Ida-Virumaa by one third. Currently, this project covers three schools and is being continued. But I certainly believe that the next steps must be taken in the near future, and there must be more schools in which the payroll is bigger to guarantee Estonian-language learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U8	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U9	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I don't understand your aggressive tone, who exactly is being accused here? Firstly, of course, education is the subject of elections. The different political parties have a different vision as to whether the Estonian education system must be unified in Estonian or not. We think it has to be in the Reform Party, the Central Party thinks it's different. But that's it. If you could raise your voice to anyone right now, I think it's your own government member, Mailis Reps. He has caused confusion in Kohtla-Järve and elsewhere in Ida-Virumaa. He has upset the local Estonian community and is deeply concerned about what happens to learning in Estonian. The positions of the Ministry change every week and every month. Yesterday or the day before, I think you put in a working group in the government to discuss this issue. Yesterday, Mailis Reps said that this task force is completely meaningless and that state secondary schools are pointless at all. Maybe we should look for the cause of these problems at the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U10	Thank you, good questioner! I agree with the statement that there may and must be an educational debate before the Riigikogu elections. However, I do not agree that the national map will be brought back to the table in the shadow of the educational debate. This map, which, as I pointed out in reply to the first question, clearly divides Estonian society, is brought back to the table. That's why I'm so sad. I am certainly prepared to do everything I can to prevent us from splitting our society. What happened yesterday because of the same flag was specifically a desire to gloat, point, and split. It was very well known that this was a false news story. Every day in the world, people fight false or false news. Their existence is a very dangerous tendency. My fellow Members in NATO and the countries of the European Union have this issue on the table all the time; it must be opposed. I am very sorry, Mr. Arto Aas, that the Reform Party is producing and sharing false news. This is a very big problem from the point of view of Estonia's coherence and democracy. When it comes to education and Kohtla-Järve upper secondary school, we follow exactly the same rule as in 2015, for example, when the state secondary school was opened in Jõhvi. My view is that in Kohtla-Järve state gymnasium there must be one hundred percent of Estonian language education for all. Those who are unable to apply it in a subject or in a few hours really need to be taught in their own language, but that does not necessarily mean that we do not have to reach this goal within a certain period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U12	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U13	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! You gave us a statement where you spoke about ethnic confrontation and the division of society and that education issues should not be part of the campaign. In my opinion, it is quite obvious that in the language issue of this Kohtla-Järve gymnasium, the Estonian government, the government led by the Centre Party, are opposed to Estonians in Kohtla-Järve and Ida-Virumaa. Your government is taking the lead in this ethnic confrontation. The divider of society is your government and, of course, people have reason to be very upset and to take it as a very dangerous tendency. The educational decisions you have made are very clear: you are knowingly going this way, that you are allowing Russian-speaking education to mobilise your Russian voters. I have a simple question for you: do you believe that you will succeed in doing the same trick this time as always: you will tell the Russian voters one thing and the Estonian voters another in order not to lose the Estonian voters?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U14	Thank you. First of all, I think that the message to all Estonians can and must be one, no matter what language we pass on this message, be it Estonian, be it English, be it Russian or any other language. Point two: the current government has done this to help the establishment of the state gymnasium in Kohtla-Järve to improve the learning of the Estonian language, to raise the level of the Estonian language among students. I understand that it is very nice to say ten days before the elections, so on your question, it was that we wanted to leave Estonian in the background. I stress: this school will be one hundred percent in Estonian. Those who are unable to learn one hundred percent in Estonian from 1 September 2019 will be able to complete some lectures or courses in their native language. Which does not mean that we somehow retreat from the goal that at one point all the courses and lectures will be there one hundred percent in Estonian. I think it makes a lot of sense in the pre-election debate to keep different options on the table. I think it is better to have politicians sincerely try to come up with solutions. For example, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, has offered one solution so that Järve Upper Secondary School could continue. At least some attempt has been made to find a solution to improve Estonian language learning there. But if it's just trying to split up on the national surface, I'm really against it. And I do not agree with the statement at the beginning of your question either: you said that I said that the debate on education must not be on the table. On the contrary, I said the debate on education must be on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U15	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U16	Thank you. Well, it's really hard to have any debate if you're just saying something that's not true. It is a fact that the current government intends to shut down the upper secondary school in Kohtla-Järve only in Estonian. It's pure fact. And the fact is that this school, which is planned to be opened in the autumn, does not only work in Estonian, it is bilingual. Even worse: in this bilingual school, Estonians, children with Estonian native language are clearly outnumbered and are starting to study in a Russian-speaking environment where Russian-speaking people predominate. That's the Russification. This is the Russification of Ida-Virumaa, this is the exorcism of Estonians by the Estonian government from Ida-Virumaa. It's a gift on the tray of Ida-Viru County to the Russian sphere of interest. And that's what your government does. If you have not been able to prepare the opening of an Estonian-language school in Ida-Virumaa in two years in government, what have you done since giving speeches?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U17	Thank you. They say don't call evil. The old folk talk is about a shepherd boy who called it a joke that a wolf is in a flock of sheep. The villagers came to help and found out there was no wolf. At one point, however, the wolf was there, and when the shepherd boy called again to help the village, no one left. I very much hope, Mr Helme, that you actually understand the weight of your words that you are saying here ten days before the elections. Those are pretty heavy words. As Prime Minister, I certainly can't just listen to it. I answer you clearly that my desire and task is to keep Estonia on a balanced path, to keep Estonia on a coherent path, not to divide society. You will immediately, as if with pleasure, produce this 25.26% of Estonian society. There's no way you're gonna tell me to get out of here. I don't think it's a joke you're playing with fire anymore. The state gymnasium in Kohtla-Järve will be in Estonian. Period. The fact that we are creating state secondary schools has been a national policy for the last 15 years. It has been a clear goal that other upper secondary schools, which are municipal secondary schools, disappear from there. Kohtla-Järve currently has two Russian-language secondary schools or upper secondary schools and one Estonian-language school, plus an adult school. And the goal has always been to make these children, these young people, learn at one school and improve language learning in order to achieve 100% teaching in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U18	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U19	Thank you. It's nice to talk about the wolf and the cattle boy here, but it is, I'm sorry, fog. You have the Internet on that phone, open the Estonian Constitution and read what the Estonian state is for! It is designed to preserve the Estonian language, nationality and culture throughout the ages. But what's going on in Ida-Virumaa is everything else, and it's unconstitutional. You're saying you're against social division and all, but with your actions, you're creating that gap. The claim that education must be one hundred percent Estonian-speaking, indeed, 10 points! But how this sentence continues, it is again absolute demagoguery. If one hundred percent of Russian studies can continue in this Estonian-language school, it is not a hundred percent Estonian-school. And you're not looking for any other solution to this problem...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U20	That's not a question now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U21	... which is why we are really giving up Estonia. I would like to ask the Prime Minister in his own words: do you understand what you are telling us here and what you want to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U22	Thank you. I want to do what is written in our soul and in our constitution: that the Estonian state should last so that the blue black and white wave, our language and culture should be preserved and developed. That's what I want to do! And that our population would grow so that the people of Estonia would return from abroad to work in Estonia and create a family so that more children would be born in Estonian families than today. That's what I want to do! Now, you speak so specifically of Kohtla-Järve and Ida-Virumaa, but I'm not quite sure if you've been to this district and met these people. If you want to say that, from 1 September, you, Mr Henn Põlluaas and EKRE, ensure that all Kohtla-Järve young people speak Estonian, it must be said that, unfortunately, we have not been able to achieve this in the last 28 years. This isn't real! We have moved forward and I think that the direction has been very right. I don't think there's any way we can stop right now and say we're not going any further. Of course, let's move on! I think that the establishment of a state secondary school as an Estonian-language school is a very right step in the right direction. Yesterday, the Minister of Education and Research also met with teachers, leaders and children from Russian-speaking schools. I asked him about what happened, and it didn't turn out that they didn't try or want to learn a hundred percent in Estonian at one point. It seems to me that this rhetorical idea of the Reform Party has come into your rhetoric that if we put some numbers in Excel's table, it's done. Real life, whether in Sauel or Tallinn or in Kohtla-Järve, is something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U24	And now Maris Lauri is asking Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U25	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! The aim of state secondary schools is to ensure a uniformly strong education that offers a wide range of options throughout Estonia. The establishment of state secondary schools has generally been successful. Everyone has had their own problems, but now in Kohtla-Järve there are more problems than usual. There are probably several reasons for this. One thing is that the elected director was weak, did not work very well with the arrangement, but it was also obvious that local circumstances were not perceived quite well at political level. I dare say that there was still one last week, and even at the beginning of this week. Do you admit that there have also been political errors in this school?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U26	Thank you. First of all, I want to say thank you for one episode. I watched last night's First Studio as a video when my duties in Helsinki were over. I want to say thank you for this, I would say, seeking a balanced compromise with Mailis Reps. Now, you're asking if any mistakes have been made. You yourself have been the guardian of this agreement for some months when you were the Minister of Education and Science. In the case of Kohtla-Järve, three parties have survived this agreement: the Social Democrats, the Reform Party and the Centre Party. I think all these three parties have always wanted one in their souls: wishing that Kohtla-Järve's educational level would rise so that Kohtla-Järve's level of learning of Estonian would rise so that young Kohtla-Järve's youth, whose native language is not Estonian, would receive better education in Estonian and their level would be C1 at the end of the gymnasium. We have certainly also wished that the Estonian mindset and the patriotism of Estonia be strengthened there. I think it's all in the right direction. You ask whether or not something could have been done differently from 2014 onwards. I don't think we should choose a whole new direction. I think this fundamental direction is the right one. I think it is important for all of us to make an effort to ensure that this school is not only in Estonian as soon as possible, but there are one hundred percent of all hours in Estonian. And I think here we could put our backs together more as politicians instead of digging ditches between us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U27	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U28	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I'm an alumni at this Lake High School. And maybe I'm more familiar with these things than anyone else, including you and the Minister of Education. My wish has never been to make this matter political, I have wanted to find solutions. These problems began to accumulate sharply in November. But that's it. My wish is to come to a final solution. You were talking about politicisation here at the beginning. It has been very bad to read the articles and some statements of your party associates. For example, Lasnamäe district manager accused of trying to keep Estonians and Russians separate. You know very well that Kohtla-Järve Estonians are studying with the Russians.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U29	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U30	Would you also remind your partymates that this must not be made political?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U31	Thank you. First of all, from the beginning and the end of your question. At the beginning of your question, you referred to what I was saying here earlier, and at the end you asked whether I would remind the partymates. I'll start with what I talked about today first. If your neighborhood is in Ida-Virumaa and you have studied at Kohtla-Järve Järve School, then you should be very well aware of the meaning of spreading and forcing false news, completely false news. Unfortunately, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Maris Lauri, you also did so on your Facebook page yesterday. As a good person in this area, I believe you know very well that no 79 municipalities in the Republic of Estonia have a flag of the Russian Federation. Nor does it fly because there will be a member of the Riigikogu or a member of the government. I think that's a very dangerous tendency that is now. We're playing with fire, as I told Mr. Martin Helme. He was very thoughtful, I hope he understood what I was thinking. I really hope so. Now for the purpose of not having separate schools. I recall the campaign of the 200 Estonian tram stops poster. Whether it was done right or wrong is a question of its own, but I really don't want some to be in one corner and others to be in the other corner. I would like Kohtla-Järve State Gymnasium as 100% Estonian-language school to start working as soon as possible. You asked me to remind the district manager of Lasnamäe one thing. I will remind everyone: we do not have the right to destroy our country, to destroy the cohesion of our country. We have to keep it and protect it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U32	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U33	Thank you. You said earlier that there was no EKRE telling the Russians to leave. We never said anything like that. We have always said that we believe that Estonia is a nation state where everyone must speak Estonian, and the Estonian education system must work for this. Who doesn't understand it really needs to think about whether it is suitable for him to live in Estonia. But I think it is far worse that your government and your Ministry of Education are now clearly telling Estonians in their practical activities in Ida-Virumaa: get out of here! Estonian children in Kohtla-Järve are told: "Get out of here! ' Estonian parents in Kohtla-Järve are told: 'Get out of here! Your government doesn't care about you, your concern doesn't matter! ' The Minister of Education won't even get there until the atmosphere gets so hot politically that some kind of facial rescue attempt needs to be made. I have a question. You're saying we should study together, we can't have separate schools. What is the proportion: how many Estonian children are there who will study with the Russians in this school in the Russian-speaking school environment? How much can be kept in this school in the language of the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U34	A hundred percent! Those Estonian-speaking children who wish, and not only Estonian-speaking children, but also second-language children who are able to study in Estonian, this option is one hundred percent. When we talk about a relationship of 60:40 or some lectures, it is said that 60% is taught not in Russian, but in Estonian. I also want to say that if you are so serious about this education, Mr Helme, please take the example of Jõhvi High School. When it started in 2015, there was also a ratio of 60 to 40. In my opinion, Jõhvi Gymnasium is a positive example of the Estonian educational landscape. Now, as far as I know, that 60% has gone up and 40% has gone down. And I think it's the right way. I very much hope that the same will happen in Kohtla-Järve State Gymnasium, where these percentages are 100: 0. For that, I am certainly willing to work every day and every hour. What you and the Reform Party want to do, and yesterday also shared the first number of the Free Party in one region very energetically, is really playing with fire. It's a really evil challenge, and that's what I'm against. I think it is my job to ensure that there are no such provocations, no such false news, and that their content never becomes a reality. And I hope that this is not the interest of the EKRE voters either. I'm actually convinced of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U35	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U36	Now Jüri Adams is asking the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U37	Mr. Island! During your period of ministering, no political decision has been made that the state of Estonia will decisively put its hands on the restoration of the Church of Tartu. I hope, however, that your personal opinion on this has become more positive than it was when I first told you about this matter. I'm based on the assumption that you and your party are likely to have a period of difficult years, or a period of calmer reflection. Perhaps you have to inform us that you have been preparing that your successor will be working towards a positive solution for the future of the Church of Mary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U38	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good guests! I thank you very much for this question and for the beautiful ironic note that this question contained. The church of Tartu Mary certainly has a dignified history, just as many of the temples that we have in Estonia. It's our luck. I would very much like to congratulate the Foundation Tartu Maarja Church, who has enthusiastically taken the tow of this church to fix it. And I would certainly like to acknowledge your work, Jüri Adams, a honourable member of the Riigikogu, that you have brought into force an association of members of the Riigikogu in support of the Church of Mary. You're the chairman. And it has probably played a significant role in the Riigikogu's decision to allocate additional resources for the organisation of the Tartu Church when discussing this year's budget. That's a total of 47000 euros from my memory. So the state has made an additional extraordinary provision for ordering the church of Tartu Mary. And fortunately, the city of Tartu has realized that the municipality, in whose territory such a dignified church is located, should also contribute to it. Several private starters have also supported it, and I very much hope that the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church, which is predominantly the owner of the Lutheran temples, will contribute to this process as well. As you well know, at the end of last year, the government allocated them EUR 6.8 million, for which church policy choices can certainly be made in favour of repairing existing church buildings.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U39	George Adams, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U40	Thank you. I didn't get the answer I was hoping for. I imagine the others have this problem, too, that they have their own wallet, but even if there's money in it, they've made their own plans. I am grateful to you and your coalition mates for the opportunity to direct my so-called 'roof money' there. Otherwise, the restoration of this church would progress at a slower pace. But here's my question. I don't really know the ministry you've been running. Who is the official in the ministry, either by name or by post, who is the most decisive adviser to the future minister on such matters? Whom should the people of Mary's Church communicate with in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U41	Thank you for this question. I will explain to you how this will work in the Estonian state, if these rules are followed, how it is possible to apply for funding. In recent years, the National Heritage Board has had around 1.5 million euros to distribute grants during the call for proposals. As far as I am aware, the Church of Mary has not addressed the National Heritage Board at all during this call for applications in recent years, and if not asked, it will not be possible to obtain any money. The last time they asked for money in 2015 was like some kind of stair-related work, and then the money was also allocated. Unfortunately, it has not been asked in recent years and it will not be possible to separate it either. The Riigikogu may make any decisions between the second and third reading of the budget on the basis of its recognition and grant additional appropriations without the expert committee having further assessed one or the other request. We generally follow the rules, and so the National Heritage Board adheres to the rules. If there is no application, no grant shall be granted at the discretion of the applicant. This amount was increased by EUR 1.4 million this year, which is intended for the state to help owners carry out certain work in protected buildings. If it can be used effectively, it depends, among other things, on your decision today whether you will make the Heritage Protection Act more modern and flexible or whether it will remain dragged as it is in its current form. I very much hope that the Riigikogu will take full responsibility for this and help us to make a significant contribution to our owners. As for the question of whose back door should go in and start looking at his thighs, this cannot be done in our ministry at the moment. But as you pointed out, there will most likely be another minister there soon, and you will probably be able to ask him how he will shape this policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U42	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue on the subject of the Church of Tartu. This year it's 150 years since our first singing party. The Church of Mary of Tartu has a very honorable place in our history, and I very much hope that her meaning will be great today. In the context of the anniversary of the first Song Festival, how does the Ministry of Culture support the recording of the worthy place of the Church of Tartu this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U44	Thank you! The Song Festival events are organized by the Estonian Song and Dance Party Foundation and the dignified panels have agreed that since we are still celebrating the 150th anniversary of the first Song Festival, the celebration of the anniversary will begin in Tartu. It is a series of events that include concerts, among other things, and I think that they are also trying to perform a concert in the Church of Tartu. These concerts are organized in cooperation with the Estonian Song and Dance Festival Foundation and significantly with the resources provided by the state, which are intended to mark the anniversary year. I am convinced that this will be a dignified and moody event. And I'm very pleased when things really go according to plan, and that's how this historic church building can be used. Of course, there will be a singing party and a dance, just as usual, at Tallinn Song Festival Square and Kalev Stadium. In cooperation with Tallinn City, we have worked hard to make the singing field considerably safer than it has been in recent years, and also somewhat nicer. And so is Kalev Stadium, where there's a dance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U45	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U46	The next question to Minister of Culture Indrek Saare is submitted by Henn Põlluaas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U47	Thank you. You've been delusional over and over, as if EKRE wanted to close the theatres. Now you're going to history as a minister, who has long history that requires Old Baskin's comedy theater to close its doors because of the withdrawal of support. If the EKRE becomes a government, it will, by the way, give that support back. The money was claimed to have been taken away from six theatres, but it is not quite true: others have never received support before, so it was actually taken away from the Baskin Theatre. This support was so small, it's more than weird that there wasn't enough. While, for example, you allocated a million euros from the budget to the Vulgar Marxist NO99 theatre, even though this project had already closed its doors due to the lack of an audience. Why are you doing this? Doesn't that seem strange to you guys?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U48	Thank you for your question, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. First of all, I don't know if it makes you sad or happy, but in the light of the latest news, I feel like I can't go down in history as a minister who's closed down the Baskin Theatre. Even you can't say that. Firstly, private theatres are not opened or closed by the Minister of Culture or the Ministry of Culture, are opened by private individuals and are closed by private individuals. It's their decision. Or bailiffs, as Jüri Adams quite rightly mentioned. Secondly, the news has spread relatively quickly. Yesterday we learned from the media that the Old Baskin Theatre is about to close the doors. I didn't have any information about that until yesterday morning when the press release came in. Today, just over 24 hours later, I hear that the city of Tallinn has come to help. I'm very happy. We have had the opportunity to cooperate on several cultural issues with the city of Tallinn, as I referred to in the answer to the previous question. For example, the city of Tallinn decided not to support the Tallinn Art Hall from this year, but the Ministry of Culture will continue to do so. The Tallinn Art Hall did not make a press release to close the doors for this purpose. And so this year the City Government of Tallinn found additional resources to support the Old Baskin Theatre. I hope these instruments will give the Old Baskin Theatre a chance to continue. Because I would really like the Estonian theatre to be as diverse as possible. However, I am not in a position to advise the Commission, set up by law and monitoring the criteria that have been agreed upon in this area, on their decisions. It's an important principle. And this is just as important a principle as the one I referred to in the previous answer: that it doesn't work the way that you go out the back door to get your ass kicked.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U49	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U50	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, It is a pleasure to ask you questions for the last time in this House! The history of the Old Baskin Theatre begins when, under certain circumstances, Mr Baskin lost the Old Town Studio, which went to the NO99 Theatre. If you read Mr. Baskin's memories now, years later, there will be an emotional blow, a blow, the trauma caused by such action against him. As you know, Mr Minister of Culture, you have personally been very closely involved in this saga, or rather, you have been involved in this story when Mr Baskin was thrown on the street and the theatre was played into the hands of NO99. Why don't you tell me more about this background? What was your role and importance in this saga, which has now culminated in the fact that the ministry you run now also watered down the Basque theatre?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U51	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U52	Thank you for your question. First of all, this day and the support of the Old Baskin Theatre. I am pleased that in Estonia in general, in the field of culture, there are always those who have ideas to do much more than the resources to share. We're always trying to find more resources, but there's never enough money to get enough for anyone who wants to do something about culture. This is the way the Commission has always played a very difficult role: the Commission must always say 'no' to someone and often reduce the amount of support that is being asked. This is the decision of this committee. On the basis of the criteria agreed with the sector, the Commission has already decided by 2017 that there is no reason to allocate money to the Old Baskin Theatre in this round on the basis of these criteria. As Minister for Culture, I took note of the Commission's decision because I did not have any important arguments against it, but in order for the theatre to have time to reorganize its activities, I found an additional amount of EUR 30000 in the same order of magnitude as they had been allocated a year earlier for a transitional period of the year. The leader of the old Baskin Theatre knew very well that the Commission had taken such a decision. He's admitted it himself in the interviews. I gave them an additional amount for the transitional period, but for the second year in a row there is no reason to say that it is now a transitional year again, even though the Commission has made its prudent decision. And if you want to go down in history, we must look at the whole context that has changed in the diversity of Estonian theatres since 2005: how many performances are given in Estonia, how many theatres there are. This picture has changed completely. It makes no sense for us to go back to 2005, when the Old Baskin Theatre was created, and to say that the conditions are exactly the same. No, it's not! The picture has become much, much more diverse and better.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U53	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U54	Thank you. Estonia is such a small frog pond that it is very well known how much and where the Minister intervenes. So that's all I have to say. Yeah, well, the theater's gonna stay, like I heard from you, and that's great. But you're still going down in history as a minister who tried to destroy it. And this is not the first time that you have stabbed the Basque theatre, as my colleague has already mentioned. Together with Tiit Ojasoo, you once participated in the liquidation of the Old Town studio, the exorcism of the founder of the actors and theatre Eino Baskin, and the creation of NO99 with left ideology and mental violence. To NO99, you found disproportionate, huge subsidies, as if there were urination on stage, pollution and other avant-garde vulgarities and perversions without any common culture, high and noble art. Whether it was some sort of personal or broader vendetta against the Baskin Theatre, the withdrawal of money and all that earlier...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U55	Thank you. Time's long gone! [[H. The field road continues to tell what is not to be heard.]] Henn Põllamaas, please write down a question you can ask in one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U56	It is difficult to thank you for this question. First of all, your claims contain contradictions. On the one hand, you have said that in my time, the NO theater was shut down, and on the other hand, you say I've been pampering them. So which one have I done? Have I been pampering them, or have I locked them up? I'm telling you, I haven't done either. I have also acted on this theatre on the basis of the rules that have been agreed upon in the field and on the basis of all the laws. If you want to go back to 2004, what was the situation at the time? For the third time, the Old Town studio was in a management crisis and deeply in debt. A new concept was sought for this theater. That year, Tiit Ojasoo, who invited me to help, ran for it. The theater was in debt to the neck, but the theatre was given to Tiit Ojakogu in the knowledge that his concept was exactly what Tiit Ojasoo did through the years. It also required reorganization in the theatre. Of course, it was humanly very harsh to make such choices, but these were the conditions that were given. And in these circumstances, we had to act because no one paid for the disadvantages caused by past mismanagement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U57	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U58	Now Aivar Sõerd asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U59	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! We will continue with this question, which was put by Mr Eenmaa in Question Time last Wednesday. We are talking about taxation on the income tax of working pensioners. I've been trying to understand the new income tax system, but there are still some things that are very incomprehensible. Working pensioners lost much more than other taxpayers because of the new income tax system. Pensioners who are employed have a pension and pay tax on income from the first euro, starting with a certain level of income. That is why I am asking what the objective of higher taxation of working pensioners is. Is the objective of excluding working pensioners from the labour market, or are you filling the budget gap that has caused excise revenue to Latvia by collecting income from working pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U60	Thank you, good questioner. I want to say that I am seriously concerned that the credibility of the Reform Party will melt like spring snow in the sun. This intimidation, the sowing of false news by your party is massive. But to you, Mr. Aivar Sõerd, I want to say thank you. You want to investigate, you really want to understand, as you said today. In any case, your approach is much better than the main line of your party. My answer to you is that no person's income tax rate for all his incomes is or can be more than 20%. When we talk about working old-age pensioners, we have preliminary statistics that say: 63% of them won, 2% did not change anything and 35% must contribute more. If we look at the general picture of the rise in the tax-free minimum, we see that 86% either had a win or the situation remained the same, I am now talking about all the beneficiaries and 14% have to contribute more to society. Take, for example, the different tax rates on gross wages. For example, we take EUR 1200 in gross wages: in 2017 their income tax rate was 16.3%, currently 10.9%. If we take EUR 1 500 gross wages, they would have to pay 16.9% before the reform, now 14.8%. As you can see, the victories are clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U61	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U62	Thank you. I understand that you think it is fair that, from a certain level of income, both pensions and salaries are taxed on income tax from the first euro. But this is not the only problem in the Income Tax Act. Recently, it became apparent that those on maternity leave at the end of the year would have to pay unfairly more income tax to the State due to a misguided income tax law. The representative of the coalition, your party partner, the Chairman of the Monetary Commission and also the Chairman of the Group promised to solve this problem, but now this solution has been dealt with between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. No one wants to deal with it, even though you promised to solve the problem. I am asking you: how will you solve the problem of recipients of maternity benefits at the end of this year? And when are you gonna solve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U63	Thank you. We're gonna settle this in a fair way. In this way, which I have already explained to you in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. First of all, it is understandable that improvements are needed in this respect. And they'll come in any case by 2022. Now that we're talking about 2018, you're only taking one year. But as a good financialist, you should know that you need to look at the whole period. We need to look at two years, both 2018 and 2019, instead of taking part in it again. On the other hand, what you said is right. And indeed, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs are now working to bring forward the solution that will exist by 2022 in order to find a solution more quickly. And I am absolutely convinced that, in the end, this basis has in any case become fairer and also more correct. The previous calculation depended on whether it was 1 January just or 31 December, which under no circumstances was fair. Now we're going to look back at this calculation a little bit longer, and it's going to be more accurate in any case. So the same views I told you before. And two ministries are working to find a solution earlier than 2022. And on the other hand, really, anyway, we're gonna start paying it in parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U64	Dear Aivar Sõerd, when I said at the beginning of Question Time that I would give an opportunity to ask a more specific question, that is what I was thinking. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U65	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U66	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! Hopefully, the next prime minister will be from our party. There are serious issues to be resolved, one of which is definitely the situation of Estonians in the Estonian nation state, which we want to preserve. I'm going to rhyme my story to Ida-Virumaa, of course. As you know, you are also very familiar with the case where five conscripts were beaten up by a conscript, and this is said to have happened in the Viru Infantry Battalion in Jõhvi. But that's what it is. We have received very specific information that it has happened repeatedly in this very infantry battalion that the Russian-speaking conscripts are not subject to Estonian-language commands, for example, they will sing the anthem of the Russian Federation when they sing the anthem of the Republic of Estonia. Such irregularities are persistent and cause major problems. You have repeatedly emphasised that people living in the Republic of Estonia are all our people. Are these people also our people who deliberately violate the order of the Republic of Estonia and do not obey the orders given in the Defence Forces in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U67	Thank you. You can't, of course, ruin the order. That anthem's singing description, it's unheard of! There can be no such thing. But if you ask whether everyone who lives here in Estonia is our people, then yes, no matter what their way of life is, whether they are operating in the Riigikogu or in the private sector, be it in Ida-Virumaa or Läänemaa, and also those who are upset with things and maybe try to improve their minds. I think all these 1.3 million are really our people. I understand that your question relates primarily to what took place on 9-10 February on the military campus of Jõhvi in the Viru battalion. I have the following to say about this. First of all, there was indeed a case where five conscripts attacked a modern - day minister who made a remark to them earlier. Five young men were remarked because they chose to ignore the order to attend the battalion's economic day. Currently, the case is being investigated by both the military and the prosecutor's office, as disciplinary violations and criminal cases. Those who resorted to physical violence can, of course, expect punishment, as our order and laws foresee. What I want to say is that I have also spoken directly to the people of the Defence Forces about this question of Question Time. I've been asking if it could have been a conflict on national soil. It was said that at present there is no reason to claim that this was a conflict on the surface of a nation. At the same time, I would like to point out to you that the investigation is ongoing, and once it is completed, it can be stated with certainty what surface it came from.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U68	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U69	Thank you. The question of the beating incident certainly concerned a small part of the much bigger problem that I referred to in my first question. The problem is more precisely the suitability of those who deliberately undermine and oppose the security, independence of the Republic of Estonia. And even worse: they receive military training and thus gain experience and experience in defending Estonia's independence. Do you consider this to be a serious security threat if there are too many Russian-speaking conscripts in a military unit compared to Estonians, who receive military training and at the same time openly engage in undermining the independence of the Republic of Estonia and insulting the state and not obeying orders? Do you think that this is a security threat that needs to be given more attention without political correctness?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U70	Any activity in both public and non-public spaces that undermines Estonia's independence, as a state under our feet acting independently and democratically, is a very big problem. This certainly includes treason, one of the most serious crimes. So it must be opposed in every place, at every moment and in every position, such things must not happen in our country. Military service in the Defence Forces is certainly right, it's patriotic upbringing. It provides very good physical training, knowledge, and also very practical skills for a large number of young people. For example, you can get a driver's license. And it will certainly ensure that these young women and men in the future will be able to protect our country and our independence well, if necessary, and they will do so at any moment, at any time. I very much hope that you will also do everything here at the end of this XIII term in order to maintain Estonia's unity and coherence. I have 25 seconds left until the end of this Question Time. I would like to say that I have had the honour of attending 57 Question Time sessions in XIII and of answering 241 questions. On behalf of the entire government, I thank the XIII composition, all members of the Riigikogu, that you have stood up for the Estonian and Estonian people! I wish you a lot of strength in the last few working days of this composition and, of course, good luck to you in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U71	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, ministers. It's 1:59.42. The final Question Hour of the XIII Riigikogu is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U72	Honourable Riigikogu! We'll start the Wednesday session on the fifth working week. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Siret Eagle-Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U73	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to hand over the final report on the work of the Riigikogu on the resolution of the population crisis. The main result of the Commission's work is the development of 'Principles of Public Policy until 2035'. This report contains 13 recommendations for tackling the population crisis. I would like to thank all the scientists, stakeholders and experts who contributed to the development of the document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U74	Thank you for your report. Incoming check, please! Currently there are 76 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U75	The first item on our agenda is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to impose sanctions on attacking and grabbing Ukrainian foundations in Kerch Strait (782 OE). Andres Herkel will make a presentation on behalf of the initiators. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U76	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, on 18 December, the Free Party Group initiated this decision 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic to impose sanctions on the attack and capture of Ukrainian vessels in the Strait of Kerch'. This attack took place on 25 November, and since then these crew members are known to be incarcerated until now. In other words, it is both a violation of international law and a violation of the human rights of individual people. The Riigikogu has responded gratefully quickly to this statement made on 3 December, which calls, among other things, for the release of Ukrainian ships with seafarers to enable them to move to Ukrainian ports without hindrance. Among other things, the Riigikogu expressed the view that sanctions against Russia should be continued and extended in the developed situation. We saw the problem in this case that, at least in the initial phase, the international response was rather sluggish, although the attack was serious. This led to the initiative of the Free Party Group. I would also stress here that, although the procedure does not allow individual ambassadors to join the initiative, two more members of the Riigikogu gave their symbolic signature: Mr Nutt and Mr Põlluaas. Why them? But because the speaker here and these two members of the Riigikogu have placed the Russian Federation under a visa ban. There is no justification for this. The same has been done with other Estonian public figures, although there is no obvious reason for this. There is, however, a reason to sanction the authorities of the Russian Federation, whose support and active involvement led to this act of aggression against Ukraine. Such sanctions are necessary and internationally understandable. We are also of the opinion that Estonia should be an active carrier in such matters, and Parliament in turn can be a carrier of the government. I would also like to remind you here that we have previously amended the law on the obligation to leave and the ban on entry in such a way that it responds to the so-called Magnitski law's call to impose sanctions not only specifically against Sergei Magnitski's repressors, torturers, but also more generally against people who have either directly violated human rights or contributed to human rights violations by their actions. In particular, then, we have identified four names. When you start at the back of the bill, the most recent one in this list, Aleksei Pushkov, is perhaps the most famous figure. Former so-called "Minister of Justice' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. He is spreading accusations about Ukraine and supports aggression. Member of the State Duma is also General Colonel Piskarov, Chairman of the Committee on Security and Anti-Corruption. As far as we know, he was preparing for the award by the State Duma of the border guards who committed an act of aggression. And there are two men on the list with FSB background: one general and one Rear Admiral. These are Vladimir Kulišov, First Deputy Director of the Federal Security Service, Head of the Border Guard Service, and Sergei Stankevich, Rear Admiral, Head of the Regional Border Guard Service of the occupied Crimea and Sevastopol. We believe that sanctions against these persons are justified in every way. I am pleased to note here that, given that two months have now passed since the draft was tabled, the European Union is also moving in the direction of sanctions, or sanctions, against specific people. The European Union Foreign Ministers' Summit on Monday was very clear about this, but I think it can be called an advance agreement, not a final decision. That's why I'd like to finish the introductory statement. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U77	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Could you open up the role of parliaments in imposing such sanctions a little more broadly? How common is that? Or is what we are discussing here, something very extraordinary?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U79	Thank you. The Riigikogu was faced with this issue when we dealt with the draft law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry. Originally, we were presented with the Magnitski list of people, made up of a large number of people, against whom Estonia should impose sanctions, but in the end, a general framework was created at the legislative level, in a way that we can sanction certain people on the basis of which we can sanction them. By the way, Estonia, along with Latvia, Lithuania, Canada, the United States and Great Britain, is among those countries that have followed the Magnitski Act either by amending or adopting legislation. But at the time, we did not go to the level of legislation to name specific individuals. This draft is a proposal to the Government of the Republic. When the Riigikogu takes such an initiative, it is quite clear that it has finally been said that we consider it entirely natural if, in that case, the Government of the Republic supplements this list. As long as these targeted clear sanctions are implemented. One important document that I am happy to present in response to this question is the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which was adopted just recently, at the end of January. It was presented by Lord Donald Anderson, a member of the British Parliament, and its title goes something like this: 'Sergei Magnitski and his associated 'to combat impunity by means of targeted sanctions'. In essence, the Council of Europe and the Member States of the European Union, as well as the countries with cooperation with the Council of Europe, are invited to use laws and other legal instruments to ensure that governments, in the leadership and supervision of parliaments, impose targeted sanctions against people who are personally responsible for or contributed to serious human rights violations. This is where the host country itself has not used any sanctions for political or corrupt reasons. In essence, this is a call for all democratic countries and their parliaments to address such issues. I had the opportunity to speak on behalf of Estonia when this report was adopted and to introduce, among other things, the statement of the Riigikogu that we adopted here following the Kerch aggression, and also to introduce our Magnitski law as the amendment of the exit obligation and prohibition of entry law into Magnitski law. There was also a very clear call, which is entirely natural in politics: if governments are more diplomatically restrained or modest in some positions, it is precisely the Parliaments' duty to initiate processes that draw attention to serious human rights violations. Governments need to be pressured to ensure that sanctions in this regard are actually applied.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U80	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U81	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I just have a pragmatic question about the one person you have on this list and who has an explanation closed down that he is spreading accusations about Ukraine and supporting aggression. Do you also have a concrete example of these accusations against Ukraine and of acts or statements supporting his aggression?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U82	Thank you for your question. I do not have a nice quote at hand right now, but I can say that I worked with Alexei Pushkov at a time when Russia still had the right to vote at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, with several committees together, and he blamed Ukraine quite a bit at the time in the big hall. What statements, articles and statements has he made in the meantime? There's a lot of them. His statements against Ukraine, which justify occupation, are day-to-day, as well as all kinds of critical statements about Western countries and liberal democracy. There's a lot of them. But I would also use this question to raise the question of whether the four individuals we have highlighted here could overlap with those on whom the European Union has begun the process of imposing a Union-wide sanction. At the same time, we assume that the circle of people who could be sanctioned is actually much wider. Since the person against whom sanctions are being considered has not been made public, I cannot say anything specific about this. However, we have received signals that I have no reason not to believe that the common part of the list of persons we have proposed and the list of potential sanctions for the European Union are entirely there. Whether the European Union list includes Mr Pushkov, I do not know what to say at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U83	No further questions for the originator. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Mart Nutt. The Committee on Foreign Affairs? Look, I'm sorry! The Foreign Affairs Committee waitress is Mart Nutt. This is what it means when a person has been in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for decades. The cry and the constitution are already coming together. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U84	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft... I'm sorry! I'm wrong, too! The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this draft, including at its meeting on 14 February. Marko Mihkelson and other members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Andres Herkel, Mart Nutt and Toomas Paur Oudekki as alternate members, took part in this meeting. Birgit Keerd-Leppik also participated as an advisor, Ivar Mölder as an advisor and Laura Särg as a reporter. Sten Schwede, Director of the Foreign and Security Policy Office of the European Union, and Kaisa Laever, Director of the Political Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as Ruth Annus, Head of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of Interior, were also invited to the discussion. At the discussion of this draft, Andres Herkel gave an introduction, followed by a debate. The chairman of the committee raised the question that he felt that this was a precedent proposal, as Parliament had previously not recommended that the names of individual persons be included in the document in the case of sanctions for refusal of entry. On this point, I can quite simply say that this really is a precedent. The Riigikogu has usually not put names in its statements, but there are no restrictions on the government when making a proposal. So in this sense, the initiating group, or the Free Party Group, can do so completely. However, the condition is that this proposal must receive the support of at least the majority of the composition in the Riigikogu. And even in this case, the proposal is not directly binding on the government. The government can and may not rely on it. In principle, the Riigikogu would express its position with this decision. During the debate, Sten Schwede explained that the European Union is currently coordinating the addition of the targeted list of sanctions. Kaisa Laever, a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, added that the Member States of the European Union have proposed to include persons involved in events in the Kerch Strait under the regime relating to the territorial integrity of Ukraine. Negotiations are under way on this subject, but specific names could not yet be mentioned during the Commission's meeting. Ruth Annus, representative of the Ministry of the Interior, pointed out that the obligation to leave and the ban on entry can only be subject to a Schengen entry ban if a person is in danger of national security or public order. This is a direct consequence of European Union law. This may lead to the fact that the entire Schengen area is not covered by the ban on these persons, even if the Riigikogu makes its proposal and the government makes its decision in accordance with this proposal. But Estonia has the right to impose entry restrictions and visa bans on certain persons. This is the sovereign right of Estonia, so Estonia can do so in any case. Chairman of the committee Marko Mihkelson drew attention to the opinion of the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, according to which the preamble to the original text of the draft decision conflicts with § 7 of the current International Sanctions Act, which states that the Government of the Republic decides to impose an international sanction by law on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs rather than the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as in the draft. As a result, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs made an amendment to the draft and corrected this error. There is therefore one amendment to the draft. No amendments were tabled by the Riigikogu; this is the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I'm not going to go any further here. Talk generally revolved around these same sanctions and problems. I will also mention the procedural decisions taken by the Commission. First of all, I have already mentioned the amendments, it is also on your table in the form of a table. The Commission made the following proposals: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 19 February (by Marko Mihkelson, Andres Herkel, Mart Nutt and Toomas Paur) and to appoint Mart Nutt (as well as a consensual decision) as rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I repeat what is needed for the adoption of this draft. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft and this vote takes place today, as it is only processed at one reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U85	Honourable Riigikogu! I hope you'll forgive Mart Nut and me our language slips. Now questions for the waitress. Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U86	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Did you also have a debate in the Commission on what will happen if today's draft decision is supported? I am, like, more interested in the position of officials as to whether we are in a correct hurry to come up with some names while we are, I understand, drawing up this list across Europe. And do you see for yourself the possibility that, one and a half weeks before the elections, the government will start imposing such sanctions as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U87	Thank you. It is difficult for me to answer about the correctness, but in a parliamentary state, the parliamentary group can make any proposals to the government in accordance with the Constitution and the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure Act. In this case, the Free Party Group has done so and in this sense everything is legitimate. As far as the government's actions are concerned, unfortunately, I have no information about this. It's the government's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U88	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, This is a certain conflict. The conflict usually has at least two sides. There are a lot of video and audio materials, there are descriptions, there are documents that describe what happened in Kerch Strait. Did the Commission not understand what you were saying and have examined the factual aspects of what was going on? Have you even learned what really happened there?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U90	Thank you. The Commission dealt with this issue just before we decided to process the statement of support from the Riigikogu in connection with the crisis in Kerch Strait. In the context of the draft we are discussing today, this issue has not been brought back into depth. I only specify so much that, yes, there may be two parties in the conflict, there may be more parties, but in this particular case there is a single country's aggression against another country, and this puts this conflict in special light.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U91	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. Oudekki Loone, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, The pre-elections start tomorrow, and it's not even far from election day. However, I would like to keep in mind that life will continue after the elections, let us not allow ourselves to be led in this Chamber by the panicking feeling that maybe I have not seen every voter or fear of subsequent ratings! The voters can see what work we do here, and they can appreciate it. Unfortunately yesterday, members of the Free Party and Reform Party spread a false news in social media that in Kohtla-Järve, Russia's tricolor was raised in the event of a visit by Mailis Reps. Wrong! In fact, there was just an official delegation from Novgorod in town. For several days, the government has been trying to give the impression that Kohtla-Järve wants to lose education in Estonian. Wrong! Even in the planned state gymnasium, it is possible to study either 100% in Estonian or 60% in Estonian. Estonian-language school education is guaranteed until there is one child who wants to study in Estonian. Today, we are trying to convert foreign policy into some sort of change, which is not a state-manly activity. We must not link the current issues of Estonian foreign policy to the election campaign. This is damaging to us, and there is no meaningful point in this debate today. Why do there exist in our democratic system the direction of Parliament towards the government? Because sometimes the executives lose their strategic picture, and Parliament will then have the right and duty to draw attention to problematic areas. Foreign policy, including how it makes sense to react to events in the Kerch Strait, is actively dealt with by the government every day. And being members of NATO and the European Union, we react to it with our allies, not running, in the hands of a torch, in any direction. On Monday, our Foreign Minister and his colleagues discussed the issue of the Kerch Strait and possible joint reactions, wishing to guarantee security in our region, seeking to reduce conflicts, wishing to have good neighbourly relations in our immediate neighbourhood. Therefore, this draft does not make any sense in substance. It is simply a desire to pull out of our pocket some sort of drawn Russian card and get election points as Russia's biggest enemy, without thinking that this is how we will break Estonia's balanced foreign policy. Just as the false news about Kohtla-Järve inverts our national relations and creates unnecessary fear and mistrust between ordinary Estonians. The Centre Party does not participate in such tricks. We will also be able to bear responsibility at the end of the election period, focusing on real work instead of spinning sand. To this political game here, we say, 'No, thank you! We're not part of this. " I personally, after giving this speech, leave the hall. I don't want to witness this farce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U93	The procedure for dealing with the draft decisions of the Riigikogu of this kind requires that the representatives of the political groups take the floor in the negotiations. Andres Herkel, please, on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. While I sat in about the same position as Margus Tsahkna now, an experienced representative of social democrats, Eiki Nestor, came to the remote and named my name so that in such situations I could express my opinion, which should be the sacred right of members of the Riigikogu, including the sacred right of Margus Tsahkna, both in this and in the next composition. That is why I name Margus Tsahkna's name, which would allow him to speak for at least two minutes. To Oudekki Loonei I want to say that he did leave the hall, that we really are not discussing the Kohtla-Järve question here, but another question. However, the draft decision was submitted two months ago. Unfortunately, the Commission has brought it before the Riigikogu on the last day of its composition. Indeed, elections are at the door, but it is not the case that governments resolve these matters. I think Mrs Loone is a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and I think she is also a member of some international delegation that we have formed in the Riigikogu. I would like to emphasise once again this report by Lord Donald Anderson, which is a relatively recent document. I can disband it to all members of the Riigikogu. In essence, this is a call for Parliaments to take the initiative and respond to cases where human rights offenders are going unpunished, and also to put pressure on governments to take these steps. In this sense, we are on the right track, and I think that Parliaments should be more active in this area. Unfortunately, there are too many cases. And if the events of Kerch have so far been mentioned, indeed, mainly in the key to violating international law, which is true, then holding Ukrainian seafarers in prison for such a long time is obviously also a violation of their human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U95	Honourable Riigikogu, as Margus Tsahkna was named during the negotiations, he has the right to object. Margus Tsahkna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U96	Thank you, and also Andres Herkel, for mentioning my name. In short, this issue, which the Free Party has put on the table, is crucial. I would like to congratulate the Riigikogu, which adopted a declaration in which we support Ukraine in relation to the events of the Kerch Strait. Russia clearly acted as an aggressor there. Now, good Riigikogu, the truth is that if we do not support this draft decision, we will give a very clear message to Ukraine, as well as to the general public internationally, that this issue is finished. I strongly urge the members of the Riigikogu to support the draft decision of the Free Party and pass on to the Government of the Republic the wish of the Riigikogu to take steps to impose sanctions. We must recognise that the reactions of the European Union since the events in the Kerch Strait have been very mild and very slow. Indeed, sanctions were imposed at European level this week, or rather sanctions were added. For that, acknowledgment! But the worst thing that can happen now in this Chamber of the Riigikogu is that the draft does not receive the support of the Riigikogu. Think for a moment before this vote and get over this pre-election wish! To think, one small faction, the Free Party has set something up! This is a much broader and broader draft decision, if you may feel it today. So I strongly suggest that we support this bill rather than stand aside. It would be a very bad message that the Riigikogu does not approve of supporting Ukraine. And once again, thanks to the Free Party for the work done! Hopefully, the new composition will go on the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U97	I'm closing the negotiations. Reverend Riigikogu, draft 782 has been tabled one amendment from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There are no complaints, we are going to the final vote. The procedure for dealing with a draft decision containing a proposal to the Government of the Republic of Estonia is such that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the decision. We will therefore do a verification of presence before the vote. Please! There are 55 members of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to impose sanctions on attacking and occupying Ukrainian foundations in the Strait of Kerch. Please take a stand and vote. There were 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 782, against two, with no abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U98	Second reading of the draft law on supplementing the European Union citizen's law and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Commission's rapporteur is Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U99	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Before you are the materials of the second reading of the draft law supplementing the European Union citizen's law and other laws. This is about ensuring legal clarity for UK citizens when the United Kingdom leaves the European Union. The original draft was a regulation designed to regulate the situation of UK citizens in the event of a contractual departure from the European Union. But looking at what's going on around here, we've improved our bill. We want to create a legal situation where, whether the United Kingdom leaves the European Union with or without an agreement, legal clarity is guaranteed. To this end, the Commission has prepared three amendments. The two are substantive and the third regulates the entry into force of these provisions depending on how the British handle their decision-making. The proposal is to conclude the second reading, to support the amendments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and to reach a final vote tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U100	No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. There are three amendments to the draft, all from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and all of them, of course, taken into account: the first, the second, the third. The second reading of bill 781 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U101	Second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating thereto. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Jüri Saar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The 749 bill has been dealt with at different levels for over two years. The Committee on Legal Affairs has also involved the authorised representatives of the Bar Association, the Ministry of Justice and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry in its meetings this year, which took place on 24 January and 14 February. The problem that needed to be resolved was legal clarity, which developed in connection with the Supreme Court decisions made in 2016 and 2017 regarding the issue of SMS loans. During that period, the number of arbitration tribunals increased rapidly in Estonia, which necessitated the judicial review of their activities. In accordance with the procedure laid down, the court must declare the arbitration or arbitration decisions enforceable before enforcement, which essentially means that all arbitration tribunals are to be regarded as interim. In practice, this means a loss in one of the important advantages of the arbitration panel at a speed of was the result of an increase in the procedural process of between three and six months. The purpose of the draft is to organise the system of arbitration tribunals operating in Estonia so that traditional arbitration tribunals here retain the ability to make both domestic and internationally accepted decisions. As a result of the addition of the law, arbitration tribunals operating under the law will have better opportunities to operate in Estonia, as their decisions will no longer have to be subject to judicial review before they are enforced. At its meeting on 14 February, which took place after the first reading, the Commission made three amendments and decided to send the draft to the second reading by 19 February, i.e. yesterday. It's been delayed today. When the second reading is completed, the third reading could be on 21 February. The last drafting amendment was made by the Committee on Legal Affairs on 18 February, setting the date of application of the law as 1 April 2019. In the previous option, the date of the start of validity was left open. All proposals were made by consensus by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U103	Any questions for the waitress? Thank you, Jüri Saar! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Three proposals have been made by the commission to amend the draft. Let's go through them: first, second, third. The second reading of bill 749 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U104	Third reading of the draft law amending the Courts Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, the draft 776 also requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption. Incoming check, please! 72 members of the Riigikogu are present. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Courts initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Please take a stand and vote. by 73 votes to 0, with 0 abstentions. The law amending the Courts Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U105	Third reading of the draft law implementing the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Still is. On behalf of the Jüri Adams Free Party Group. I'm sorry, I didn't notice!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U106	Mr. Chairman! It is not in the third reading in the format we currently have in the Rules of Procedure that there is a particular role to be played in the negotiations. However, it makes sense to say a few words on this draft, because if this kind of draft is repeated, then the problems will be repeated in their case. The first problem is whether we need this kind of bill at all. Of course, it is very good that in one country all laws are absolutely compatible with each other, so that a completely conflict-free whole comes out of computer searches. However, this is not legally necessary in principle. There is no problem at all, and most countries of the world live very happily in such a way that the body of these laws has not been fully harmonised. I would argue that, although the Ministry of Justice has become a habit of doing this type of implementing legislation, the state could live perfectly without them. There are a number of rules. The most important of these is that if the newest law adopted goes against the previously applicable law, the new law will apply even if the old law has not been repealed. The second thing is the question of the format. You see, this is the second case in our membership where the large text of the bill consists of amendments to the laws written in alphabetical order. The first of these was drawn up in the Ministry of Justice, but formally he was presented by a group of individual ambassadors. This was a draft law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act, which never reached adoption. Its text provided for the amendment of more than 50 laws. I don't know how this bill ended up. In the intermediate options, the number of laws to be amended was 132. Someone here claimed that there must have been a bill in one of the Riigikogu's compositions, perhaps in the previous one, that I do not know whether it concerned administrative procedures, administrative arrangements or what had changed the text of more than 170 existing laws. In the meantime, I've been thinking about what this phenomenon is, what we have reason to call a rubber stamp. What we're talking about is definitely one of the subspecies of rubber stamping, but he doesn't have a good name. But since we in the Riigikogu and in the press have become quite well known as the 'cobar bill' or 'cobar law', which is usually dealt with before the state budget, I think that 778 SE is also basically a cluster bill. On the other hand, this is the kind of draft that would normally have changes at the end of the text in a separate section or chapter entitled 'Amendments to other laws'. I'm used to calling this kind of thing the tail of the law. My proposal is to start calling this genre a bunch of tails in the future. Appreciate it, and if anyone can find a better name for this ugly phenomenon, I'd be happy to use it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U107	There is no further wish for negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Draft 778 initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs requires a majority of its component members for adoption. Incoming check, please! 68 members of the Riigikogu registered for office. I am voting on draft law 778 on the implementation of the Personal Data Protection Act initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 61 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 10 against and 1 abstention. The Act on the Application of the Personal Data Protection Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U108	Third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Legal Procedure of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Constitutional Committee. I'm opening negotiations. Jüri Adams, please, on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U109	Thank you, Mr President. For almost 20 years, it has become quite common practice that during the last three working weeks of the Riigikogu, a law amending the Rules of Procedure Act to a greater or lesser extent will be passed. In most cases, these changes have been rather dangerous and have resulted in different negative consequences. At the moment, I would like to say first of all that last Wednesday, when there was a second reading, I realised that the amendments tabled by the members of the Free Party, which were of fundamental importance for the Rules of Procedure, were voted by a majority. There are three of them, and Estonian society and the press will continue to talk about them for as long as the current situation continues. First of all, we proposed that all the amendments tabled can also be put to the vote in plenary in this Chamber. There is currently a restriction that only proposals that have received at least two votes in favour in the Commission can vote. It's not always wise. There are probably many examples from the history of the Riigikogu that if such a rule had been applied earlier, various intelligent laws or amendments would not have been adopted. The second amendment was on who and how groups could be formed. It has not always been the case that only those elected from one electoral list can form a political group and who leave the group must remain 'windows' and 'alone'. I think we need to come back to that. And the third question is about the situation we experienced here today. Margus Tsahkna, who came under the window, wanted to speak from the speaker's desk, but the Rules of Procedure did not allow him to do so. In cooperation with Mr Herkel and the President of the sitting, a small substitution solution was found for the problem and, in principle, members of the Riigikogu should still be equal in terms of speaking opportunities. If these three important changes do not now enter the Rules of Procedure, this means that the next Riigikogu or the next formations will have to come back to these questions several times. But on the whole package, I assure you that this package is of no importance. At the same time, one can quite certainly say that none of the amendments that are in this text are such as to make something worse. Rather, they are just a little bit better at what they are dealing with. So all in all, it is a sympathetic draft, but at the same time, unfortunately, without any significant importance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U110	I will conclude the negotiations and go to the final vote. A majority of membership is also required for the adoption of the 762 SE. Incoming check, please! 69 members of the Riigikogu are present. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Legal Procedure of the Riigikogu initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Law on Constitutional Supervision. Please vote! 70 are in favour, no objectors, no abstentions. Bill 762 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U111	Third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto. I'm opening negotiations. Monika Haukanõmm, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U112	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft provides for additional pressure to be imposed on the evaders from the payment of the maintenance allowance. The aim is to ensure that the debtor complies with the legal obligation to pay for the maintenance of his or her child. According to the information in the explanatory memorandum, there are a large number of parents who do not pay their children a total of 93000, even after a judgment has been given and enforcement proceedings have been initiated. The total amount of maintenance debtors exceeds EUR 60 million. Some of these debtors are unable to make a living because they do not have sufficient income and do not have any other assets for which to make a living. The second part of the debtors, however, is able to pay for their livelihood, but their unwillingness to do so has started to conceal their incomes and other assets. Unofficial income is earned, property is not acquired in their own name, etc. The draft seeks to put pressure, in particular, on those debtors who hide their assets. The lack of maintenance is one of the things that makes the situation of children more difficult. A child's child's livelihood is intended for daily living, so it is really important that children receive the necessary maintenance allowance immediately. It is positive that the Family Benefits Act came into force in 2017, part of which was the renewal of the maintenance aid system and the introduction of maintenance aid during enforcement proceedings. In this way, the state has started to help even more children whose parent has not fulfilled this obligation and has committed itself to paying out maintenance aid. It can be recovered later. Thus, the State has actively dealt with the consequences of maintenance aid disputes, but not prevention. Family law lays down the principle that parents must agree among themselves on matters relating to the child. The law also states that if the parents are unable to agree on matters of care and communication with the child, the dispute will be settled by the court. That is how our courts are flooded with long and exhausting disputes with children at the heart of them. It is important to point out that recourse to court should be a last resort if no other means help. I believe that we all agree that litigation and conflicting relationships between parents are not in the interests of children and harm children. In resolving disputes between parents, the main focus must be on prevention, or reconciliation. Compared to the court, reconciliation has several advantages. People would rather comply with the agreements reached with the family mediator than with judgments that have a strong strain on compulsion and injustice. This is confirmed by the experience of other countries. For example, in the Nordic countries, the focus is on reaching agreements between parents, and these solutions work primarily because the parents have agreed to this. We therefore believe that, in addition to developing methods of pressure on the debtors of maintenance, the focus should be on how parents should be directed out of court to agree on the maintenance of the child. The Chancellor of Justice has also repeatedly stressed that prevention and mediation of child-related agreements must be the main priority in resolving disputes between parents. President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve also pointed out in his interview a few days ago that there are very many disputes in family matters in courts, as we do not have a proper and functioning non-judicial conciliation system that would contribute to this. The development of such a conciliation system is essential and requires public funding and coordination. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U113	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U114	We know that our family mediation is currently offered by the Estonian Conciliators' Association, where the conciliators who have acquired the invitation operate. Unfortunately, the family mediation service is not available throughout Estonia and the price of the service is not affordable for many families. In our electoral programme, we have set as one of the objectives the development of a single national family mediation service aimed at supporting outgoing parents in concluding and mediating agreements between themselves. Again, the focus of the service must primarily be on child-care law, the right to communicate and maintenance issues and their resolution. In the course of this mediation service, an impartial person, or expert, would help dispute parents to arrive at a suitable solution for both parties, especially with regard to the interests of the child. In our view, however, it should be a public service, the availability of which must not depend on the financial situation of the parents or on the local government in which the person lives. This service must be available to all people, to all families in need. Certainly, it is also important that parents be directed to the family mediator before they go to court. If parents are directed to the family mediator on time, they will split up more painfully and the number of litigation will also decrease. It is also important to increase the availability of various counselling services, be it psychologist, family counsellor or someone else, so that every family in need of help can receive the necessary assistance. Estonia's family policy has undergone a dynamic development in recent years, but there are many things that still need to be done in this area. If we can properly start the family mediation system in the coming years, another very important step has been taken for the benefit of the children. I am convinced that a well-functioning national family mediation system will also help to reduce the number of debtors of maintenance. But the most important thing is that in the future, we will have fewer children with sad and broken souls. Good luck to all of us! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U115	There's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations and go to the final vote. Draft 737 also requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law. Incoming check, please! 73 members of the Riigikogu are present. I am voting on the draft law amending the Code of Enforcement Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic and the other laws relating thereto. Please take a stand and vote. There are 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 737, against 2 and no abstentions. The 737 SE has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U116	Third reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations and we are going to the final vote. The 759 bill also requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption. Incoming check, please! 71 members of the Riigikogu are present. I am voting on the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws 759. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 759, against 5, with no abstentions. The law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U117	Third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiations, we are going to the final vote. This, too, is a law requiring a majority in composition. Incoming check, please! 69 members of the Riigikogu are present. I am voting on the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in this regard 658. Please vote! 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the Bill as a law, no respondents or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U118	The third reading of the draft law amending the Government Act and other laws initiated by Riigikogu members Andres Metsoja, Raivo Aegi, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Helir-Valdor Seederi, Priit Sibula, Aivar Koka, Sven Sesteri, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa, Maire Aunaste, Marko Pomerantsi, Mart Nuti, Valeri Korbi, Jaanus Karilaidi, Märt Sults, Inara Luigas and Tanel Talve. I'm opening negotiations. Peeter Ernits, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, is expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U119	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a rather embarrassing bill. On 4 December last year, the patriotic Minister of Justice, Reinsalu, called on us to help with the end of speeding up legislation. 'How to slow down turbo procedures? ' asked the Minister of Justice. The practice so far has shown that if the effects are not analysed, there will be problems with the implementation of the law later. The former Chancellor of Justice Jõks has said that new developments in legal policy could be agreed that the new government will have a legislative conveyor standing a hundred days before the elections and a hundred days after taking office, because the best laws are prepared on the principle: the wise one will not rush. What are we doing now? We're going the other way around. Let's do it, see what comes later! The recommendation of both the Minister of Justice and the former Chancellor of Justice has been like water on the back of a goose. And the funniest thing is, it's all happening inside even one party. Both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Environment belong to the party of Isamaa. But let's get to the point! After all, we are talking about this merger between the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate. Remember, we've been over this. At the beginning of November 13 there was a first reading of in the wriggled bill number 710. Right now, it's almost March, it's number 789. The content is exactly the same. I told you at second reading that this was a head-on rush. The agencies have not been merged yet, but the Director-General has already been elected. By the way, the Director-General has been in office a long time ago, but there is no office he runs. But a man gets paid. And remember, the first trial lasted one month and seven days: the first reading was on 13 November last year and the final vote was on 20 December last year. 49 colleagues pressed the green button, needed 51. They said it was a work accident, and now we're on the second round. The number of the bill has changed: 789. But let's get down to business! There are two establishments. One is the so-called environmental police, there are fewer employees, around 200 employees, but they have better cars, better motivation, higher salaries, a much better organizational culture. And there's almost a half-larger, 350-headed job, with all these things going to be the opposite. Now we put two pots together. Yes, the elected Director-General is already sitting in his chair, but there is no facility yet. And we're going to another circle with the same thing. That's all I want to talk about. It's embarrassing. We have not learned the lesson; it is like the water on the goose's back that has been said by the current Minister for Justice and the previous Chancellor of Justice. We're still running head-on, no hundred days before or after the election, but we're gonna put the authorities together and then we're gonna see what's coming out. After us come or the Flood! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U120	I will conclude the negotiations and go to the final vote. Draft 789 requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu for adoption. Incoming check, please! 57 members of the Riigikogu are present. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws 789. Please take a stand and vote. There are 39 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, 16 against and 1 abstention. The draft was not supported. [[A little applause.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U121	Third reading of the trademark law initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Industrial Design Protection Act and the Act amending other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The draft 765 SE also needs a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption. Incoming check, please! 67 members of the Riigikogu are present. I am voting on the draft law on trademarks initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the protection of industrial design and on the amendment of other laws 765. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting Bill 765 as a law, against 5, with 1 abstention. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U122	Our next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on traffic initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Traffic Act initiated by the Legal Affairs Committee 752. Please take a stand and vote. In favour of 65, there was no one against, one abstention. The law amending the Traffic Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U123	Third reading of the draft law amending the State Statistics Act and the Public Information Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the State Statistics Act and the Public Information Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 794. Please take a stand and vote. 61 votes in favour, no respondents, no abstentions. The Act amending the State Statistics Act and the Public Information Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U124	Third reading of the draft law amending the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. I shall vote on the draft amendment to the Accounting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. For 60, against six, no abstentions. The law amending the Accounting Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U125	Third reading of the Trade Mark Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on the Foundations of Industrial Property Law and the Act amending other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Trademark Act, the Law on Industrial Property and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 793. Please take a stand and vote. There were 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft, 6 against and no abstentions. Bill 793 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U126	Third reading of the draft law amending the Port Act and the Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U127	Honourable Riigikogu! We are going to vote on one of the draft laws that changed considerably during the second reading. When the draft amendment to the Port Act was properly and politely prepared and weighed into the procedure of the Riigikogu, no one opposed it. However, in advance of the second reading, the Ministry submitted one point concerning the Law on liquid fuel, and it has no connection with the Port Act. The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu states that such laws should not be dealt with together. There should be no regulation in one law of things that have no contact with each other. This, of course, is acknowledged by the initiator of the draft and they claim to want to correct one of the norm technical errors in the Liquid Fuel Act, but a closer examination has revealed that this is not a technical detail, but quite a significant question concerning all Estonian entrepreneurs and other consumers. The question is who, how, to what extent and to what extent bio-nutrients must be incorporated into the fuel sold. This change came to us at quite the last moment in the Commission. We have had a few brief conversations about this, but we have not been able to hear all market participants on the ground. The views of market participants vary well, and the perceptions of the effects of both the current law and the new law are very different, even diametrically. Of course, no formal impact analysis has been carried out and no round of engagement has taken place. So, in fact, we are quite grossly violating good legislative practice, which we say here as if we are always defending and talking about how important high-quality legislation is and that we should not shoot the law out of this Riigikogu. Real life is something else. This is another example where two days before the Riigikogu's work is completed, we are being forced into a draft that we have not really been able to discuss thoroughly and the real effects of which are unknown to us. I am not going to dissect the substance of this bill, who is right, who is wrong. The Reform Party certainly does not like this procedure and this practice in Estonian politics must not be introduced. So we are protesting against this procedure by voting against amending the Port Act and the Liquid Fuel Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U128	There's no further call request. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Port Act and the Liquid Fuel Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 780. Please take a stand and vote. The draft law was supported by 34 ambassadors, 25 against, no abstentions. The draft law amending the Port Act and the Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U129	Third reading of the draft Act amending the Industrial Emissions Act and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups have a wish to negotiate? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Since you guys are together nicely, I'm gonna give you a little bit of a shorter call. I am voting on the draft law amending the Industrial Emissions Act and the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic 736. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 57), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 4 votes to 4 with 4 abstentions. The draft law amending the Industrial Emissions Act and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U130	Third reading of the draft International Sanctions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I propose the possibility of negotiating with representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law on international sanctions initiated by the Government of the Republic 721. Please take a stand and vote. 58 delegates voted in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The draft law on international sanctions initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U131	Third reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Rescue Services Act and the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws. The political groups can negotiate. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Since we're in the voting zone, I'm not gonna give you a call for too long. I am voting on the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Rescue Services Act and the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws 768. Please take a stand and vote. 45 delegates voted in favour, 4 against and one abstention. Bill 768 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U132	Third reading of the draft law amending the Defence Forces Organisation Act initiated by the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities. Would the political groups like to negotiate? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the Order of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, 783. Please take a stand and vote. 56 delegates voted in favour of the draft act, no one opposed, with one abstention. The draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U133	Third reading of the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee. Would the political groups like to negotiate? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act, which was initiated by the Committee on Rural Affairs, 788. Please take a stand and vote. 52 delegates voted in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. The draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act initiated by the Rural Affairs Committee has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U134	Third reading of the draft law on plant propagation and plant variety rights initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act on Administrative Cooperation and the amendment of the State Fees Act. I will open negotiations for the political groups. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I shall vote on the draft law amending the Law on Plant Reproduction and Plant Variety Rights, the Law on Administrative Cooperation and the Law on State Fees, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 733. Please take a stand and vote. 46 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, with no abstentions. The draft law on plant propagation and plant variety rights initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the amendment of the Law on Administrative Cooperation and the State Fees Act has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U135	Third reading of the draft law amending the law on the release of genetically modified organisms and the Law on Plant Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. The representatives of the political groups can negotiate. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law on the release into the environment of genetically modified organisms initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of the Law on Plant Protection 681. Please take a stand and vote. The draft law was supported by 45 delegates, 6 against and no abstentions. The draft law amending the law on the release of genetically modified organisms and the Law on Plant Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U136	Third reading of the draft Law on Higher Education (725 SE), initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Thomas Jürgenstein on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U137	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The law of higher education is something so important that I will try to say a few words. First of all, the world of universities gives rise to awe. The oldest of Europe, the University of Bologna, has now passed the Platon Academy by its age. That time was over a few years ago. The 400th anniversary of the University of Tartu is no longer behind the mountains in Estonia. I am telling you, I think that, at least in the time I was in the Riigikogu, there was one of the most magnificent moments when the Rectors of the Estonian public institutions of higher education sat at the table in front of us today and also the President of the Academy of Sciences. That was a really great moment. The essence of universities is the principle that they must keep what is old and valuable and traditional, while at the same time they must be innovative and innovative. At least my logic says that it is inevitable that laws should be updated from time to time to support such a nature. It seems to me that the three cross-cutting topics of this bill are the flexibility of higher education, motivated faculty members and the orientation of a new type of student. Yes, the world is changing. In the world of higher education, in the last 25 years, this has meant a surge in the number of students, including foreign students, a certain variation between paid and unpaid higher education, a long time ago in the transition to the Bologna system and so on. The question of the memory game may be the magnitude of the number of students present in Estonia. I will also say the answer: there are more of them than there are people in Pärnu, it is about 46,000. True, ten years ago, there were about 30% more. The faculty dealing with these students. I recall here the rather well-known fact that the training of a high-level faculty scientist lasts at least nine years, with a post-doctoral thesis for 11 years. Such a long period of study requires stability in the future. By future, I mean, above all, a logical career ladder and job security. The aim of today's draft is to take a step forward in this respect. If I recall the debates involved in the procedure of the draft law, I would like to stress that the debates were also academic under the Higher Education Act. These concerned the limits of paid/free higher education, the management structures of universities and, on the other hand, both the practical subject and the leave of employees of higher education institutions. Most people involved in the draft law on higher education unanimously confirm that today's third-reading draft makes many things clearer, more flexible and more modern in the higher education landscape. And the Social Democrats agree. But we also know that, after the elections, this hall will have a great task: to ensure good funding for a well-lawed higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U138	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I vote on the draft Law on Higher Education, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 725. Please take a stand and vote. 53 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, with no abstentions. The draft law on higher education initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law. At this point, I saw that the men in the remote area did not make it back to the hall in that minute. I'll give you a longer call from now on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U139	Third reading of the draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Arts initiated by the Government of the Republic. Would the political groups like to negotiate? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I vote on the draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Arts initiated by the Government of the Republic 730. Please take a stand and vote. The draft law was supported by 52 ambassadors, no one opposed, no abstentions. The draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Arts, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U140	Third reading of the draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre initiated by the Government of the Republic. The political groups can negotiate. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I vote on the draft Act 728 of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 54 delegates voted in favour of the draft law, no one opposed, with no abstentions. The draft Act of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U141	Third reading of the draft Estonian University of Life Sciences Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Would the political groups like to negotiate? That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I vote on the draft Act of the Estonian University of Life Sciences, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 727. Please take a stand and vote. There were 51 delegates in favour of the draft law, no one voted against, with no abstentions. The draft law of the Estonian University of Life Sciences has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U142	Third reading of the draft Tallinn University Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The political groups do not want to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is also to put this draft to a final vote. I vote on the draft Tallinn University Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 726. Please take a stand and vote. The draft was in favour of 52 delegates, no one opposed, with one abstention. The draft Tallinn University Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U143	Third reading of the draft law on the protection of heritage initiated by the Government of the Republic 684. Would the political groups like to negotiate? Please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U144	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, We're going at a nice pace, and I'm sorry to keep this pace a little bit. We have reached the final stage of processing the draft law on heritage conservation. I honestly admit that a few months ago, I was one of those who feared that the procedure of this law would rather remain a new one. I am very pleased that I was wrong and went differently and that we are only a step away from adopting this law. How long is a rooster step, I don't know that very well. When you look back, you remember a very long search for balance, there were enormous suggestions for improvement. When I was trying to create an image, there was a game in front of my eyes, which I'm going to try to describe. Good roadies, maybe you've played this game, too, or seen kids play it. Six or sometimes eight players hold on to the strings running in different directions, the other ends of the strings are attached to a wooden disk with a large hook on the bottom. The task of the players is to try to spread the shapes on the playground on the end of this hook and place them in safe places. This requires cooperation between players in sync: someone has to tighten the rope, someone has to relax, someone has to move to the right, someone to the left. This is how it was to strike a balance between interest groups. It is natural that the owners of the sites had their own interests, more radical ones and more moderate ones had their own interests, local government leaders had their own interests on archaeologists, etc. Figuratively speaking, someone had to tighten the rope and give in. I am very grateful to the Committee on Culture for the fact that we have maintained a cool head and a compassionate heart and that we have managed to create a compromise or are very close to it. It seems to me that this compromise was based on a common understanding of some common principles. I'll count them, and if I'm wrong about something, my colleagues will fix it. First of all, the law on heritage conservation relates to the prosperity of society. We are just as rich as we are, and according to the state's level of prosperity, we can support the preservation and restoration of the monuments. We can't support everything. Secondly, it is a principle that a monument around or within which life takes place is, in any case, more important to society and is better preserved than a monument without life. Third, no case is identical to another, although a similar pattern may recur. Fourthly, the law of heritage will never stop. Finally, once again: everything cannot be regulated by law; a great deal of work must be done to make the image of the National Heritage Board more humane and supportive. I admit that I have a familiar minister who quietly buried the bones and a few other things when he installed the bench in the church yard, and he probably also said a prayer. He was afraid half the churchyard might be closed down. I promise I'll try to dispel his distrust of the National Heritage Board. This law is a great compromise. We support this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U145	Please, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U146	I didn't say thank you. For the last time in the remote, you have to say thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U147	Now it's said. Thank you. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U148	Hello for me, too! The theme of heritage conservation is fundamental and multi-layered. There are many aspects that we can all appreciate: the idea of cultural heritage, the interest of the owner, the role of the state and society. For years, regulation in the field was questionable, for years the parties talked about the need to rethink the subject in substance and adopt a new law on heritage protection. In the spring of last year, the original version of the draft law appeared and serious work began in the Committee on Culture, but unfortunately the Minister of Culture hastened to approve the first version of the law. The first texts seemed crude and even ill-thought out to many parties. Critical work began at Parliament's level. I admit that in many respects this draft has improved. The heart is warmed by the general principles (Article 3 of the draft). There is also a specific sentence: 'The value and preservation of cultural heritage is a shared responsibility of society. ' This is a point which must be based on all the parties involved, is essentially a principle of value, and it also provides a framework for the activities of the Agency. All limitations and mitigations shall be consistent with the general principles. It is a pleasure that during the period of the law, we were able to channel considerably larger sums of money into the sector, which are intended to support the owners of those who preserve the common cultural heritage. The National Heritage Board is still continuing as the Heritage Board. We were also able to maintain the name, which in turn is heritage. But when we critically look at whether the law will be much better to regulate the area for which it has been called into action, it turns out that there are achievements, but they could be greater. Last night, the address of the Estonian Owners' Confederation arrived in my mailbox, where they say: 'The draft law on heritage conservation submitted to the last reading is not in accordance with the Constitution, as the fundamental rights of citizens are not restricted by the principle of proportionality. Before the law enters into force, the legislator must clearly determine how the general principles of the law on heritage protection will still apply, otherwise they will remain merely a declaration. " They ask not to support the bill. There are almost 500 signatures under this letter. These are the owners who essentially hold our common value, and they do not support the draft as it stands. Similar opinion is given by the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, who also refers to a contradiction with the Constitution. People whose interests this law seems to have to work, or those who care for the preservation of our common heritage objects, are still dissatisfied. I dare say that the problem is that the original text of the draft was still rather based on the Office of the Heritage Board, namely! The interest, not the spirit of cooperation. That is why there was so much criticism in the autumn, and that is why even the revised text still bears its original rather than its greatest ambition. Heritage is a sensitive subject. I would like to see more ambition and greater cooperation in this law. We, the Fatherland, were able to make our maximum and correct the bill as much as possible. The achievements are significant, but we recognise that with this draft, and with this area, even more work should be done so that, on the last night before the third reading, there should be no petition on the part of the owners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U149	Krista Aru will speak on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U150	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Members of the Estonian Free Party Group are not satisfied with this law one hundred percent, certainly not. Above all, it is because the preservation of heritage conservation value, which is important for society as a whole, is now enshrined as a principle in the law, but the question of how it is implemented is and will remain. If we ask more here whether we have been able to make this bill proportionate to the protection of the interests of the Agency, society and the owner, this has certainly not been achieved. There are many points in this bill that require society as a whole to think a little differently and to understand that everything that our ancestors have inherited to us and which bears meaning can never be just the care of the owner, but that is what we must all stand for. However, by looking at the life around us and by looking at how important it is at the level of the law to value cultural heritage, heritage protection, nature conservation temples as they are, and to go forward with them step by step, the Free Party Group, also considering that this bill really creates opportunities for an adequate assessment of both the principle of proportionality and the justification for imposing one or the other restriction, as well as the possibilities for removing the destroyed object from protection, also taking into account the improved financing conditions, will support this bill to become a law. We believe that society must all move together in this direction. The focus of officials means that our officials, including heritage officials, need to communicate more with owners, explain more and do the work they are assigned to, with an open soul and heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U151	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 684. I shall vote on the draft law on the protection of heritage initiated by the Government of the Republic, 684. Please take a stand and vote. The draft law was supported by 43 delegates, 17 against, with no abstentions. Bill 684 of the National Heritage Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U152	Second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Belarus initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Before Monika Haukamm comes as a waitress, I will briefly remind you of the second reading of the draft law on the ratification of the foreign treaty. First there is a presentation by the representative of the commission (up to 20 minutes), then the questions are for the rapporteur (up to two oral questions) and all members of the Riigikogu can take part in the negotiations. Monika Haukanõmm, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U153	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you a quick overview of the 790 procedures in the Social Committee between the first and second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Belarus. Since it has been quite a few weeks since we first read this draft here, I very briefly recall the purpose of this draft. The purpose of the agreement is to ensure pension insurance for persons moving from one country to another. It also determines which national law applies to taxes on the remuneration of persons living in one country but working in another country or being posted to work in another country. The agreement concerns old-age persons living in Estonia and Belarus who wish to receive an old-age pension, as well as working-age persons and children who wish to receive a preferential pension or survivor's pension from another country. In addition, the agreement concerns persons of working age who live in one country and work in another (e.g. persons working in transport companies, seafarers, entrepreneurs) or are posted to another country. As a general rule, persons employed in the territory of the Contracting Party are subject to the legislation of the country in which the person actually works. But there is one exception, crew members. I would like to remind you that the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 January and that the first reading was completed in this Chamber on 30 January. The deadline for submitting amendments was 7 February 2019 and no amendments were tabled. In the Committee on Social Affairs, we discussed the draft at our two sittings on 11 and 18 February. It should be said here that, at the meeting on 11 February, the members of the Social Affairs Committee also asked two questions, to which Leili Eenlo, Head of Social Security at the Ministry of Social Affairs, answered. I asked the first question. This was because, at first reading, our colleague, Urmas Kruuse, asked me which countries such agreements had already been concluded and which countries it was still planning on with. At the time, I was unable to answer that question and asked a specialist about it. We have received the answer that social security agreements have been concluded with five countries: Belarus, Ukraine, Moldova, Canada and Australia. The other half of the question was which countries are in the process of concluding an insurance contract. There are a couple of such countries, but since these agreements are still being concluded and these data are confidential, of course we do not have any more precise information on whether they will be concluded and when. It is well known that it will take years and years for such agreements to be concluded between countries, and sometimes we will never get through these agreements. Tarmo Kruusimäe, who replaced Maire Aunaste at this meeting, wanted to know whether Estonia had such an agreement with Georgia and whether the pension rights of Estonian citizens living and working in Georgia were protected. We received the answer that Georgia has been negotiated in the past, but this process has not been completed and has been interrupted because Georgia did not want to move forward with this agreement. The reason was very simple: we have very different taxation systems, namely, if we collect pension contributions, then Georgia does not collect such taxes for retirement at all. At the end of this meeting, it was decided to put the draft on the agenda by today's 20 February (which was decided by consensus) and to propose a final vote (consensually). At the second meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, at which we discussed the subject and which took place on 18 February, we did not discuss it in substance anymore, but approved the draft second reading procedural documents, as well as by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U154	Let me remind you that up to two questions can be put to the rapporteur in the round of questions. You don't even want to do the first one. Thank you very much for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Since this is a second reading, everyone can negotiate. That's not what you want. No amendments have been tabled to bill 790. The commission's proposal, as you have heard, is a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Belarus, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, 790. Please take a stand and vote. 39 Members voted in favour of the draft and no one voted against, with no abstentions. Draft Act 790 on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Belarus initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U155	The next item will also be dealt with in the same way as the one we have just been dealing with, because this is the second reading of the draft law on the foreign treaty: the second reading of the draft law on the safe and environmentally sound recycling of Hong Kong ships initiated by the Government of the Republic, the second reading of the Act on the Accession of Hong Kong ships to the International Convention on Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling. Member of the Environment Committee, Meelis Mälberg, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The objective of the Hong Kong International Convention on Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships is to reduce the environmental impact of ship dismantling and to improve global safety conditions in relation to its activities. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 14 January 2019 and the first reading was completed in this Chamber on 31 January 2019 and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 7 February. As I said at first reading, this draft was very well prepared and may also be one of the reasons why the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and the committees did not submit any amendments to the draft. In the first and second reading of the draft proposal, the Commission has dealt with this draft once on 11 February. The substantive debate was no longer open, and the Commission made two decisions: it was decided to propose a second reading of draft 791 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 20 February 2019 and to propose a final vote on the draft. The members of the Commission voted unanimously in favour of both proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U157	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Everyone can negotiate. That's not what you want. No amendments have been tabled to bill 791. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft Act of Accession of Hong Kong to the International Convention on Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 791. Please take a stand and vote. 39 delegates supported the draft, 3 did not support it, and no one abstained. Draft Act 791 on the Accession of Hong Kong Ships to the International Convention on Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U158	The second reading of the Riigikogu's "Principles of State Reform and Good Administration" draft decision 777 submitted by the Parliament's Trouble Committee for the Development of Developments of State Reform. Before I call Helmut Hallemaa, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur, I recall how we organise the second reading of the draft decision. First there is a presentation by the representative of the commission (up to 20 minutes), then there are questions for the rapporteur (up to two oral questions) and further negotiations. All members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups may speak. This procedure shall be closed by a final vote. Please, Helmut Hallemaa, a waitress for a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U159	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, State reform and good administration we call it whatever it takes, these terms have been given to a good child several things are certainly a very important issue, also at the current stage of development of the Estonian state. The draft decision, with a beautiful number 777, was dealt with in this Chamber at first reading on 29 January. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10 a.m. on 11 February. Two amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu Tanel Talve, Aivar Kokk, Helmut Hallemaa and Andres Herkel. The second reading was prepared in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 11 February and the procedure was as follows. First of all, Amendment 1. The proposers, and finally the Commission, will expand the basis on which the decision will be taken. In addition to § 65 (1) and (16) of the Constitution, it is proposed to add the text section'§ 20 (1) of the State Budget Act' according to which the Riigikogu adopts the fundamentals of politics either on its own initiative or on a proposal from the Government of the Republic. We carried out four votes later and each had the same distribution of votes. I therefore say that the first amendment was supported by the Commission, that the proposal is to be taken into account in full, that there were 5 members of the Commission (which were Marko Pomerants, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Tiit Terik, Mikhail Korb and Helmut Hallemaa), that was quite traditional in our committee, Jüri Adams, and there were no votes against. Mr Pevkur initiated a discussion within the Commission on the concept of state reform in order to distinguish between the reform of public administration and the reform of the state (written out). This is basically right, the last one (if you write apart) may also mean that representative democracy is replaced by another form of government, even if it is a kingdom, which is sometimes a semi-joke wish. I took the floor as one of the proposals and as a member of the Commission. Actually, I like Hanno's thinking. This term is certainly broader and, therefore, the term'state renewal' can also be replaced by'state renewal', which I think is an endless process, and almost every moment it is possible to take the next step, just as in the case of administrative reform. But today, that is why state reform and good administration are mentioned in the title of the decision. For quite a few years now, we have been dealing with the reform of the state by means of this term, and there has been no problem. With the second amendment, the proposers proposed that the Commission agreed to this in full; the decision is to take full account of the replacement of the preamble section, which unravels the content of the decision. In the new wording, the Commission proposes: 'The reform of the state will shape a robust and effective organisation of state governance tailored to society's needs, aimed at supporting overall prosperity and economic growth. The work of the general government will be restructured in such a way that the problems will be solved quickly and unnecessary activities and unnecessary administrative burdens will be abandoned. The fundamentals of state reform and good administration are implemented simultaneously and in all areas. ' As has been said, it was fully supported by the Commission. We have finally made procedural decisions: to put the draft on the agenda for a second reading today and to propose a final vote on the draft. All the votes had the same results as I said once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U160	There will be a round of questions before the final vote. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U161	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm reading this bill and, frankly, I don't know what it's for. Some kind of human-centredness just because most of our laws are human-centred, not animal-centred. The fundamental principles of the Constitution are not amended .. well, most of the time, we are based on the Constitution. Such a general haiku. Tell me honestly what it takes to do something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U162	Actually, you put it pretty interestingly. I don't know what it's for. In this case, we are adopting a document, and in this document there are not only those points you have highlighted, but seven points in total, plus the eighth, which is the point of implementation. Yes, I certainly did not say that, which could have been said at first, it is always possible that there is more in-depth document. Here, in my opinion, it must be distinguished that, in the case of state reform, very many things are done by executive power. The Government of the Republic has a state reform plan that was adopted over two years ago, with completely specific metrics. I have said here once before, perhaps at the time of the first reading of this draft decision, that the real question is whether these meters are sufficiently ambitious. This can be done in the following document. But the fundamentals of politics, not only this document, is often the case with other documents, but they are broader and more general. This is, of course, a fundamental or political agreement that could be reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U163	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U164	Thank you. Did you discuss in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs whether any of the principles or fundamentals described here are more important than the other? There may be situations where some public institutions need to be reformed, some need to be shut down, some need to be merged, which would be in line with the principles of adaptability, less administrative burden and efficient public administration, but may not be human-centred when we think about the person who works in this institution. How does this paper help us in such difficult situations? Is there any point more priority than the other?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U165	Thank you, a good colleague of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs once again. In fact, the revised text of the same preamble says that the fundamentals of state reform and good administration are being implemented simultaneously in all areas. There is certainly no priority line here. If you wanted to hear my personal opinion, I would certainly have brought out a few things, especially regionalism and regional policy, which are missing in the Estonian country and which need to be implemented significantly more so that life is possible throughout Estonia. The debate, which is more important or not important, has not been, but the last sentence of the preamble actually emphasises that they are applied simultaneously and in all areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U166	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U167	Good manager! Good waitress! I'll keep going. This thing is so natural, but now it's a document like this. One of the subtitles could be 'Unaccompanied and administrative burden-enhancing' or 'Determining legal clarity' or 'Insensitive', etc. I'm still asking who needs it when you say that the sky is blue and life needs to get better, and you're working on a document that's obvious, and now you're coming here on the last working day with a job like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U168	Thank you. I am the rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in this case. Indeed, the National Reform Commission has developed this decision. But you have pointed out the options that I certainly would not sign, neither to the unadaptable Estonia nor to the lawless Estonia. So, actually, there are choices. In this case, at least the right path has been chosen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U169	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U170	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Dear waitress, When we read this bill, we will see that it is a very beautiful story, and there is really nothing to argue with, such a beautiful bubble. If we compare to today's situation, there is no doubt that most things here are not the same as reality. I mean, you can make it your goal, why not, very beautiful, but if it is not executed today, it will not be executed tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, so what then? What we're doing here is just gonna be one of those blank papers, emptying out the air. Who will be responsible if this decision is not enforced? Whose direct responsibility is it to do so? What's the point of this paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U171	Thank you for your question. In fact, it is the task of all these bodies, whether it is the future Riigikogu or the Riigikogu today, who will take this decision, be it local councils or local executive authorities, or governments. You were very right to say that maybe there are some kind of dreams here. The basic principles of policy are that of setting goals, and therefore there is no point in doing anything afterwards. I think that there are quite a number of things here, for example, at the point in Estonia capable of adapting, which I myself mentioned as my preference, i.e. regional policy and development everywhere in Estonia, as well as a lower administrative burden, which we are moving towards in some sense. It seems to me that the driving licence process is quite advanced in this respect and works, and on the other hand, the part of the identity documents certainly has not worked so well. I dare say that, in my own time, when I was also involved in issuing documents, my suitability for this post would probably have been considered because of this lack of organisation. But that's the way it's been going. So, in fact, I find this theme to be far-reaching. Surely it is up to all of us to start filling out this document. It shall also be accompanied by an operative part. In fact, there is an operational programme for government reform, it is also being completed, there are completely specific metrics. I will continue to say that the next operational programme could be more ambitious.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U172	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U173	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I understand that you are actually the messenger of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, this excellent document has been developed somewhere else. I am reading this document, which really says that attention and resources are primarily directed towards providing services to people and solving problems in their lives, and I am thinking for myself, which could be an alternative. In the same way, I read here, as a person who has made public service reform, that an all-Estonian approach is being adopted to recruit competent people into the public sector. Why don't you tell me, for history, who were the people who made this excellent and thorough document and how long they worked on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U174	This document was drafted by the State Reform Problem Committee (it is called a little longer), which was originally led by Ivari Padar, and today it is led by Tanel Talve. That's where I belong. The vice-chairman of this committee is Arto Aas, and the other members of the committee I do not remember at the moment, but basically, their names can be viewed on our website. So there are representatives of all the political groups in that committee. The committee has advisers, the committee worked quite closely with several think tanks, also with the Riigikogu Development Centre and other bodies. So actually, quite a few people gave their input for this document. At some point, the document was considerably longer. But surely, you mentioned the messenger and the messenger can be killed. I'm a messenger here before you now, but I'm hoping to survive just like this document.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U175	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U176	Thank you. This composition of the Riigikogu will definitely go down in history as the initiator of administrative reform. Today we were in the process of merging two public institutions and setting up a new institution. Unfortunately, I am looking at you, too, the rapporteur for this draft, not taking part in the vote on this point. I ask in this way: would you, as a Member of Parliament, have given you the strength and strength of the same basic document to take real steps towards reforming the country and actually combining functions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U177	Thank you, Andres! It actually goes out of the discussion on this document, but I will answer why I didn't do what you asked about. I've been working in environmental protection and nature conservation for quite a long time. Just before these elections, I've counted 13 years. I've been a divorcer at one county level in these two areas. That is why, in principle, I did not consider it right to take part in the vote on this matter. I really have an opinion on this, and I think that this addition could have been done in another structure. There are other bodies in environmental protection. As far as additions and subtractions are concerned, I believe that duplication must be reduced. I do not know whether we can always reduce the number of officials, but at least people must be clear and understandable where documents are presented and how they move. In fact, this principle of presenting one document is not working fully today. There are great opportunities in this matter. Would this document have changed this addition? I don't think so. As far as administrative reform is concerned, I think that we have made an administrative-territorial reform, which, even in very many places, is not satisfied in terms of borders, but we did so in a semi-volunteering way. There is much more to go on in the real content of the administrative reform. We have done the first thing, the local governments' revenue base will recover next year, but resources, decision-making and strength are much more needed for local governments. On the side of the municipalities, I think it is important to give serious thought to the fact that, instead of the devolved rural governments, local governments will work better and more strongly in the development of the counties.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U178	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U179	Thank you. Good waitress! From summer 2016 until the end of the year, when a new coalition was formed, the country reform steering group came together, which was not a special committee or anything like that, but the members of the Constitutional Committee from all political parties came together and we completed a very comprehensive document by the end of the year. Now, if I'm reading this paper, I'm gonna make sure that almost none of this has gotten here. Can you comment on why, in essence, 90% of our completed framework document was completely discarded and a relatively superficial and round text was made?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U180	Thank you. As far as the special committee or the non-special committee is concerned, we have also mentioned in this Chamber that, in the future, we could consider taking the lead from Finland, in which Parliament is working as a permanent committee for the future committee and the representatives of all our fellow parliamentary groups alongside another committee. This could be one of the issues of the future. As for the material, the material was on the table, but it wasn't thrown away. As I said, before this document, the Committee on State Reform had a much broader document, which has now become a document of the fundamentals of politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U181	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, There are a lot of reasonable thoughts here. The second amendment to the question and the amendment of the text of the preamble gave rise to my question. It is said that, with an important focus, problems will be solved quickly, unnecessary activities and excessive administrative burdens will be abandoned. Who will assess when the administrative burden becomes excessive?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U183	Thank you. This was also the subject of quite a debate in the Commission. I think it was also in the Chamber when we discussed this important national issue, both last summer and perhaps early December. It was even a question of who set the gauges. I think they could be, they actually exist in the executive, and apparently the executive can accurately evaluate their activities. Our actions are and should be more strategic. The Riigikogu should also be the centre of strategic thought and strategic development in the course of discussions. So this is where we have to work with the government. Parliament can certainly lay down rules. In this case, the fundamentals of politics can be carried out with Parliament or with Parliament's direction. The reportable Parliament shall have executive power.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U184	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Tanel Winter!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U185	Ladies and gentlemen, I am the perhaps a bit of a strange person who continues to believe in cross-party cooperation in this Parliament. The work of the Committee on State Reform (I had the honour of leading this committee for a few years) also showed that this is quite possible. The draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Basic principles of state reform and good administration', which has come together as a result of the work of this committee and the work of the working group before the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is now before you. There were questions in this Chamber about the meaning and implementation of this document. I just want to point out briefly that this is a document on the development of the fundamentals of politics within the meaning of the State Budget Act. Whoever is familiar with the structure and principles of our country knows that this means that the Government of the Republic must take these fundamentals into account when planning its activities, including, for example, the adoption of sectoral development plans. So it gives this document quite a force. One more thing I want to remind you of is that it remains the task and task of the executive power to carry out the action plan for state reform and to carry out it further. So this work in this Chamber isn't over with today. But, ladies and gentlemen, the number of this bill, as you have noticed, is 777. In many cultures, this combination of numbers means the end of something positive. So, good Riigikogu XIII, you have the opportunity to place a very symbolic and nice point on our work, which we have been doing for four years. I therefore ask for this draft to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U186	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U187	Ladies and gentlemen, You probably remember that a little more than two years ago, when the government changed, they promised that everything would change, everything would be different. Special committees were carried out and the work started. Today we have come to the fact that we have one page of a relatively laconic text, which is difficult to argue against, because there is nothing very specific about it, there are only beautiful thoughts. Just as it has been at national and government level: in the first year, there was another attempt to do, but now the construction of the country is on a break for over a year, and everyone is only engaged in an election campaign. So if you briefly sum up what happened here in Toompea and in the government, you could say that the mountain gave birth to a mouse. But since this mouse is so cute and innocent, we can, of course, support this document. Let's see if this mouse becomes a living animal and some little more powerful character in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U188	There are no further requests to speak. Two amendments have been tabled for draft 777. The first amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Tanel Talve, Helmut Hallemaa, Andres Herkel and Aivar Kokk, the decision of the leading committee is to take full account. The second amendment has been tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Tanel Talve, Helmut Hallemaa, Andres Herkel and Aivar Kokk, the decision of the leading committee is the same: take full account. We have examined the amendments to the draft. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on draft 777 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Principles of State Reform and Good Administration' proposed by the Parliament's Problem Committee for the development of developments in state reform. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 43), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 1 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions. Draft 777 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Principles of State Reform and Good Administration' submitted by the Parliament's Trouble Committee for the Development of Developments of State Reform has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U189	Ladies and gentlemen, today's session will be concluded by the Minister for Justice's political statement on constitutional analysis. We'll deal with it as follows. First the text of the application is submitted (up to 20 minutes), then there are questions, each member of the Riigikogu can ask the minister an oral question, then there are negotiations between the representatives of the political groups. The Justice Minister's chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U190	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! A respectable representative of the people! The purpose of my statement today is simple: to hand over to Parliament a report on the activities of the whole body of constitutional experts. I will briefly present the content of this report. In 2016, I set up a panel of constitutional experts at the Ministry of Justice to strengthen the Constitution and Constitutional culture. The starting point was to find out the issues that needed to be amended and improved in the Constitution, based on the principle that the objectives and fundamental principles of Estonian statehood are not changed. The work of the panel of experts looked like the members first of all expressed their general vision, a vision of whether or not they should consider supplementing the constitution. These views of the members of the panel of experts are set out in this report. The members of the Panel of Experts then put forward their specific proposals on the basis of the general assessments that have developed, which should be addressed by this body of experts. On the basis of the proposals submitted, the number of experts was then divided into seven major areas: the European Union and sovereignty, national defence and NATO, state order law, courts, local government, the implementation of democracy, and fundamental rights and freedoms. A rapporteur was appointed for each area, whose task was to present his views together with possible concrete proposals. The rapporteurs prepared their presentations. These reports are presented here in the work report. On the surface of the presentations, there was a colloquium debate in which other members of the panel of experts made their criticisms, either agreeing with different ideas or responding to them. The conclusions of these discussions are also set out in this report. The rapporteurs then drew up their final proposals. The panel of experts agreed that these proposals would reflect not the views of the whole group of experts, but the individual rapporteur's own views on how further improvement of the Constitution could be considered in this area in the future. On the basis of the proposals made by the rapporteurs of the panel of experts, the Ministry of Justice, in turn, produced a catalogue containing possible amendments to the Constitution. I would like to stress that this catalogue of proposals is not a so-called concrete proposal to initiate the amendment of the Constitution on all these issues, but is a methodical starting or kick-start platform in order to give a far-reaching view of the problems and developments that Estonia's statehood is facing in the future in the constitutional sense. I would point out that 20 years ago there was a similar Commission, which was the legal expert panel on the Constitution chaired by Paul Varul, then Minister of Justice, which produced the report. There was only one concrete proposal from this debate, which was later realised, but it was of enormous weight. The debate and analysis at the time gave rise, in terms of constitutional order, to Estonia becoming a member of the European Union through the amendment to the Constitution. In general, I can say that the following fundamental views of the rapporteurs could be highlighted. Firstly, as I said earlier, this was also the starting point of this work or the starting point of the Constitution, the fundamental principles of the Constitution must remain unchanged. Secondly, it is important to expand Estonian democracy in the future through new possibilities of state law. Thirdly, in view of the future, Estonia's constitutional order requires new fundamental rights and more effective protection of fundamental rights. Fourthly, a separate topic: the part of the organisation of national defence should be more effective in the Constitution. Marking the concrete possible proposals for constitutional improvement that the Ministry of Justice has chosen on the basis of these reports, I stress the report prepared by the former judge of the European Court of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court, Uno Lõhmus, concerning the development of the catalogue of fundamental rights in our constitution. Among other things, proposals were introduced to define the right to good administration in the Constitution, the rights of the child as a separate fundamental right and the right to the protection of personal data as a fundamental right of a modern person, and the proposal to pool privacy rights as a separate fundamental right, and the proposal to do the same with a general fundamental right to guarantee the right to fair justice, as well as to lay down the right to integrity as a general principle. The second round of topics that emerged involved the implementation of democracy, the development of democracy. The author was a former Chancellor of Justice attorney-at-law, Mr. Allar Jõks. In this area, there are, among other things, proposals to strengthen the role of Parliament and precisely the rights of the minority and opposition in Parliament. In particular, there is a proposal that a third of Members of Parliament may have the right, therefore, not the majority, but the minority, to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, the minority of the parliament may have the right to refer the draft law to the Supreme Court for constitutional review, and the principle of banning the so-called decoy ducks at constitutional level is also here. But here, too, this is an important matter, given the importance of the important institution in the implementation of democracy being the party, that the Constitution, the Catalogue of Fundamental Rights, should provide for a minimal requirement for the party's internal democracy, the organisation and management of political parties must comply with the generally accepted principles of democracy, but there should also be a requirement for the public to finance political parties, i.e. political parties should publicly give an overview of their assets, incomes and the use of money. In addition, it is a very important institute proposed by the former Chancellor of Justice, Mr Allar Jõks: a safeguard clause for democracy, or the fundamental principles of our constitution. As we know, it is possible to amend the Constitution by the procedure provided for in the Constitution, but it should be provided for, and this is not a unique proposal, in many countries of the world, and in European countries too, this is a ban on considering certain issues as an amendment to the Constitution at all and, in fact, a safeguard clause on democracy and fundamental constitutional principles. Any amendment to the Constitution initiated must not run counter to the fundamental principles of the Constitution. This means that the proposal, also as a formal legal construction, of the Republic of Estonia, could not actually be constitutional, because it cannot change or end the existence of our state or the fundamental principles of the Constitution. A separate set of topics related to the issue of national defence. Its carrier was Märt Rask, former President of the Supreme Court. If we try to sum up these proposals briefly, it can be said that their intention was to make the exercise of independent defence capacity, as well as collective protection, more effective and flexible in the Constitution. This will be achieved through various steps, inter alia, the conceptual unification of extraordinary and martial law, they would not be separate legal, fundamental regimes, but would be one of the state's state of defence. Secondly, provision should be made for national defence management in a parliamentary state to be organised through the Government of the Republic, the institution of the President of the Republic should be released from the responsibility of national defence management, and it should be defined that Estonian defence is based on the will of the people and on collective defence in cooperation with other democratic states and international organisations. The realisation of collective protection should also be furnished at constitutional level. An important emphasis is that a definition of own-initiative resistance should also be included in the Constitution, so that there should be a clear legal platform at the level of the law requiring the establishment of the bases and procedures for own-initiative resistance. It is important to stress that, on the subject of the implementation of democracy, former Chancellor of Justice, Allar Jõks proposed the introduction of the Institute of People's Initiative and People's Survey in addition to the Institute of Referendum, which is currently enshrined in the Constitution. The carrier of the court chapter was Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court, who had now resigned. Here came a very interesting and serious issue, where the body of experts broke very clearly. We have a mechanical three-step justice system in place today. This is very luxurious and, in many cases, reaching the truth becomes very long. We analysed the practices of Nordic and Western European countries. In many cases, when more complex matters are dealt with, work begins at the district court, there must be one appeal in simple matters, but there are no two further levels of dispute. The question arose as to whether the current wording of the Constitution makes it possible to change this order, this mechanical three-step structure. The panel of experts divided its opinions in half. The parties considered that allowing, the parties considered that the Constitution should be amended. While the opinions were so outgoing in such a representative body, the rapporteur's proposal was this mechanical three-step requirement to be removed from the constitution. As regards judicial administration, the former Head of the Supreme Court, Rait Marust, proposed to appoint a constitutional court administration council, which would then organise judicial administration in the future in order to guarantee the independence of the courts. An important set of topics concerned the European Union and sovereignty. Its carrier was Judge Madis Ernits. The central principles were such that, first of all, we would not be part of any European Union, but we would be a precondition for membership of the European Union and for the exercise of membership rights, that the European Union should guarantee the protection of fundamental rights at least equivalent to the fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution, that we must protect the fundamental rights of our people, that must be clearly defined. Secondly, the principle is that the Treaties on which the European Union is founded, the legislation given by the institutions of the European Union, apply in national law, taking into account the fundamental principles of the Constitution. This is an important emphasis. The important principle is that, in reality, all countries will give up their sovereignty through various international agreements, and joint action will be agreed. Given the principle that we have a safeguard clause on the change of national borders, which requires a two-thirds majority in Parliament, qualified, heightened majority, Mr Ernits' proposal was also foreseen for international agreements when it comes to transferring the country's decision-making powers to an international organisation, so that it cannot take place not on the basis of a simple majority in Parliament, as it is today when an international agreement is approved, but it would also require a two-thirds majority in membership. This must be achieved in order to jointly delegate specific competences to some international organisations. This is an overview of the activities of this body of experts. Once again, I stress that this reflects the views of the rapporteurs, and from the point of view of the rapporteurs, the Ministry of Justice has made a choice from those issues that may need further discussion in the future. Who, other than the legislator, is competent to initiate a constitutional amendment either by referendum or by themselves in different ways. It is now appropriate for me to hand over this report to the outgoing Parliament. But the state won't stop. The new Parliament, which takes office, can consider these proposals either on a case-by-case basis or as a whole if it is necessary to resolve any practical problems facing Estonian statehood. Once again, I would like to express my gratitude to all the people involved in this activity. This package contains a proposal concerning the procedure for electing the President, but I have also forwarded this proposal to Parliament in the past. In short, it provided for a waiver of the election of the President in Parliament, a one-off term of office for the President, while at the moment he can be re-elected twice and the term of office extended accordingly. Thank you to the esteemed representative of the people. When I conclude this speech, I will hand over to the President a bound package of reports. We have some more copies, and we will certainly supply interested Members with them, including interested Members. This document is available on the Internet, but it can also be obtained on paper if there is interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U191	There are questions for the Minister. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U192	Good manager! Good minister! First of all, I'd appreciate it if you'd give me that thing on paper so you can read. But you've said many times that you have to read the Constitution. Although there is a lot to ask, my question is how to understand the text of the Constitution correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U193	When we talk about interpreting standards, there are different interpretation methods. The fact that one norm may be interpreted differently over time or that different lawyers or non - lawyers attribute different meanings to the norm is not in itself a sign of disorder. On the contrary, linguistic interpretation is a very important basis for interpretation, but there is also a historical interpretation that what the norm sought is a purposeful interpretation. The Constitution may be interpreted differently, but our problem in today's legal order is certainly that there is a text of the Constitution that is written and is what has been attributed to the Constitution by interpretations, and I believe that a certain critical centre of gravity has already arisen, that interpretation has gone too far. This is legitimate, but let me give you an example: when we say, for example, that Eesti Pank has the exclusive right to issue money, this is not the case in practice. There are, in fact, further questions, in packs. As far as decision-making is concerned, for example, the Commission on European Union Affairs is a very important decision-maker. In essence, he is in very many cases in the rights of Parliament's plenary, he gives mandates, but in the Constitution, there is no such procedure. There is certainly also a proposal to consider it, in the future, to complement it so that when reading the Constitution, it can still understand how this country works. This is certainly a guarantee that any interpretation will not become too arbitrary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U194	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your introductory speech, you mentioned that one of the objectives set out by the Committee of Experts was to strengthen the constitutional culture. Do you think that this objective was achieved by this work?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U196	It was not completed in one report. True, for a few years, this debate was held. But this process, I think, is permanent. Speaking of strengthening the constitutional culture, I very much hope that this report and other initiatives will also be dealt with by the foundation of state law set up at the Academy of Sciences. You see, in other areas, also in the areas of law, contract law or copyright, which are universal subjects, we can rely on external expertise, but in matters of constitutional law (which is our sovereignty, which is our view of international relations, which is our view of fundamental rights, which we define as a country at all), we must have our own national know-how. It cannot be accepted as imports that you see, in Greece, either in Russia or in the United States. A constitutional approach to possible developments as the European Union develops, this critical know-how must be a national lawyer, but not just a lawyer. This is the subject of a legitimate debate for the more excited or interesting part of society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U197	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U198	Thank you. I very much liked the proposal to sign in so that the fundamental principles of the Constitution could not be changed. One of them is national statehood and sovereignty, but there are many. But the next thing I know, there's a little question. It is remembered that when Estonia joined the ESM, the Supreme Court acknowledged that the mandate of giving up sovereignty, which had once been obtained from the people, would have run out, and in the future the Supreme Court would have to hold a referendum in these cases. Your proposals to us said that the delegation of sovereignty and competences with external agreements would require a two-thirds majority. Basically, this road can go very far. So where does the border come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U199	Thank you. Today's limit is a simple majority. If 100 Members are dealing with any other matter and the President of the sitting is chairing a sitting alone in the Chamber, he may take the decision and delegate sovereignty alone. This is today's constitutional order. It is undoubtedly a theoretical construction, hardly realising in practice, particularly on an important sensitive issue. Certainly, we can talk about our spatial sovereignty, our borders, but there is also functional sovereignty, which I brought in and which concerns competence. This proposal, which is in this report, is that, in the same way, functional sovereignty must be protected by the requirement of an additional enhanced mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U200	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U201	Mr. Minister! My question is about specific projects for the drafting of the Constitution in a different way. At first, I understood that your general plan was to develop something of this nature, submit to the government in power, obtain the approval of the government and then pass it on to the Riigikogu. I understand for some reason it didn't work out well. I know of one case when a new version of the President's Election Section came in, but I guess it didn't reach the government, you passed it on on on your own initiative, and it was somewhere in the drawer of Mr Nestor and the other members of the board. As far as I know, this has not been passed on to the Riigikogu. Were there any other specific things that went to the government, somebody prepared them, and the government rejected them, or didn't take them into discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U202	The answer is no. In fact, the government itself does not have the power to initiate a constitutional amendment. On this matter of electing the President, I am sorry that Parliament did not change this in any way, but it is still a controversial issue, and I guess he got caught up again in whether or not it was a direct election and all these other things. I submitted my proposals to the President of the Riigikogu, but there was also a parliamentary working group. I hope there were members of all the envoys. In the past, we tried to find a common ground in the coalition, and at least all the groups in the rhetorical coalition agreed to change the constitution in the way I proposed. Then he went, I understand that, to all the groups of ambassadors, because it makes sense to seek consensus (the coalition is not enough to change the constitution), but he got stuck there. It was not even possible to clarify whether or not to increase the number of voters. With the current system, I think we have a risk of errors in essence, given the risk of administrative reform, or of running into a dead end, the proportion of Parliament's electoral staff is rather fifty-fifty or it is half, right? Probably political temptations to shape these sins will grow in reality.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U203	George Island.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You mentioned that this committee worked for two years. Who were its members? Two you mentioned. I'm sure everyone was a respectable member, but it would be interesting to know who.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U205	These members were as follows: Member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, father of the current Constitution of Estonia Jüri Adams (this was not only him, of course, but probably at least has copyrights), President of the Supreme Court Priit Pikamäe, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, then State Secretary, current judge Heiki Loot, Judge of the Circuit Court of Tartu Madis Ernits, Professor Uno Lõhmus, Associate Professor of International Law of the University of Tartu René Värk, Attorney General Allar Jõks, Attorney General Jüri Raidla, former head of the Supreme Court Rait Mariste, former head of the Supreme Court Märt Rask, was also a member of the Office of the Riigikogu Aaro Mõtus and also a former legal adviser to the President of the Republic. I would like to emphasise immediately that it would not sound as if these proposals were all collective creation and that everyone would sign them, that, to say the least, this certainly is not the case, in fact, the views on whether or not to amend the Constitution were very contradictory. Understandably, there was a very different tonality. Surprise may have been that the older, more experienced members of life were much more radical than the younger ones. Perhaps the younger ones had greater reverence for Jüri Adams' work. These proposals were concrete proposals from the rapporteurs, and then, in turn, they were selected by the Ministry of Justice. But to understand how this debate went in the first place, there is such a thick block. I believe that this proposal was based on the logic of strengthening the constitutional culture, because it will then be possible to understand what the problems are from these discussions and differences. This is the competence of the people we have here in Estonia. There are certainly many people who are wise and interested in constitutional law, but this is, like in the case of the Republic of Estonia in 100 years, a small midterm finish that what opportunities, risks and developments could expect our statehood in the sense of state law and how we could try to design all this together for better in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U206	Minister, thank you very much and not just for the procedure and negotiations on today's item. It is now possible for the representatives of the political groups to negotiate if they wish. Please, Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U207	Mr President of the sitting! Of course, I would like to express my thanks to the Free Party Group, which has given me an unusual privilege to speak here. Yes, I was a member of this assembly of constitutional experts. I must therefore make some improvements and clarifications here. I will begin by thanking the Minister very much for his presentation. His report was quite factual. I am very pleased that it will be written as such in the Riigikogu verbatim and that every person will receive some basic facts about the work of this committee. You see, about two weeks ago, this was the case when the Minister and his assistants held a press conference at the Ministry of Justice. I wasn't there that day, and I guess no other member could have been there, I don't know exactly who those journalists were there, but the various messages that appeared the next day about this press conference made the opposite impression of what the Minister just said on this platform. It was quite tragic for me personally. My school brother, writer and great Estonian patriot, Olev Remsu, had read these news stories, made his own conclusions of them, and then published an article in the Estonian Päevaleht that it was great that after all, it had been agreed what constitutional changes were needed, and he was sure that they would come soon. Of course, all of this was not true. We know what the term 'jokk' is, i.e. everything is legally correct, but there is also a Joki communication analogy when listeners understand differently than they understood the talker. Here's the question of who is responsible for the false conclusion. But the false conclusions were here. To understand what happened, a few words from behind. 20 years ago, a group of legal analyses of the Constitution worked for two years and this work produced twice the size of a package of papers in which the Constitution had been analysed. The main conclusion was that the 1992 Constitution is still in place, that he can continue to live completely calmly, which has also been proven for the next 20 years. Interestingly, at the end of this work, a hundred different proposals were received from the Members of the Commission, which could be different in the Constitution. In the next 20 years, no one has tried to implement any of these 100 proposals. Although four or five changes have been made in the Constitution during these years, one of them was also made at the beginning of Riigikogu XIII's composition, none of them were among those 100. The problem is that any proposal, which is the first major misunderstanding in this so-called report, is that it is a report, if, unlike 20 years ago, it is not a report, but a mechanical set written in the working meetings of this committee, there is no generalisation or any common opinion, is a personal proposal by a certain Member of the Commission. They weren't discussed, they weren't assembled. Whether the Minister of Justice and his officials liked more or less, whether they make their priority list, does not have any connection with the content of the Commission's work. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U208	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U209	It is important to know that the views of the Members of the Commission on the proposals differed greatly. One attitude was that represented, rather typically, by our current Chancellor of Justice, that in the situation where we are now, it is best not to try to change anything in the Constitution, because if something is changed, things are likely to get worse. Some people share about the same opinion that I have, that the Constitution should be changed to those places where there is some sort of screaming trouble or where the shoe squeezes, and they should be changed step by step and one by one. For example, I proposed a failed place in the chapter of the Constitutional Government, which contains the sentence 'The units of local government are municipalities and cities'. This is quite ridiculous, especially after the administrative reform, and it could be abolished or replaced by something. Then there is a third group of people who have proposed tens of amendments, but not on the basis that in life a shoe is squeezing, but on the basis of their own opinion on how a place could be formulated better or what could still be included in the Constitution. The two former leaders of the Supreme Court, Rait Maruste and Uno Lõhmus, are more prominent than these, who, after being chairman of the Supreme Court, worked at the European Court of Human Rights. They were not in the Constitutional Assembly in their time, but they gained experience in Europe, working on conventions and other texts that they could understand, and they would be happy to see our Constitution II. a chapter transformed into some other thing. I think that Jüri Raidla should also be included, I am not quite sure how many of his proposals were here, who have made their proposals mainly through the text of the National Reform Foundation. What else can I say? I don't know how this thing's gonna go on or how good this prep is. In my opinion, the only serious scientific study was the study of Märt Rask and his associates on how all the conflicts relating to the rather old-fashioned chapter of the Constitution should be resolved in the future, because today's national defence is not what it was at the time of Päts and Laidoner. Finally, I would like to say that I did not very well communicate with ministerial officials. The last experience was that when I asked for a copy of the paper by e-mail, it wasn't given to me. But I'm glad that since I had the texts printed myself, someone else will get the rest of me. So I'm suggesting that interested people browse this raw material, find something interesting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-20_U210	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like a moment's attention. Good people here! Honourable Minister! By the end of today's working day, I would like to make a short, apolitical, but informal statement as President of the sitting. It is quite clear that the spirit of leaving is now getting worse, both in this hall and in this house. There are perfectly natural reasons for this. Certainly I have the honour of chairing the last sitting during this term of office, but it is possible that this will be the last sitting of my life. I can't tell you anything more than what I wrote you. All I want to say is that I stand 100% behind every word. Thank you very much. Perhaps we will meet again because of the work of the Riigikogu, for example, tomorrow, when the last sitting is at 10 o'clock. Thank you. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] Closure of the sitting at 5.46 p.m.
