ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our weekly briefing. First, please check your presence! There are 40 members of the Riigikogu. The following members of the government will take part in Question Time today: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Finance Martin Helme. First, we will address pre-registered issues. In addition to the additional question of the author of the main question, a member of the Riigikogu can ask another question with the quickest finger. The time limit for questioning is up to two minutes. Please stick to it! There's got to be a question in two minutes. Ministers have three minutes to respond. And if we get to the end of our registered questions, which are 13 today, before Question Time is over, there will be a round of quickest, quickest fingers, where members of the Riigikogu will be able to ask questions to the freely elected minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U2	But let's start with the question number 1, which is presented by Indrek Saar. The answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U3	Thank you! Dear George Ratas! Let me discuss culture with you today. We create a culture of behavioral culture, political culture every day in this hall. You have a long experience of parliamentary work behind you, and you probably do not need to be reminded that we are all always talking to the people about this speech chair in the Riigikogu. And people listen to it from time to time. However, the way in which people speak is not always commendable. Some time ago, a member of your office called members of the Riigikogu a brain-dead society and a member of the Riigikogu a douche. He also told Members to keep their mouths shut. If young people listen to such speeches and young people are listening to us today in the balcony, how should we adults, how should we as parents, how should teachers explain to these young people that it is not polite to use such expressions when the minister talks to the people about this chair? Please state your opinion and give us advice on how parents should explain all of this to their children and on this basis shape the values of young people. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! First of all, let me express my heartfelt condolences to the loved ones, friends and all acquaintances of the family who lost their lives in the fire accident in Tartu tonight. This is a very tragic and painful event that is lacking in words to describe. Dear Indrek Saar! Thank you for your question. I think that we all behave greatly according to the principles of our lives, the way we train our children's room. In your question, you mentioned a young generation, the way they see it. I guess all people look at how our society behaves in public space, how it behaves in front of the cameras. And it's also important how people behave in non-public spaces. You have noted here the different speeches made by a member of the government. I wasn't in Question Time last Wednesday, but I think he immediately said he would definitely apologize for one argument. I think that's a pretty sensible approach. At the same time, I say honestly that you referred to my experience here in the Riigikogu Hall, that it has been a great honour for me to work as a member of the Riigikogu, but I do not remember in the past nine or ten years that someone would have fired a bang in this Chamber or let out any of the linguists. I don't know if this is where you can do a thing like this. Well, that's for a member of the Riigikogu to decide. But that's also a behavioral manner. I looked, yesterday I thought it was a very beautiful event, from an environmental point of view: the capital wants to buy new gas buses. People came with interest to hear what these buses were doing. I couldn't listen, it's all over! Whistled so that there wasn't enough. I read it was social democrats. I was beginning to think there was something going on in the country or town, such a whistle choir in the middle of town, but actually there was, I understand, Raimond Kaljulaiu's campaign to become the mayor of Tallinn 2021. Well, it's not very pretty that in the middle of the city, the St. John's Church, the Statue of Victory of the War of Independence, sounds like such a whistle choir. The worst thing I think is that Rainer Vakra didn't have a whistle, so he didn't whistle. Well, you can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U5	Thank you. Indrek Saar, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U6	Thank you for your answer. With this answer, you arrived somewhere else than the Chamber of the Riigikogu. As far as pucks, fireworks and other such things of amusement are concerned, I do not know that there is something directly uncultural about it. Yes, we can certainly discuss whether it makes sense to do such things, whether it makes sense to spend a resource on such things, but I think it would be a bit different from the discussion about the example of the members of the government, the example of the society of the Riigikogu when it comes to cultural behaviour. And I'd still come back to that. As you yourself have said again, you have been working here in the Riigikogu for a long time and, among other things, have probably led countless sessions of the Riigikogu and come into contact with different situations. Then give us advice on how we should behave as members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber and how the Question Time or also the Chair of the Riigikogu should behave with a minister who is a member of your team and clearly sets a bad example from this speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U7	Thank you. I am certainly not the adviser to the Riigikogu; that is the legislative power. But if you think about your experience for a second, I agree that the manager actually has a very big role to play: he must keep the atmosphere of work in this Chamber. I do remember that a lot of times it was necessary to ask that more be heard in the Riigikogu Hall, it would be a louder atmosphere. It has happened that it has come to intervene and to ask for more respect. There have been such things. I understand you're always pointing the point at one party, one minister. I cannot say, however, that if the previous composition of XIII was taken up by all the political parties that are currently in the XIV, XIII was also composed, so that there would have been more concern with one political party. This has been the case for all political parties. But yes, it's been the manager's role, at least I took it as the manager's role. What else can I say? You're saying it's a lack of culture. But it's not like we're only looking at one side. I also pointed out two behaviors: one in a public place in the Liberty Square, the other in this hall shooting these pucks. That's a part of behavior, too. I will be honest with you that I have seen with interest the statement made by the Council of the Social Democratic Party, where you try to position yourself as a constructive opposition, who does not make criticism for criticism, but draws attention to the substantive problems and indecision of the decisions to be taken. I am sincerely saying that every government needs the constructive criticism that you are planning and on which decisions are being taken. In this sense, I certainly expect constructive criticism from the opposition. So I think it's part of a good political culture that the opposition does its thing and the coalition does its thing. But, of course, in a constructive way. I have said here several times: we ourselves were in opposition for ten years, in constructive opposition, and we tried to find solutions to the various concerns of the country. But I don't remember any pucks being fired here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U8	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U9	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ratas, don't point your finger at me if you answer me. It's not really pretty when you thank the questioner, you say he's stupid. Try the weather this time. Indrek Saart you didn't save. Vice-Chairman of your party, Mayor of Tallinn, your successor has given the Kremlin channel Sputnik an interview where he protects Russian athletes who are now being punished by the doping system. He's been feeling sorry for them. Please tell me what your position is! Do you think that your party leaders or, let's say, capital leaders should give interviews to such a channel and should they justify the participants in the doping system?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U10	Thank you for this question. You have said that I should not answer you by touching on the first part of this question, but if you will allow me, I would still like to do so. It has been a great honour for me to work with you here in the Riigikogu, and in view of your long-term political experience, and I would say, in a good sense, balance, a good constructive attitude, a mild attitude and also conduct in politics, it is, in my opinion, much to learn from this. You have a lot of experience in this regard. Now, the jock thing. As far as I know, the Riigikogu is discussing that if you have sinned with doping, it should be a criminal act. I think so, I should. Perhaps even a bit of this discussion or a topic could be opened: whether this only means that the punishment is linked to the withdrawal of the prize, or whether it could also be linked to the withdrawal of the prizes. We could at least discuss it. Now, with regard to Russia and its participation in the Olympics, I think that there must be a zero tolerance here. We see that sport comes into play with dishonesty and the use of doping, unfortunately, increasingly. But if I understood his point correctly, the idea was that sport always needs great examples. This does not mean in any way that I would put this decision under attack, but it is clear that if there are no great examples, for young athletes and for the generation of young people at all, it means that they do not see athletes representing their country or their nation, who win or get other good places. That's a very painful price. In fact, this blow is passed on to young athletes. But, of course, in this sense, I strongly support zero tolerance that if there is a sin, if doping has been used, if wrong moves have been taken, then an athlete cannot step up in the international arena. That's the way it's supposed to be. This is a very concrete and clear message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U11	Thank you. I will finish working on this issue, but I will take the liberty of making a small remark. As I said in the last Question Time, communication is a two-way street. As far as culture and polite conduct are concerned, I have not noticed, and certainly our verbatim also does not reflect this, so that the Prime Minister has pointed the finger at someone in his reply and called someone stupid. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you want a respectful attitude toward yourself, please be respectful of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U12	But let's move on to question No 2, which Kaja Kallas is asking and the answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Jüri Jaanson, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U13	Thank you very much. I just heard the statement that pointing fingers in the verbatim isn't fixed. I'd like to make it clear that the verbatim doesn't seem to reflect the movements. Stenografists don't see how they behave in this hall. Or is it different? That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U14	This is not a procedural question, but I will say that the verbatim does not really show it. However, this video shows what everyone can watch. Let's go to the next question. The performer is Kaja Kallas, the answer is Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U15	Good George! Since regaining independence, Estonia has been a rule of law, that is, a state based on a code of law, where the Constitution is supreme, where rules apply equally to all and where citizens are governed not by the will and will of those who hold the power, but by the rules are the same for all. Authorities are separated in the rule of law, which also means that the executive power must be subject to the Riigikogu, the legislative power. The members of the government must report to the Riigikogu and be guided in their activities by the rules that the legislator has established. And whoever has executive power can't interfere with the actions of the courts. Looking at the actions of your ministers, it seems that they consider the rule of law to be nothing. I will give you a few examples: the Minister exceeds his authority, goes to dismiss the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board; ministers refuse to answer questions in the Riigikogu; political cow trade, and without any substantial reason, the Chancellor of the Ministry, who has declared the illegal activities of the Minister, will be released, etc. Last week your replacement here in Question Time was the Prime Minister's Home Secretary, Mart Helme, who answered my question as to whether they might have a different approach to the rule of law than I described above, explained very clearly that there is a different approach. All these examples, as well as the statements made by the Minister, indicate that a different country is being built, and that is the country in which power is held, that is also right. Does your understanding coincide with those ministers' understanding of the rule of law and, if not, what will you do to protect the rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U16	Thank you. First, I'm going to answer your question. For me, Estonia has been, is today and will certainly remain the rule of law. It is clear that the rule of law is a matter of agreement. For me, they are found in our constitution, the principles and various provisions of which I have constantly highlighted here before the honourable Riigikogu in Question Time. In particular, one functioning rule of law must have protected rights and freedoms. The protection of fundamental rights must be guaranteed by law. Legality, rights and obligations must normally be decided on the basis of the law, everyone must have the right and the opportunity to go to an independent and impartial court, legal proceedings must be fair, the state must comply with its obligations under international and national law. You gave some examples, so I'll answer them. You pointed out the case of the release of the police chief. I think it has received concrete answers. This case is over, it's gone. I'm sure all the parties have learned a lesson from this. We can still talk about it in every briefing, but it's kind of like an old record that plays one place over and over and over again. But we've moved on from this. I think everyone's learned a lesson, everything's gotten smarter. They're moving on from here. If you take the Minister for the Interior, whose responsibility lies with the PBA, I think that seeing how great the risk of conflict really was, how serious the situation was, basically it was solved not just the next day, but, let's say, the next week of work. They were able to move things forward, move on. And I can see it now from the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, I can see it from the head of the PBGB. I think it is quite a big thing that we have managed to restore the working environment and learn from it, to move forward. So I'll even say it's a good lesson. When it comes to the chancellor you mentioned, we can discuss it again, but there was no cooperation between the two top executives in the ministry. This case even included a case years ago involving a rural elder. In fact, it is clear that if the Minister brings a proposal to that effect to the government, the government will have no choice but to decide otherwise.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U17	Thank you. Specific question, Kaja Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U18	Thank you. You have an excellent ability to take an example and start to bunk around it, but you obviously didn't answer my question. If silence is consent, then I read that all of these small examples, which show that we are moving quietly towards a different country, respect for a country where those with power are also entitled to it, confirm that this is the case. These are small steps, and nothing really happens at the same time. But you agree with all of this, and your vision coincides with the vision of these ministers. But I'm actually asking you about the fact that you also brought out the protestors standing outside Stenbock's house. I mean, people have freedoms and rights. The rights and freedoms of protestors in front of the House of Stenbock are being restricted without any legal basis. But I'm asking about Lemetti. On citizens' day, you called for the name of a good citizen. And people said that there were 2576 participants, and two-thirds of them, even more, have said that the citizen who should be recognised is Illar Lemetti. You promised to join these people's recognition. Have you done so and where can this recognition be read or seen?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U19	Thank you. I don't know, once the opposition says I won't answer any specific questions, now you're upset that I'm trying to bring out and answer all the examples you've given. Still bad! Do you have to answer, I don't know, with a higher degree of generalisation? Maybe because it's better. Now, what does power mean? I think that power means primarily responsibility, a great deal of responsibility. When we talk about political power, it has been delegated to the Riigikogu through the elections here, to the Riigikogu, and the Riigikogu has given its approval to the established government and coalition. I believe that this means primarily responsibility, a great deal of responsibility for the Estonian people first, for Estonia, and certainly also for our partners in the international arena. That's what power means. Now, you referred to Citizen's Day and my call. Yeah, I know a lot of people were proposing Mr. Illar Lemetti. I hope the people who proposed it were sincere. I hope that they were sincere and that they really wanted to do so today and that they will also think about it today, not that it was a straw that quickly lit up and very quickly went out. I hope people were sincere. If you ask me how I have recognised him or where I have said something good about him, I have said in all the interviews that this particular conflict situation had to be resolved by the Prime Minister. And I solved it. This governance issue had to be resolved and it has been resolved. This does not mean in any way that I have said this in my interviews, and I am also saying today that he should not be in public office in the future. Of course it could be. If he's running somewhere, I don't see any problem with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U20	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U21	Mr. Ratas! We still expect sincerity from you. If you make such a call and receive some answers, you should not start commenting on the respondents who gave your vote, that maybe they were not sincere. Show me you asked people seriously! Now, the rule of law is closely linked to such a thing as separation of powers and accountability. The executive must report to the Riigikogu. Your reporting today has once again been about you commenting on the questioner and the question, and then perhaps you will come up with an answer. To the case of Illar Lemetti: you took hold of it, but that was not the only question that Kaja Kallas asked. You wanted to solve management problems, but letting two top executives go at once is a very high risk. And it was clear that on one side there was proven guilt, on the other side there was a person you met, whom you praised and encouraged to speak to yourself. But let's leave it. You couldn't avoid commenting on me. You couldn't avoid an answer. I actually asked if your party's vice-president and your successor-in-law acted properly as mayor when he gave an interview to the Kremlin Channel Sputnik. Don't comment on me, answer it, and answer it in substance!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U22	Thank you. You can ask your questions at Question Time, and I'll try to answer them as well or as badly as I can. The fact that the coalition's replies to the opposition as a rule do not like, well, it is not a matter of today. That's the way it's been here all along. They always say one asks one and the other answers the other. Well, first this executive power and the Riigikogu as a legislative power. In this sense, I fully agree with you that the separation of powers is very important. Only recently did I go to a Riigikogu committee before Katri Raik to lead it, where I was asked to explain. I'd love to come as soon as I could. Now, you're saying there are risks in management decisions. Of course, there are risks in every management decision. Whether this risk materialises or this risk does not materialise is indicated by time. Taking responsibility is very important when making management decisions. This responsibility has been assumed. You asked about Sputnik. I've also said this to the previous composition that I don't think it's right that government members give interviews to this channel. I don't even call it a media publication. It's not accredited in any way at government press conferences, and I don't see why it should be.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U24	Question 3. The questioner is Helmen Kütt, answered by Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, First of all, I want to pay tribute. The Social Affairs Committee was introduced to the overviews of law firms. One was ordered by the Ministry of Justice and the other was ordered by the Ministry of Finance. The AGS Baltic review presented a very balanced and very justified analysis of the draft reform of the mandatory pension pillar in terms of interference with fundamental rights. And this analysis was not what it was to be feared: that he who orders and pays will receive exactly what he wants. There were 19 possible bolting points, and these latches were either medium or small. Each bolting point was marked with either small or medium. That was a really interesting review. But I would now like to ask you why, as one of the authors of the bill, you treat those entering and leaving the pillar differently. The entrants joined the pillar, who voluntarily, who will be compulsory, and now that they start to exit, they will be able to execute their investment in the same way for up to EUR 10000, and those who have more can do it in a different way. Why do you treat these people differently? And second, who takes responsibility? I really liked it when the Prime Minister said that power means responsibility. Who takes responsibility that the value of money doesn't fall? Perhaps the person with more money would like to take it out and invest it now. If he has to wait months, who will ensure that the value of the money does not fall? And it was also very interesting to hear that the exit fee paid to these funds is indeed also being considered: in addition to the 20% to be transferred to the State, the exit fee paid to the Funds must also be paid...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U26	Thank you. Question time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U27	Thank you for your question. Of course, I'd say to myself it seemed to me that the legal analysis we ordered, we got. That's what we wanted. We asked for this to make it clear to ourselves what are the potential risks of this major reform, the risks of possible unequal treatment and possible claims for damages for the state. And these risks were assessed by the law firm, listed them and proposed different ways to mitigate them. We certainly hope that they will be taken into account during the parliamentary procedure. Now, the question was about the EUR 10,000 limit for cash withdrawals. Perhaps I should make it clear here that if taken out, an amount of up to EUR 10000 is paid out at a time. You can exit three times a year, as is currently the case with the exchange of funds. It is possible to leave the funds on the same dates and the same way. If the amount exceeds EUR 10000, all that is left over from 10000 shall be paid in two equal instalments the next three times if withdrawal is possible. I repeat: the dates that we now have in place for the exchange of funds will also be the dates for leaving the funds. Well, let's say that a person has accumulated EUR 12,000. The first 10,000 gets him at once, and the next 2,000 gets him two times: 1,000 and 1,000. But if it has, for example, a sum of 200,000, then the first EUR 10000 will be received at once and the next 95000 and 95000 during the next two payment days. So there really is a difference. Why is there a difference? Firstly, we have had in mind the concerns of the funds or the banks that, if the amounts are very large, they must be given a slightly longer time to cash out the shares. If they have to cash very quickly, the price of the unit may fall under price pressure. This solution is actually intended to protect the exorcist and also to protect those who remain in the second pension pillar. We do not want quick selling of these fund shares in this way, we do not want to put pressure on the price to fall like this. Of course, this is in some respects a conventional amount of 10000, but it has been said that it is significantly higher than the current average fund value, which is around EUR 6000. However, the median value, half of which are larger and half smaller, is EUR 4500. It is therefore considered that, broadly speaking, the average fund share that may be withdrawn is twice as high.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U28	Yes, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U29	Helmen Hunter was able to press the button. Please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a huge request that if you observe minutes of wear, do so in the same way for coalition ambassadors and opposition ambassadors. We were watching it here on Monday. One speaker who came to the remote spoke for six minutes and nine seconds instead of five minutes, and this was not by chance an opposition ambassador. But thank you for bringing it to my attention. Dear Minister, Your explanation was very thorough. However, these proposals show that, in some cases, there would be no barrage. It is proposed that both those with less than EUR 10000 and those with more than EUR 50 or 60% of the sum collected should be paid out at the same time. Are you considering these amendments? That's one. Secondly, I am primarily concerned about those people who have a very small amount of money. There has been little collection. In the meantime, there has been a recession and indeed a reform of the pension system is needed. It needs to be changed, but not demolished. Why liquidate and make compulsory collection voluntary? My question is whether the Minister of Social Affairs is at the table of the Government, discussing him here today, does not agree with him as he presents in the media. He believes that this pillar should not be made voluntary. He thinks that this puts many people at a very low pension risk. People spend this money quickly, the country gets its 20%, the funds get the exit fee, but nothing has been saved for the future. I do not really believe that a person receiving a minimum wage will have an investment opportunity if he or she is not engaged in collection before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U31	Thank you. I cannot fit into three minutes of discussions that we have had since spring to agree on the principles of pension reform and to write a bill. The draft, as it has been handed over to the Riigikogu, has been agreed by the government and has the support of the government. Of course, ministers gave their input during the discussions and, of course, the Minister for Social Affairs had a number of proposals that we considered. Part of this bill is inside and part is not. Of course, the Minister of Social Affairs kept the rate of substitution in focus today, tomorrow and ten years from now. It is very important that we did not forget this in the process. I categorically disagree with the rhetoric that the government is demolishing the pension system or eliminating the second pillar. That is absolutely not true. We will make the second pillar more flexible and voluntary. No one, including banks, investment funds, Eesti Pank or any sure expert on the current system, has predicted that the second pillar will cease to function at all in its current form. I've never heard that claim anywhere else. It's said in this hall, but I don't agree that it's gonna sound. The second pillar remains, the people who want to raise money for their pensions in the second pillar can continue to do so. They don't have to do anything and there's no demolition going on. For the poorer part or those with lower incomes, who do indeed have little money collected in the second pillar, I would say that for them the impact of the second pillar changes is the least at all. After all, I tried to explain this repeatedly here at first reading that the second pillar is clearly more useful for people who have a high level of income above the average or even above the average. For people with low incomes, this impact is very low. If I have an over-average income, I will receive a lower pension from the first pillar than this income, and a pension from the second pillar corresponding to the income. In other words, people receiving minimum wages have virtually no effect on participation or non-participation in the second pillar's funded scheme. However, in the course of the reform of the second pillar, the funds are expected to be released, one part of the 4% social tax will be released for the pension fund and we will be able to raise pensions in the near future. This concerns current pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U32	Thank you. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! You have said in several speeches that the basis for Estonia's success is a strong economy, and you have indicated that the pension funds that take money out of Estonia are not really working in the interests of our country and our people. At the same time, in the light of the optionalisation of the second pillar, pension funds have announced that as the behaviour of the people in terms of withdrawal is unpredictable and investments in Estonia are less liquid, they will not dare to make them in the future. And at least part of Coop Pank's IPO showed it, the pension funds didn't participate. My question is: doesn't your current action contradict your earlier words? Don't you worry that less money will be invested in the Estonian economy than pension funds, or that the money will actually flow more out of the country? And it's our country and people's own money.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U34	Thank you. Of course, I am concerned about the success of the Estonian economy, which is a central issue for me. If we want to raise our standard of living, that is what we are doing, by reviving the economy and increasing prosperity throughout the economy. It is good that you have introduced such an argument that pension funds themselves say that things are unpredictable. True, the question now is what kind of time frame are we looking at for five years, two years, or 50 years? I completely agree that the longer this perspective of time, the more difficult it is to make predictions or the greater the lot in these projections, the more difficult it is to make estimates. The fact that we are facing a certain, let's say, a transformation of the economic image, a transformation of certain cash flows in the entire pension system and investments in funds, when we implement the pension reform is quite clear. It's part of the plan. The fact that we are changing the banks' investment strategy is part of the plan. It's inevitable, inevitable. That's what we call capitalism. If someone thinks that we can cope in the economy without any surprises or changes or the need to adapt to changed circumstances, it is difficult for him to face reality. It's very difficult for me to see the scenario of even more money being raised in our pension funds than is still flowing abroad. Still, a very large part of all the money collected in the second pillar of our pension system is already flowing abroad and parked in sub-border index funds, where it does not produce anything for us or participate in any way in the Estonian economy in order to grow our economy. I have no doubt that if we have these reorganisations in the second pension pillar system, and a certain amount of money has left this system, I would stress once again that this has been taken into account in our plan quite clearly, it is not a mistake or a surprise, it is part of the plan, then we will find a new balance point after that. And after finding this balance, the pension products offered to people are better, more diverse and more profitable. I don't doubt that for a second.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U35	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U36	And next up, question 4. The questioner is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U37	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! Last week, we had Mart Helme before us as Prime Minister in Question Time, and then we were talking about the release of the Minister of the EKRE. I referred to what Mr Helme said on your right hand at the moment on my question. He was uglyly upset and, to put it mildly, he took a pretty aggressive attitude towards the members of the Riigikogu. I will ask you the same question, because you too are affected by Martin Helme's quote, which I am now reading here. In fact, Mr Helme has said publicly on the radio that this minister's replacement is the subject of a whole package of other agreements, one of which was the replacement of the chancellor, but there were other things in that agreement, which may not make sense to the public. What were the remaining points of the agreement that are intended to be kept hidden from the public, which are not intended to be shared with the public? What was the whole deal?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U38	Thank you for your question. Like I said, when it comes to releasing the chancellor, there was only one question for me. It was a management decision. The cooperation between the Head of the Ministry and the Chief Officer did not work. It had to be solved. I felt it needed to be resolved in a forward-looking direction. Many have asked that if the minister left, why couldn't the chancellor stay? In fact, it was still necessary to restore confidence within the ministry, but also in this whole area. And when I was discussing the matter with the new minister yesterday, he too said that one of the main issues is that a reliable job in both the Ministry of Rural Affairs and in the field as a whole must be restored. Speaking of the Minister, I've already said that I didn't see a chance to trust him on the basis of his answers. There was a question of trust, of distrust. If you ask me if there have been any other nuances in the game, the only argument for releasing the chancellor was that the Minister had brought this proposal to the government. And it was understandable that there was no cooperation. I don't suppose anyone in society is saying that there was an enormous amount of cooperation or just a lot of cooperation. It was understandable that there would be no cooperation and no cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U39	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, a specific question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U40	Thank you. I didn't really understand whether Martin Helme, who on the radio, has claimed that the whole package of other agreements, the content of which cannot be shared with the public, involved replacing the Minister, was bullshit or something. Which way is it now: will you mislead us if you answer now that there really was no other, wider agreement with a whole range of smaller parts, or will Martin Helme mislead us? One of the two will do it, unfortunately. But I'm going on with my question. In particular, in an earlier briefing we have also discussed the increased political cleansing at the Ministry of Rural Affairs, which the EKRE Minister has wished to undertake there. In this very briefing, it became clear that there has also been a plan to dismiss the Deputy Secretary-General of Food Safety, Toomas Kevvai. Since then, there have been very controversial signals. On the one hand, it is known that you have not had this proposal put on the government agenda; on the other hand, it is known that the EKRE representatives are still talking very strongly about such greater cleaning. Can you confirm that the Ministry of Rural Affairs will not undertake such cleaning and dismiss the Chancellor of Food Safety?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U41	Thank you for a good question. First of all, I can answer according to how I feel about solving this problem. I'm not gonna answer for anyone else here. It is clear that both issues arose at the same time: the question of the Minister and the question of the Chancellor. They both had to find a solution. They found it. Now, your second question is whether any new management decisions are planned at the Ministry of Rural Affairs. You're asking about the Vice Chancellors. Yes, the previous Minister for Rural Affairs had a proposal to reduce the number of deputy chancellors. When the previous Minister for Rural Affairs was no longer in office, I asked for this proposal to be removed from the draft agenda. It wasn't worth discussing then. I've been talking to the new minister. He has said that he does not initially come to the government with any decisions on the governance structure; he wants to inform himself first of all about what is happening in the field. He wants to get back to the Ministry. And it's important. Is the Minister entitled to make changes to the governance structure? Of course it is. You're asking me if there's ever gonna be a change in the management structure at the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Well, that would be a pointless promise. You can't make promises like that here. Each minister still has his own competence, his own right to decide what is happening in the Ministry, also in terms of the governance structure. I think the new Minister for Rural Affairs has chosen the right path. He has said that work peace must be restored, he wishes to deepen, and then he makes his decisions. That's the way it's supposed to be. Now, I have said this before, and I will also say, by answering your question now, that there has been a different approach to Chancellors over the last few decades. Somewhere in the late 1990's, a new government took office, and several Chancellors went on a daily basis. Well, the law was different back then. If I am not mistaken, there was also a huge politicisation of Chancellors, in fact political Chancellors were appointed. I don't think it was a good experience, it should definitely be avoided.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U42	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U43	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! You heroically claim that there was only one solution to the problem of managing the Ministry of Rural Affairs: to kick everyone out. But that's how the continuity of all management disappears with the Chancellor. In your next reply, please try not to comment on the questioner, but to answer where you saw the Chancellor's problem. If the minister had to leave, what did the chancellor do wrong? But my own question is that your government minister and at that moment the Prime Minister said these words last week: 'There are no compromises, there can be no surrender. [---] I don't care what experts or officials say. I don't give a shit! [---] There are no compromises with them, they want to destroy us. " That's what Mart Helme, acting Prime Minister, said. How do you make sense of those sentences? How do you perceive experts, officials and politicians in society, their cooperation? And don't tell me they all have to be kicked away to solve the problem of leadership. Tell me whether you're behind this sentence or behind the sentences that your government minister and your actress Mart Helme have said!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U44	Thank you. First of all, the question was what the chancellor did wrong. Cooperation with the Minister did not work. And cooperation is always bilateral, it is not one-sided. Point 1. Point 2 is that if I asked the Secretary of State to go through it, of course, it was not an incentive to be released, but it was perhaps a fragment of this story that the chancellor would come and explain at a meeting of the Government of the Republic, then, although he was not on a work mission, he did not come there. He couldn't be there. This would actually have been the place where we really would have heard his senses. He thought he was acting different. But mostly the non-cooperative exercise was nothing more. That's right. Now, you read the quote from last week. You should always ask the authors about the quotations, but you asked if I was behind those words. Well, I listened to that quote too. So much I remember saying that someone wanted to destroy someone. I have no feeling that the Estonian authorities want to destroy politicians. On the contrary, I trust them, and cooperation is good.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U45	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U46	Next Question, Number 5. The questioner is Riina Sikkut and the answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U47	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! You said nicely that power means responsibility. And so far, every minister has had his own responsibility for the area of responsibility that he deals with, the political orientations and for which he speaks. There is a change in the current government. The Minister of Finance wishes to release the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board; the Minister of Finance deals with windmills and radars of the Ministry of Defence. The Minister of the Interior will set new directions in the press when it comes to defence policy, and the Minister of Social Affairs will not pay the floor when we talk, for example, about the organisation of the pharmacy market. It is incomprehensible to me how the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Education will now organise the pharmacy market. In this connection, I ask: you have approved the draft 118 which was handed over to the Riigikogu yesterday and which concerns the organisation of the pharmacy market in the coalition presidency as Prime Minister. Based on what expertise have you rejected the Minister for Social Affairs' understanding of how the pharmacy market could be organised? The Minister of Social Affairs puts the interests of patients first, access to medicines for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U48	Thank you. I hope you don't mind if I try to answer your questions, too, which I haven't answered yet. You brought in a new nuance that the Minister of Finance is dealing with windmills. I'm sorry, but I think the whole government has to deal with this. If we think about climate goals for a moment and think about when we last set up windmills in Estonia, I don't know, I might be wrong, but I think it was seven or ten years ago. I think the whole government has to deal with this, certainly the Minister of Finance. I rather welcome the fact that the Minister of Finance is currently trying to find a way out of a dead end. This has been discussed by the government, I would say, three, four, five times in different formats. The coalition has taken this matter very seriously. On the one hand, we keep saying that oil shale will decrease if we produce electricity from it. That's right. On the one hand, account must be taken of our footprint, on the other hand, of the market situation. From a CO2 point of view, oil shale is not competitive and we need to find new resources from which to produce electricity. We say that the exit in Estonia should most likely be wind energy, and to some extent solar energy. I think that the same fourth generation of nuclear energy should be kept on the table. But wind energy is still the most tangible now, and we can see that there are actually two main issues behind which it has stuck or stopped. There are some security aspects that I think are very right to bear in mind. There must be some way to get out of it. The second obstacle is the principle that yes, I agree, but not in my backyard. This approach actually kicks out very strongly in Estonian society. Even the same wind farm in Hiiumaa, which was supposed to come about 12 kilometers to the sea, was very much opposed to it. Now, you say the Minister of Social Affairs doesn't pay the floor. Well, I don't know if your proposal is to let him go. No, I'm not in favour of that. I think the Tanel swing is doing a good job. And he has also said that you referred to Bill 118 of the Amendment of the Pharmaceutical Act that he would submit his proposals to amend it. And that's how it's supposed to be. There is first reading, there is second reading, there is third reading, and certainly Social Minister Tanel Kiik will present his proposals here. This bill is now open, here in the Riigikogu. I think that now is the time and opportunity to achieve the best result by means of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U49	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U50	I am, of course, very pleased that the whole government is taking climate targets so seriously. And I have no doubt about the competence of the Minister of Social Affairs. My question was why the positions of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Affairs have been rejected, based on which expertise. But second, I'd ask you that. I was very surprised at the draft reform of the pharmacy that was handed over yesterday with its skinfulness. A complete change from what was decided four and a half years ago. I understand: environment changes, preferences change, governments change, all kinds of decisions can be reversed. But the current draft is clearly in the interests of wholesalers and chain pharmacies. And encourage an increase in the number of pharmacies. That's not really a problem in our pharmaceutical market. The concern is that patients have to pay for the surplus profits of wholesalers and the maintenance costs of these pharmacies. This bill is not a preference of the Minister of Social Affairs; it is not in the interests of patients. It's a business thing. My question is: how much can you now buy a suitable law?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U51	Thank you. Well, I think the answer to this trick question is that there is no way in Estonia to buy a law, buy a bill or buy any sections. I read in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on the amendment of the medicine law initiated by the three political groups of the Riigikogu that it is a desire to continue the reform of pharmacies, avoiding a situation where 64% of pharmacies would be closed and there would be a problem with access to medicines and a real risk to the lives and health of patients. That's what the explanatory memorandum says. The aim is also to mitigate the risks to the state and local governments and to undermine the fundamental rights of existing pharmacy owners. It's in the explanatory memorandum. In any case, I think there would be a situation where a very large number of pharmacies would be closed from 1 April 2020. Now it's very interesting to say that there are many pharmacies. If we have the topic of post offices above, we say that there are not many post offices, they must not be closed, but pharmacies should be closed. I think that this is the case not only in rural areas, but also in urban areas, in densely populated areas. I think it is very important that, in fact, access to medicines is maintained in point 1. Point 2 is that we must, many feel, too, to guarantee free competition, which is important in the economic environment. And I think it is a good thing that we can take off here with this procedure, which has been discussed by several Riigikogu formations. This is not the first time that it has been discussed, has it been discussed by different formations? I guess there's something to be fixed here. We hope for a good procedure, a lot of proposals. As I said, the Minister of Social Affairs has also told me that he will present his proposals to the Riigikogu. The Committee on Social Affairs is in charge of this procedure, but you, of course, are the decision-making body of this House.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U52	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When it comes to the principles of governance, you have said here on several occasions that one of the principles you follow is a coalition agreement. Yesterday, farmers came to Toompea to protest and were upset with the government. First of all, they were upset about what. The government had certainly promised to pay the full amount of transitional support, and this knowledge was already the case for Mart Järvik, the former Minister of Rural Affairs, who talked about this both in the Commission and in the entire sector throughout the summer. But at one point, when the honourable Minister of Finance came to this remote control and answered the questions, he had to admit that this transitional allowance fell between two tables. It happened that he fell down on the ground, maybe the minister's inexperience or whatever. Usually when the Minister of Finance and Rural Affairs is in one political party, better decisions can be expected. But that's what happened. Yesterday, however, the public went through the press that a member of the EKRE Group, Merry Aart, said that the real problem was Jüri Ratas and Jüri Ratas in the previous government, who actually spent so much of the Estonian state budget that it was not possible to find it. I was wondering which principle we must then follow. Or was Mart Järvik only in office to survive this difficult time so that the new minister could come from a clean slate and not be held responsible for what the previous minister did? Otherwise, it is very difficult to explain why this support fell. If it had been said honestly that there was no money, it would have been a very clear and honest answer to farmers. The farmers stressed that yesterday too. So what really happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U54	Thank you. Thank you very much for this question. Maybe we should start with what really happened then. We must go back to the end of 2016. I don't remember whether it was two years or longer On zero! This has been said many times by farmers that it was a difficult time for them. And then it happened that at the end of 2016, a new coalition came. The new coalition said at the time that we would like to pay out the top-up grants as much as possible, and it would be good if we could do this in full. The years 2017, 2018 and 2019 have shown that they have been paid out in full. So this is where the launch was made. Now, you're saying by 2020 it fell somewhere between two chairs. No, it didn't fall anywhere between two chairs. The government presented to the Riigikogu a proposal to pay top-up grants of 5 million in 2020. True, this is not the maximum rate, it is 1/3. In this budgetary process, the amendment has been introduced to add another 5 million so that there will be a total of 10 million, which is not the maximum rate, but is in any case a step in the very right direction. Yesterday, when I was able to speak here before you about the politics of the European Union, I came here to the Riigikogu about half an hour earlier. Those tractors were parked already. I met farmers there and, on the contrary, they were rather positive. They were especially grateful for this last addition, for the 5 million. They wanted strength for today's government, as well as for the new Minister for Rural Affairs, that if we were negotiating MFF, agricultural subsidies, we would achieve greater support for Estonian farmers from the next budget of the European Union. That was what I thought it was like. Now, you're saying that the EKRE member said that the previous government spent all the money, that it was a problem. I have to be honest, after the end of 2016, there really were a lot of areas where money needed to be added: education, including teachers' pay, health care, local authorities, tax reform. These were all largely outstanding issues, I would say in 17 years, including the same top-up issue. You also remember that this decision was made, and I believe that you are actually delighted that this grant is now being paid, even though several years ago nothing was paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U55	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U56	And we come to question 6, asked by Madis Milling. Reply to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! Last week, we learned through the media that your government's finance minister has chosen a side in the confrontation between wind farm developers and the Ministry of Defence. Martin Helme, who met the developers several times, has also said that the DOD officials are harassing entrepreneurs. The aforementioned meetings were also puzzled by your government's Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in Taavi Asa, who said that such meetings were strange, because the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority dealing with problems with wind farms is subject to him. Taavi Asa's words: "Whatever the other minister or his advisor makes makes me shrug my shoulders. ' Jüri Luik, Minister of Defence of your government, said that the ferns could begin to comply with the law, and the Ministry of Finance has no competence to take views on the threat of windmills to Estonian national defence. My question: Mr Prime Minister, does your government lack a common position on this important issue, which concerns both Estonia's security and NATO's pre-warning system?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U58	Thank you for this question. Let's start with NATO first. On NATO's issue, the position of this government is consistent. I do not see any different developments in NATO's future here. I could also confirm this last week when we attended the NATO Summit in London with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence, which was dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the organisation. I think this was a very good summit. We see that, in fact, the messages sent out by the various members of the Alliance after the summit highlight NATO's unity, stress that NATO is working, that NATO is contributing more. In recent years more than $130 billion have come, and by the end of 2024 more $400 billion will be allowed. These figures show that NATO works, that it is viable, that deterrence works. Now, you say the Minister of Finance has chosen a side. I do not know, I have also participated in many meetings with the Minister of Finance and other members of the government. For me, this choice of half means that we have to come out of this dead end. And it's coming out! I don't know if you can't meet one party or another... I don't think it's a sin when entrepreneurs are met, the Ministry of Defence is met, the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority is met. After all, these are all the parties involved, and they must find a solution. And the solution actually needs to be found quickly. The government has decided that we are willing to invest an amount of EUR 40 million in order to provide opportunities for the creation of wind farms in larger areas on land, and these windmills could be higher. I would say the opposite: if we were not to deal with this, it would be very right to make constructive criticism of the government that we are not dealing with such an important problem. I think it's being dealt with today. Now, I understand that the undertone of your question is whether the Minister of Finance has intervened in any way in the administration of another minister. I am thinking of the area of the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. When the big news came out of the Postman, I called the head of this office the same day or the next day and asked if there was any interference. He said he wasn't. That was his answer: not interfered. There have been different visions of the outcome of this procedure, but there has been no intervention. I think that's what's gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U59	Madis Milling, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U60	Thank you very much. I thank you, Prime Minister, for speaking about Estonia's political views on NATO unity, but I did not ask for that. Using the abbreviation NATO, I indicated that the Estonian pre-warning radar system is part of NATO's pre-warning system. But my second question is: what is your position, whether the DOD officials are teasing wind farm developers and whether wind farm developers have broken the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U61	Thank you. First of all, this pre-warning system works. I've been asking the Secretary of Defense. That was point 1. Point 2 is that it's a little bit like a kindergarten: is anyone teasing someone and has anyone broken the law? With regard to this private sector, as far as I know, the procedure is currently being conducted by the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority. They must be given a break from work. I totally agree with that. They have to make their own decisions. It is clear that this issue has been up for years; it extends to the rule of the Reform Party. This has been up for years and it is clear that a solution to progress is needed. Keeping it in a dead end doesn't sound right to me. And the same 40 million, I don't know if you wanted to hear it or not, but that's one step to actually get out of this dead end.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U62	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U63	Thank you. Mr. Ratas, you are an excellent teaching material for my work shadows on the balcony. They learn to be a teacher and will certainly be able to follow us and think about how to understand whether a student really understands the subject and understands the question. It is as if you do not know, Mr Ratas, that your Minister for Finance, with the participation of his advisor, held a press conference with wind power producers, clearly taking their side that he put pressure on technical supervision. That's what eyewitnesses say, no matter what that person said in public. It's not his department. But as far as the first question is concerned, when this issue was concerned, you have come to grips with the fact that Mr Helme has to deal with wind energy, the whole government has to, because we have climate goals. Do you really think you've answered honestly now? Mr Helme has always shown contempt for climate objectives; he also said so publicly last week. When you answered like that, did you really mean that Martin Helme took the side of the wind energy businessmen to protect the climate from a good heart? In a particular case, where a particular businessman had broken the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U64	Thank you. I do not know if you question the answer of the Head of the Office for Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance in your question, the question arises as to whether you do not trust the agency. After all, the argument of the Reform Party, on the contrary, has been that the current government or the EKRE does not trust the authorities. What was I supposed to do now? This claim was in the air, the only way to control it was from a competent person. I did it, and I got the answer. Point 1. Point 2 is about who is more or less climate believer or who is not climate believer at all. One is the reality that we have said: yes, we agree with the objective of climate neutrality to be achieved by 2050, but it must also mean that the European Union is looking at those regions where much coal or oil shale is used. It must contribute more to the investments needed for this transformation. In any case, these so-called "fair fund investments" or other investments are important. That was point 1. Now, when we talk about who believes what in the climate field, one thing is clear: we see that the share of oil shale in our electricity production is decreasing. I also said this in response to Riina Sikkut: it will be reduced as a result of the footprint that is left in the environment, but it will also decrease because of the market situation, or the price of CO2. When we talk about energy security, which is important to us too, the question is whether our energy security will only be guaranteed by oil shale in the future, or whether we will be able to find any alternative inputs. Of course, one major alternative input is wind energy in Estonia. Now we are talking about this specifically as land windmills, but in fact we should also start talking more about the development of sea wind parks. In the last meeting with the other Baltic Prime Ministers, I said that we could move forward with cooperation projects in Estonia-Latvia, for example, which could be launched at some point in the Gulf of Riga. So there's no difference in view of wind energy, but in the end, I guess it's true that we're really expanding this portfolio.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U65	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U66	Next question, No 7: asks Katri Raik and answers Finance Minister Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U67	Thank you, good Chairman. Mr. Minister! I'm going from wind power to oil shale for a change. My question concerns, in particular, the establishment of an oil refinery. Many large companies have supported this idea; you represent the general meeting of Eesti Energia. Has the decision to build an oil refinery been taken? And when it's adopted, what time frame should this factory be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U68	Thank you. Yeah, it's a very important thing. The decision to establish an oil pre-refinery plant, as is its exact name, has not yet been made, but we would certainly like to decide on this at the beginning of next year. This relates to a number of different preliminary rulings. To date, we have a decision taken and Eesti Energia is working on it to build another oil making plant, which is primarily aimed at the export market and where the price of CO2 plays a significantly lower role than oil shale electricity production. In addition to Eesti Energia, oil shale oil is also produced by VKG in Estonia and is also the third smaller company in Kiviõli, Kiviter is its exact name, if I remember correctly. All of them are interested in having a cleaner oil from oil shale, so its export price is better and the market is wider. It should be taken into account that the market for oil products and products similar to oil is actually growing. It is predicted that it will grow until 2040. If, in principle, we exclude Europe and perhaps some North American countries, most of the world and a very large part of the emerging economies have not joined the climate targets that Europe has set itself. And so we still consider the fossil fuel export market to be growing. This is something we should do, which is economically calculated to be profitable for at least another 20 years. It's like this, let's say, the background of the big picture. But the investment of this plant is, of course, huge and we still want to build it in cooperation with the oil producers in the whole sector. Here are a number of nuances that need to be agreed in advance, calculated. Among other things, possible State aid issues, such as the allocation of CO2 quotas to this potential plant, as well as financing issues, are being raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U69	Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U70	Thank you. I actually asked you that, too, and I had a complicated question about what the "time frame" is. Suppose a decision is made. So when is this factory gonna start rising? And I'd like to ask you that. You also stressed that there are studies here to show that the construction of a factory could be profitable. Should the state, then, also contribute to the construction of this plant, or would it be up to all the companies? If we emphasise that it is profitable and, at the same time, we are talking about climate neutrality, is this the right place to put public money in?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U71	Thank you. The state participates there, according to current plans, primarily through 100% of the state-owned company Eesti Energia. This would be an Estonian Energia business project involving other market participants with their own capital. And, of course, we're not talking about much of the equity here, we're talking about the capital involved, is it in the form of a loan or something. So, in this sense, we have not had a debate at the moment, or at least it has not been considered as a serious choice, so that the State participates there with additional capital. This has not been decided in any way right now. We are talking about, above all, that this is one of the possible business projects of Eesti Energia, a fairly large-scale business project: we are talking about hundreds of millions, for which, of course, Eesti Energia must raise other capital, it is the capital or loans of other shareholders or the money involved through different schemes. These schemes have not yet been fully locked or agreed upon. But, as has been said, with these decisions, we want to get somewhere in the first half of next year. As regards the question of whether we should be dealing with oil production and pre-refining oil, my convinced answer is: yes, we must. According to my conviction, oil shale is the wealth of the Estonian people, and not valuing oil shale is no choice for us. I don't think that's an option. The continued introduction and maintenance of the oil shale is something that makes us richer as a whole country and nation. From a regional point of view, it is crucial that we have jobs, decently paid jobs in Viru County, but that is also important to us as export revenues. And as I said in reply to the previous question: a very large part of the world, in principle a large part of Asia, Africa and Latin America, has not taken on climate targets such as those that Europe has adopted and continues to use fossil fuels, and this is on an increasing scale. In this situation, to say that we are no longer mining oil shale and that we do not export it to where it has a market is, in my opinion, not rational.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U72	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm also asking about the time frame of the new oil factory. Like you said, the decision to build it has already been made. Today is the adoption of the state budget. One of the strangest articles in the State Budget Act is the allocation of 125 million euros to Eesti Energia for the construction of a new oil plant. You have, of course, delayed quite a lot of investments in the preparation of the state budget: the airport in Pärnu and the road, as construction has not yet been achieved, procurement is slowing down, there are litigation. They were postponed for this reason. But the new oil plant of Eesti Energia remained in the budget. I've asked about it, and I've got the answer, that in any case, its construction will begin. I am asking about the time frame: how long will it take next year to complete a new oil plant project and whether this construction will start in the first half of the year or in the second half of next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U74	Thank you. First of all, the logic of the state budget. I certainly do not need to explain to you, Aivar, the differences between structural balances and financing transactions. The capital injection in a State-owned company is a financing transaction that does not enter into the calculation of the structural balance. A number of public investments made directly from the budget go into the calculation of structural balance, and that is why we have to save spending in one place and we can spend in another place. Of course, we have conditions ahead of us. This investment must actually be an investment: it must operate on market terms and start to return the money. And it's critical now. If we invest money in the share capital of Eesti Energia so that Eesti Energia can make major investments in expanding production, and this production will bring us export income, then this is something that will basically return money to us in the coming years. It will actually bring back money in the form of dividends from Eesti Energia. In addition, of course, tax revenues, environmental charges, all this is a very-very large pot. When we are talking, for example, about building a regional airport, we naturally call it an investment. It's just nice to call it an investment, but it doesn't correspond to the meaning of a classic investment that you put money in and it brings back the same money, plus it's gonna make a profit. I mean, it's actually gonna work. After that, these regional infrastructure sites still need to be maintained, and the revenue we are talking about is socio-economic. So we keep life and entrepreneurship going even in remote areas outside Tallinn. That's why we're putting more money in one place and maybe we're saving our expenses in another place. The second part of the question was when will the construction begin. If I remember correctly, it's been a little while since this presentation, it's just the design-planning money, and it's not a few millions, it's definitely going to be spent next year. Construction should start in 2021 and 2022, as I recall, and production should start in 2023.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U75	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U76	Question 8. Asks about Vilja Thomas and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U77	Thank you, good manager. Mr. George Ratas! In the spring of this year, you have said that the Prime Minister is ultimately responsible for the actions of the Government and other ministers. That's right. But today I don't know if I have to follow your words or your actions. You are certainly familiar with recent political developments in Finland. In my opinion, Finland has set a very good example of how the internal political crisis should be addressed at government level. The Finnish Prime Minister took responsibility for his coalition partner's failure to believe the version of which the Prime Minister published, explaining the strike and his involvement in this by postal workers who broke out in Finland. The Prime Minister took political responsibility and rushed to the President with a request for resignation. When we come back to Estonia and your government, one scandal is chasing you in the government, and the rule of law has actually been called into question. We have a situation in which the Minister of the Government is calling Members of Parliament dead, calling them brain dead, and threatening us to investigate the defence police. In addition, there have been a number of cases in the last seven months that have forced me to ask why Prime Minister Ratas is not responding. Let's start from the beginning. Coalition partner Mart Helme lied about you in the Marti Kuusik scandal; you allowed Minister Kert Kingo to lie cruelly to Parliament; Minister Järvik's actions you were aware of for almost three months, but you did not react decisively. You are merely saying that this is unacceptable and that this is not the case, nothing more resolute. Why do you think it is particularly difficult for the current government to sense that in a democratic country, in a parliamentary state, it is also appropriate to assume political responsibility by ministers and, in particular, by you, as head of government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U78	Thank you for this question. Excellent! [[Sighs.]] Well, let's try somewhere. You brought in the Republic of Finland. No, I certainly don't know the details of what's going on there. I guess you've made that very clear to yourself. As far as I can see, Finland has a coalition with five political parties. One at least one, I am not so well aware of the coalition partner has said that they will see problems if they should now continue to be in the coalition under the control of the Prime Minister who has already left. At the same time, they said they wanted the Coalition to continue, the Coalition Treaty to survive. And the previous Prime Minister, Antti Front, with whom I had good cooperation, has had a Presidency, and has yet to do so, had this responsibility as well as possible in this difficult situation. I am thinking in particular of the proposals for the next MFF. After all, many countries have had different positions, different positions. It cannot be denied that Estonia does not support Finland's latest proposal either. But, yes, he went to the President of Finland with his statement. Of course, Finland is our very close neighbour, our serious ally in all respects. So we wish Finland all the best and the new Prime Minister all the best. I have a phone call planned with him today, and I am sure, if you will allow me, I will also give him the best wishes from our Parliament. Now, you have mentioned a thousand deadly sins here, all of which have been committed and on which the Prime Minister has not responded, has not jumped or jumped, and so on. Well, I can't say. After all, one minister took responsibility, said he would resign in this situation. We're talking about Kert Kingo. You still resent me that for three months I knew what Mart Järvik was doing, but nothing happened. Well, you can't say that. Yes, it did. A lot happened. I think I took such a proactive attitude. Yeah, there really were no big headlines, but that's not how these issues are solved. Today, the question is, I think, solved and we will move on. The new minister is in office. Last night I spoke to him. He said the first day was very busy and very busy. So when you say that the coalition is going from scandal to scandal, I say that the coalition's health is in order, the coalition is very busy and very motivated.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U79	Fertility Thomas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U80	Thank you. I'll keep asking. Jump and hump, of course, I don't want you to do that. But I will also start my question with the Finnish example. In 2003, Prime Minister Anneli Jäätteenmäki, who is a member of the Centre, resigned because Parliament did not believe his explanation of leaking classified documents. He resigned because trust was lost. A few years later, however, Anneli Jäätteenmäki was declared right by the Finnish court on this matter. An opinion on this was then also requested from Peeter Kreizberg, Vice-Chairman of the Centre Party. Kreizberg thought that it was unlikely that a politician would be able to resign himself in Estonia. He justified his opinion, among other things, by the fact that all the authorities in Estonia know each other. Fortunately, Estonia has done better in the intervening years. We remember that many ministers have resigned because of their sins or those of their subordinates. And the charges against them have certainly not always been as serious as those of the current government. Several governments have also resigned because of the loss of confidence. Now it seems to me that we are going back in time to somewhere in the early 2000s. Haven't you, Mr. Jüri Ratas, ever thought of taking political responsibility and resigning for all these scandals and embarrassing adventures? The minister, along with another man in the country, is looking for bugs in his office, and they talk about it fun in the press. Embarrassing!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U81	Thank you. I am telling you that the leadership of the Centre Party in 2003 and cooperation with the Centre will certainly be better known to you than I am. So I'm willing to listen to the leadership of the Centre Party in 2003. You know, Mrs. Vilja from Thomas, I'm sure it's better than me. Now, your question about me. I want to say that every day I bear the responsibility of the Prime Minister. Every day, every hour, every second, that's how it is. You're asking if I have a plan to resign. On the contrary, the current coalition has only a plan to move forward. Regular elections will be held in three and a half years. The coalition agreement, the action plan, the targets have been set for four years, and this agreement we will meet. I don't know, coalitions usually fall apart as a rule! From the inside. What you want is understandable. You want the coalition to fall and the Reform Party to get out of the opposition coalition. It's not a bad wish. That is an understandable desire, and you must make it clear every day that the ruling coalition is bad and bad and cannot act. The Prime Minister, however, should resign. This is a political debate, and that is the kind of political debate that is needed. I think that if there are five political parties in this Chamber and if all these parties are able to be in opposition or coalition at one point, then Estonia's political culture is very well off. It has been an honor to be with you at the Centre Party. You know that we were in opposition for ten years for a very long time. I think that your approach is not right, and therefore I believe that Estonia's political culture has improved in any case. There is no way in the Riigikogu that we will not cooperate with this party or another party under any circumstances. I'll be honest with you, it was kind of a tough time for the whole Central Party. Some stayed in the party, some chose the easy way and went.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U82	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Since you have answered so many questions today, it is possible to read a few links from each answer. That last question I asked you didn't really answer that question. You tried to give the impression that 17 years before you became Prime Minister, the governments did not pay transitional payments to farmers. But it wasn't really like that. You should know that as a former member of the Riigikogu and now as a member of the government. But I was also concerned that you indicated that you yourself went to talk to the farmers yesterday and received commendable estimates. But you obviously did not notice that the Farmers' Confederation did not join this action, and there are several reasons for this. One reason is that young farmers and entrepreneurs who have started after 2010 will not benefit from this transitional support. And they think it's actually unfair to them. In this sense, the choice was clear that only large companies and old companies would be part of it, and therefore some of the previous governments paid crisis aid, which reached everyone. But that's actually the kind of thing that made me particularly sad. If the government and government representatives are responsible, they could be, as I say, sincere and honest. But what if the Minister of Finance says something to Postman and farmers that if they're not happy with it, I'd like to see those members of the government who will be standing at the table next time for the farmers? I would like you to comment on what Minister of Finance Martin Helme has said. I think it was clearly an insult, not a reference to the principles that we have, that we have responsibility, that we have the principles on which we behave. No, if you disagree with my money, next time, don't expect that support! Is this really how it works in your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U84	Thank you for this very worrying question. You first questioned whether I was genuinely answering you. Of course I did! You also claimed in your question that I had said that 17 years had not been paid out of this top-up. I remember exactly what I said. I said that in 2016 a new coalition came and before it was not paid for two years, and then I made a further addition that maybe it was three years when no top-up was paid. Two and three are very different numbers from seventeen. I have never said that in this briefing. You must have had a mistake here, not on purpose, but by accident. Yes, I know that the Farmers' Confederation did not participate in this action. That's right. Now, have the answers of the Minister of Finance been sincere and honest today? Of course, they have been sincere and honest, and my answers have also been sincere and honest. So much more than farmers' support that you say the Minister of Finance has said that if you're not happy with it, next time you won't get anything. I want to say that my sense was that all 15 members of the government wanted to do everything they could to make sure that we could pay the top-up grants in 2020 as much as possible. And the concern for the Estonian farmer, for the rural area, I do not count from anything that it is not, or it is fake. On the contrary! We are also currently doing a national budget strategy, and it is true that this top-up payment option is not foreseen for the next MFF by the spring of 2020. However, these negotiations are ongoing in Brussels, and it should still be our first wish that we can, as far as possible, equalise agricultural subsidies, negotiate them. However, it should also be pointed out that it would still be possible to pay these top-up grants in the next budget period or in the future. I certainly support that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U85	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U86	The next question is question 9, which is presented by Maris Lauri. Reply to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U87	Thank you. Mr. George Ratas! Education is known to be more than education. We are doing well with the latter, according to the PISA tests, but we are not doing well with the school passion that the same test showed. The reasons for school religion are also known not only at school but also at home and, above all, in society. Three weeks ago there was a situation here in the Riigikogu where the balcony had a large number of schoolchildren who had come to the Riigikogu for a tour, and then the person who played the role of Prime Minister in this Chamber that day declared that the members of the Riigikogu were insane and brain dead. A week ago, the members of the Riigikogu were shouted at and praised for how well they are able to fight. This was again done by the person who fulfilled the Prime Minister's duties. What, in your opinion, is the impact of such conduct on schoolchildren, and what is your assessment of such conduct?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U88	Thank you for this question. I think the problem of bullying and bullying at all is very serious. And it seems to me that school bullying is, unfortunately, somewhat similar to domestic violence, close-up violence. It won't come out. The reasons are certainly very different as to why it does not become public, whether or not students dare to say whether or not they pay enough attention to it, it is feared that if it comes out, it will continue. A very serious question, a very serious issue. I think that bullying at school has been very different between different times, it has been more physical, sometimes more spiritual, bullying with words. And they're both crazy, they're both crazy in the same way. We have also talked quite a lot about this with the Minister of Education and Research, who is making a very serious effort in cooperation with schools, in cooperation with the municipalities, to do everything in order to ensure that there is as little school-pushing as possible. It'd be great if it wasn't at all. The school environment needs to be safe, comfortable, cozy, friendly this is very important, very important. Now, on the other hand, your question. You say that many groups of schools come here and that it is important what words are said here. I admit that I think that if we talk about school today or yesterday, this fight doesn't set a good example for schoolchildren. However, we cannot say that there are no such things in school. I know from my experience, I've seen fights in the hallways in high school. I'm sure it's bad. I've also had quite a few opportunities, you mentioned that school excursions will also meet hundreds of classes in the Riigikogu on the balcony in this building. And I assure you that the role of such an active citizen is quite often taken as a student. Students intervene when they see either verbal bullying or physical bullying. It's important if they go in and say it's not tolerant, or vice versa, say you're good, put it on. It seems to me that young people today are rather trying to get caught, trying to say that this cannot be done, it must not be tolerated.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U89	Maris Lauri, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U90	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! It's very nice of you to know what a school-pushing thing is and how serious it is. But my question was actually about something else. I asked you what your assessment of such behaviour is when a member of your government, a person who performs the duties of Prime Minister, behaves in the Riigikogu as he has done here. I read these cases to you too. The Riigikogu is known to be a representative organisation of voters, Estonian citizens, and also an employer for the government. And in this situation, a person who is better rewarded than a simple member of the Riigikogu will say such words to members of the Riigikogu! He's actually saying that to the people, to the voters. So I ask you again: please tell me, what is your assessment of this behaviour? And I'll remind you of one thing. Education is also illustrated by the way the question is answered. Maybe it's a bit of an old-fashioned approach, but the question has to be answered on the basis of what is essentially the answer. So I ask you to answer your assessment that a person who fulfils the Prime Minister's duties taunts the members of the Riigikogu, insults, screams and brags about how he has fought, and does so in front of guests, including children.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U91	Thank you. I agree with that in any case that it is a good thing that we can hold a debate so that there are specific questions and there are specific answers. That is very right: as you say, one must answer what is being asked for. Often, I have the feeling that the problem is not to answer the question but to answer it as the questioner asks. Of course the questioner doesn't like it. Let us be honest, this is very often a problem in politics. But when you asked me if I resented the fight, I said yes, I resented it. Do politicians, I don't know, members of the government or also members of the Riigikogu, be allowed to communicate abusively or insultingly? The answer is no. This is not a good example.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U92	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U93	Thank you very much. Indeed, that day my guests were also on the balcony. There were Kääpa school students and Antsla school students. And I met the students after Antsla school, and for the first time in five years, I had to say to the students, "I'm sorry! That is what you have just seen in the Riigikogu is unacceptable. You can't do that to people. ' I really feel sorry for you guys. We're talking about bullying at school, but you're actually constantly in the role of the person who needs to intervene, who needs to get disciplined. And you really have performed this role perfectly. But also in the case of school-pushing and close-relationship violence, it should be the case that the following decisions have to be taken if there have been several interventions, but the behaviour still remains unchanged. There must be another way to react to this violence, to this mockery. Then the response would be more effective. What do you think: what should be the next step if just intervention and condemnation and saying that these things do not have a place in Estonia are not enough? What is this next step?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U94	Thank you. Certainly my greetings to both Kääpa and Antsla school students. I think it is commendable that you invited them to this Riigikogu. Make sure you do so in the future! You feel sorry for me? Well, thank you. There is no need to be sorry here, but I think I have had a human relationship with you both during the composition of this Riigikogu and at the previous time. Now those next decisions you asked about. One foreman, Vilja Thomas, asked me when I would resign. On your question, I understand, there's a little bit of the undertone when Mart Helme resigns or when the Prime Minister tells Mart Helme to leave the government. What I'm trying to say is that today I feel that no member of the government is in favour of bullying at school. I remember, we even had an office meeting or a government hearing, it doesn't play a special role right now, where Mart Helme was the one who started talking very seriously about the issue of mental health in our society at large. We went to North-Estonian Regional Hospital a few weeks ago and there, too, we discussed this issue very seriously. On the contrary, I say that I think all members of the government are trying to make sure that there is less bullying and, I don't know, hatred, bad attitudes in society. It's important. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U95	Thank you. For the sake of accuracy, I remind honourable colleagues that the Minister said 'Shut up! ' in this Chamber, because a member of the Riigikogu broke order, intervened loudly in his words, he refused to answer the question. It came from that, and it was really very embarrassing. I also take this personally as a remark about myself and the next time there are such irregularities, I will react more quickly. But thanks a lot, this question has been addressed!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U96	Let's go to the next question, question 10. Presents this Urmas Kruuse, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U97	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable Prime Minister! The answer to the previous question slightly changed the course of my question, but it seems to me that you are also the victim of school bullying. At least this is the way the public has sometimes responded, suggesting that you are a hostage to the EKRE. Maybe to start with management decisions so much that if you send someone who doesn't know how to act consistently, I get the impression that it'll give him a boost to act worse next time. I recommend that, based on my experience, this representative be replaced. For a while, he could put her on a bench until he starts behaving politely with Members of Parliament. Despite the fact that we have disagreed with you on a number of issues, I never remember us treating each other the way we have been here for your replacement. This proves that it is possible to behave differently, even though opinions differ. But my key question with regard to management decisions is this. When you spoke of the dismissal of Chancellor Illar Lemetti and the Minister for Rural Affairs, you indicated that this was a purely managerial decision. I think that was the mistake of dealing with the case, that you only saw it as a management decision. After all, we learned later that in August the chancellor visited you and told you about the situation that has developed in the Ministry of Rural Affairs. He must have had very specific references, as the State Secretary's report confirmed. What the chancellor told you turned out to be true. As Prime Minister, you certainly had the opportunity to intervene adequately at that moment, but I think you were satisfied with Mart Järvik's assurance that everything was okay and there was nothing like that. Would you like to comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U98	Thank you. I'll take a slice of your question. I never thought that if Liina Kersna asked about bullying at school, she'd be kidding. But it seems to me that you turned that wagon backwards. I thought for a long time that you said I was the victim of bullying at school. I thought you had good contacts with my teachers or my former schools, but you put it in the context of the EKRE. Well, I don't know, I think it's a bad irony. But I guess that's up to you. The fact that you are asking me here, a good questioner, about the Minister of the Interior and the EKRE shows that in fact you will continue to live on March 3, 2019. Yes, that is the case: on 3 March 2019 elections were held and the Riigikogu was formed. The Riigikogu met and started political competition on who can agree on ideas, platform and programme. And three political parties were able to agree that a coalition would be formed: the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Fatherland Party and the Centre Party. It's real, it's real. Whether anyone likes it or doesn't like it, it's a question of their own, but I don't think you're okay with it. You can't blame it either. But actually, you're always telling us to stop this coalition. I say back to you: coalition works. Why do I have to stop this? Don't have to stop at all! Now for management decisions. I also said, in answering one previous question, that management decisions are always risk-related decisions. I believe that, in a particular case, such a management decision had to be taken. The minister brought to the government a proposal for cooperation not working well; there is no cooperation. In fact, the government has nothing else to do but satisfy this proposal. This is what I saw, too, that this cooperation did not work in any way. Now, you said on this other subject relating to the Minister that I said that everything was fine. I didn't say it was okay. On the contrary, I continued to act. Really, maybe you would have liked to see the media have big headlines. I didn't do it, I did the job. And we finally figured out where we are today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U99	Thank you. It's so far away that we can't ask any more questions and answer them. I thank all the questioners and thank all the ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U100	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 11th working week. To begin with, members of the Riigikogu are able to deliver drafts and questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Socialists, I have two questions to address, one to the Prime Minister and the other to the Minister of Social Affairs. They concern pharmaceutical policy. In 2015, the Riigikogu adopted amendments to the pharmaceutical law, which improve competition on the pharmaceutical market and reduce the oligopolistic influence of large pharmaceutical companies in an area so important from a public health point of view. These amendments should enter into force on 1 April 2020. Although large pharmaceutical companies, more specifically pharmaceutical wholesalers, have repeatedly tried to turn Pharmacy Reform into a ditch over the last five years, politicians have still been able to put the interests of the Estonian people, not of individual businessmen, at the forefront. The government coalition has now initiated a draft pharmaceutical law That's what we all pay for in the form of higher pharmaceutical prices. The Prime Minister has just said in Question Time that the draft medicine law has been initiated in the Riigikogu and, though, by the government, Tanel Kiik, who, as if, supports the implementation of the pharmacy reform in words, will certainly make his proposals on it, and that this is the way it should be done. No, it certainly doesn't have to work that way. Well, it shouldn't be the case that the lawyers hired by the pharmaceutical businessmen write a bill, the middle party mölder carries it to Parliament, but it doesn't even bother to think of a lie about where he got the bill, Priit Sibul gives it over and uses it to one of the propaganda stories that the pharmaceuticals wholesalers even use in the media and here. The Prime Minister says that laws cannot be bought in Estonia; he just said so. And yet Priit Sibula's social policy expertise has remained unnoticed by the public so far, to say the least. However, we have very much noticed how he is in a financial relationship with Margus Linnamäe, as the Secretary-General of the Fatherland, for whom it is clearly in the interests of the draft which was put into the procedure last night by Oniona. [[Voices in the hall.]] The Prime Minister, who, during his first government, supported the reform of the pharmacy and, like I, opposed the proposals and attempts made by Priit Sibula at the time, has suddenly taken the side of the pharmacy businessmen. Of course, a donation of EUR 100000 made to the Prime Minister's Centre Party by the co-owner of Magnum Medical, the largest pharmaceutical wholesaler, will play no role in this. This thing smells like corruption from every possible point of view. The most disgusting thing about it is that most of the excessive wealth of pharmaceutical salesmen comes at the expense of old and sick people. This is the case in a country where the relative livelihood of the elderly is one of the poorest in Europe. It is simply disgusting to see people elected to represent the people, with a clever grin, cynically taking their last pension savings out of the pockets of old people and giving them to the wealthiest in society. Consequently, together with my colleagues, I will ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Affairs a number of questions. Let the Wheel and the Swing not hide behind this nonsense that Parliament initiated and the Government knows nothing. The weakest abduction of society will be carried out with their approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U102	Thank you. There is no further request for referrals and drafts. I have received two inquiries on behalf of the Bureau. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up a support group to make the state budget understandable. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The caller is Peter Ernits. Incoming check, please! 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U103	Let's go to the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the Act on the Election of the European Parliament, the Act on the Election of the Local Government Council, the Act on the Election of the Riigikogu, the Act on the Referendum and the draft Act amending the Penal Code. Do the political groups want to negotiate? Raimond Kaljulaid, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U104	I also have the authority to hand it over to you so that everything is official. Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, That the Social Democratic Party does not support the adoption of this draft in this form, we have already expressed our support at second reading. There is no point in repeating these arguments. Of course, we still consider it necessary to limit election costs, but it is still incomprehensible in this draft why the Riigikogu wishes to allow electoral agitation on election day. The main reference has been to the fact that electoral agitation is allowed during the primary elections. However, I believe that this is precisely the reason why we should not support the abolition of the ban on electoral agitation. It is, in fact, the only day that the electorate can concentrate unhindered and without any influence on the decision he is voting for. I also recall, ladies and gentlemen, that all of us and local politicians actually have four years, four times 365 days to explain their positions. It is almost a thousand and a half days in which politicians can talk. I think that voters deserve this for just one day, if only they really talk, and we do not need this extra day. For this reason, we call once again on all of you, please, to vote against this draft or at least leave it without a vote of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U105	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. I recall that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is necessary for the adoption of this draft. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law on the election of the European Parliament initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the election of the local government council, on the election of the Riigikogu, on the amendment of the referendum law and on the amendment of the penal code 51. Please take a stand and vote. 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 23 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U106	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the State Tax Act, the Identity Documents Act and the Consular Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiations, we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? We have several final votes in succession. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law amending the State Tax Act, the Identity Documents Act and the Consular Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic 78. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U107	Today's third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and the State Fees Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiations, we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Law on the Amendment of the Law on State Fees 8. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U108	Today's fourth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. Aivar Kokk on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U109	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the law adopted today, the competitiveness of enterprises that grow vegetables, salads and herbs in protected areas will be improved. The Act specifies that the production of electricity and heat used for the production of products produced by the company's main activity is not considered as an ancillary activity. Estonian companies, which are active in glasshouse gardening, have so far not been able to benefit from the widespread possibility of obtaining a gas excise concession in the European Union. As a result of the legislative amendment, companies will be authorised to apply for a reduction of the gas excise duty to the European Union minimum rate. In addition, these energy-intensive companies will have a 90% reduction in electricity excise duty. Gas as an energy source is the most effective and environmentally friendly option for glasshouse gardening in our climate zones. Modern technology allows, at the same time and with a minimum ecological footprint, to produce both electricity and heat for the production process and carbon dioxide for photosynthesis. Due to the amendment of the law, the production price of Estonian companies will decrease and improve their competitiveness. I hope that this will give Estonian companies the courage to make investments and expansion plans and help attract new investments in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U110	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation by the political groups. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Social Tax Act, the Income Tax Act and other laws 80. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U111	Today's fifth item is draft law 106 on amendments to the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. Riina Sikkut on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U112	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have talked about the fact that if we are planning tax changes, we should consider how income is distributed in Estonia, and we should look at the distributional effect of tax changes. This bill does a lot of good things for maternity benefit, redundancy benefit and survivors' pensions. Indeed, the fact that it is possible to divide your income over a longer period in the light of our income-free income accounting system is reasonable, but there is also an additional tax exemption for a third child of EUR 3048. That's great. Of course we need more kids. But the aim of the change is to support families with many children. In 2017, there were 16737 families with at least three underage children. These are those who could benefit from additional tax-free income. In fact, the explanatory memorandum already states that additional tax-free incomes do not affect inequality and poverty, as families living in poverty do not have enough income to use additional tax-free income. The change benefits families with incomes from 1000 euros per month if they do not have any other deductions. Since we have EUR 500 per month and EUR 6000 per year exempt from income tax, EUR 1848 for the second child is exempt from income tax, EUR 3048 for the third child is exempt from income tax and EUR 1200 for the deduction of gifts, donations and interest expenses, in fact, a family wishing to use the third child's income tax exemption must earn approximately the average income in Estonia. If we look at the distribution of income, we can see that a large proportion of families, including a large proportion of families with three children, really cannot benefit from this benefit. Let's look at the projected budgetary impact. It is EUR 2.7 million per year. The question is, if we want to support families of many children and families of three children living in poverty, is this the most appropriate way to spend EUR 2.7 million every year? It's a question for all of us. If we are planning tax changes, we should bear in mind who will actually benefit from this advantage, what this potential effect is and whether we are actually helping those we want to help with this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U113	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland of Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U114	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the amendment of the Income Tax Act, we are losing a number of inconsistencies. The draft exempts from income tax a subsidy paid to a natural person to improve the living conditions of a family rich in children and to improve the energy efficiency of a small house. Nor will there be a reduction in the additional tax-free income for the child if the child receives a survivor's pension or a national pension in the event of the loss of the provider. In the case of maternity benefit and adoption benefit paid in the fourth quarter of the calendar year or redundancy benefit paid under the Employment Contracts Act, the Public Service Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, there is a possibility to convert tax liability according to the number of months. The deadline for the submission of a declaration of income of a natural person, a non-resident, a management company of a collective investment undertaking and a public limited liability company fund shall be extended until 30 April and the time limit for payment and refund of income tax shall be extended until 1 October. In addition, the threshold for the payment of advance payments by self-employed workers is increased from EUR 64 to EUR 300. Therefore, advance payments are not required if the amount of a quarterly payment does not exceed EUR 300. Income received from abroad by a resident natural person, including retirement, shall be subject to deductions equivalent to income obtained in Estonia from taxable income in accordance with paragraph 12.34 of the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic 2019 Finally, we have different ideas. If the previous speaker thinks that fish must always be given, then the coalition, but especially the party of Isamaa, thinks that people should be given a fishing rod. I think it is very important that the additional tax-free income for the child will increase from the third child to EUR 100 per month, i.e. the tax-free income will amount to EUR 1200 per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U115	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiations, and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws 106. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U116	Today's sixth item is the third reading of the draft State Budget Act 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur. I remind the members of the Riigikogu that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to submit two oral questions to the rapporteur at the third reading of the state budget. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U117	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading discussion of the draft State Budget Act 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic took place here in the Riigikogu's plenary assembly on 13 November and the second reading of the draft was completed. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 27 November. The Committee on Finance prepared a third reading of the draft on 3, 9 and 10 December. At the meeting on 18 November, representatives of Eesti Pank gave an overview of the financial stability of the euro area and the Estonian economy. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose a proposal for a third reading by 11 December and a final vote. The decisions were consensual. Now I am talking about the amendments. By the deadline for submitting amendments, including 27 November, the Estonian Reform Party Group tabled seven amendments to the draft. Several of these proposals overlapd with the amendments tabled for second reading. Explanations of the amendments can be found in the list of amendments. The Committee on Finance drew up six amendments. The Commission's first amendment largely consists of a number of clarifications within and between the areas of government of the ministries. The amendments have been drawn up on the basis of additional information from ministries and specific explanations have been included in the list of amendments to each amendment clause. The second amendment will increase regional investment, support various projects in the third sector and civil society, based on proposals from political groups and the referrals received by the Committee on Monetary Affairs (Annex 1 in the summary list of amendments). The third proposal will increase transitional support for agriculture. The fourth proposal ensures that the draft law amending the Income Tax Act and the draft law amending the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Tax Act and the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws are taken into account in the state budget. In addition, the wording of the text of the draft paragraphs was amended and supplemented. The Finance Committee also discussed a letter from the Minister of Culture, following the proposal by the Estonian Football Association that the funds for building internal halls in Haapsalu, Raplas, Viljandi and Tartu should be used for 2020. The text of the draft has made linguistic and technical improvements. The proposals of the Estonian Reform Party Group did not support the majority of the Commission, nor did the Government of the Republic support them. According to § 120 (5) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, amendments submitted after the completion of the second reading of the draft state budget, which are not supported by the Government of the Republic and which have not been taken into consideration by the leading committee, are not to be voted on. For the most important reasons of not taking into account the amendments, more may be said if there is a wish, but I understand that there are many questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U118	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U119	Thank you. Here's the question. I am delighted that we all learn more and more each day and gain more knowledge. And I am pleased that the Commission and the Chairman of the Commission have also received them. When, for the second reading, I, along with my colleagues, proposed an amendment to increase the single agricultural payment, the Commission felt that this could not be done, the Ministry said that this was not a good proposal, but now, see, the Commission has become a seer and half of this money has been found. I'm asking what happened in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U120	Thank you, Kalvi, for a good question. I recall how I replied here: we will do everything in the Commission to make sure that we find the means there. And the reasoning is very simple. Although I have to admit to you what you didn't ask for (you could have picked on me in a good way) that either way, the source of the cover is the same. I will explain why this proposal could not be supported the first time: at this point we did not know how much government reserves would not be used this year. At the time of the vote in the committee on this amendment, it was clear that almost 20 million unused funds would remain this year, which would be transferred to the next year. As you know, in all years we have tried to keep a government reserve of 25 to 30 million, which could be used when an emergency situation arises. For next year's state budget, this reserve is guaranteed in this order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U121	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. To the third reading, the Reform Party Group proposed, among other amendments, an increase in teachers' pay, in the hope that the vote-off at second reading had caused some remorse in the Commission. The amendment is a concrete step towards an average wage for teachers of 120% of the national average in the near future. The members of the coalition in the Committee on Monetary Affairs voted unanimously against this proposal. You may know that voting off the amendment will affect next year, but the impact of teacher work on Estonia will last for the next hundred years. How easy was it for you to accept the decision not to take this into account, Mr President of the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U123	Thank you, Urve, for a very good question. I'm trying to find this place so I'm not wrong. If we look at the state budget for next year that is currently under discussion, we must state the fact that next year the minimum wage for teachers in general education school will increase by 5.2%, from EUR 1250 to EUR 1315 and the teacher's estimated average salary will be at least EUR 1540. With regard to the same issue, the target is that the share of labour costs in the education expenditure of the general government will be 60% in 2020 and 59% in the education expenditure of the general government. In this sense, the increase in this budget is planned. It is certainly not as big as we would all like in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, but it is done according to the possibilities of today's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U124	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Next year's state budget is clearly the least understandable ever. The Chancellor of Justice has also indicated that it is completely opaque. That is why I am not surprised that today, here in the Riigikogu, a support group is set up to increase the comprehension of the budget. But I have a specific question. I'm gonna make one last attempt at clarity here. We have discussed this very strange item in the budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs: 125 million will be allocated to Eesti Energia to build a new oil plant. Today, on the last day, however, the Minister of Finance managed to find out that the construction of the oil plant will not start next year, that this money will go mainly to design. I will make a final attempt just before the adoption of the budget. The amount shall consist of the additions. Just tell me to the nearest 10 million, how this 125 million euros is divided, how much money there is for designing and how much construction money there is here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U126	Thank you, Mr Aivar, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Such questions can be asked by the Commission to the Minister for Industry. Unfortunately, when the Minister was on the Commission, you did not ask that question. You presented it when an official from the Treasury Department came and asked him. I can't answer better than Regina Field answered you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U127	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U128	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Dear waitress, My question is about funding science. As we know, the government coalition has broken its signed science finance agreement, 1% of GDP. This promise is not being fulfilled in the state budget. For both specific and more indirect reasons (e.g. changing the principles of sectoral support allocation), the first very painful and dangerous signs of setbacks have already emerged. Social sciences have received disproportionately little funding. From today's Postimees, you can read an appropriate article, by the way, which I recommend to you, which says, among other things, that the loss of social scientific competence in organizing and understanding social life poses the same security risk as the disbanding of the Defence Forces, and, in the case of soft and inconspicuous loss, it is even more insidious. What about funding science? When will this promise be turned into action?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U129	Thank you. We must definitely start by saying that this coalition has not made such a promise, but during the previous term, the party presidents signed such an agreement. Next year's state budget's research money will increase. I met with entrepreneurs yesterday, just the industrialists. They ask the other way around about this research money: which areas does the most really come from in the state budget, and does research money go into this area in the proportion that is actually part of the Estonian economy? It is certainly important to increase research money, no one can argue against it in this Chamber, but on the other hand, one should certainly review what is most appropriate for which it is to share the money that is in the budget today and what will be there in the coming years. The goal is to reach 1%, but given the possibilities of the state budget, this number is exactly what it is today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U130	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U131	Thank you. Dear waitress, My question relates to Amendment 11, not to it itself, but to the 32-page table that comes with it. I am astonished by a number of suggestions or decisions. For example, the Pelgulinn Society has been allocated EUR 5 000 twice for operating grants and road nights. As a North-Tallinn district manager myself, I know that so far the district government has always found money to support this kind of activity. Is Tallinn now out of money in the city budget, or why are you doing this? But I'm going to ask you a more specific question about the same table. What regional policy dimension does the allocation of EUR 5000 to the NGO Ravikanep as operating grant?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U132	Thank you for a very good question. That was also the question we had in the Commission. I'm telling you, I think it should be in the budget that it's being allocated to the Ministry of Finance today... [[V. Thomas is talking about the hall.]] No, no, in the sense that the money is physically still in the ministry, and the Ministry is either signing a contract with an NGO or the one to whom the money is allocated, the money is going to get there through the Ministry, it's not going to get there directly. Certainly, these contracts are awarded when they are concluded, and there is no obligation to conclude on the basis of the proposals made by the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups that have reached this bill. Anyone who's proposed a correction knows what's behind it. I admit that the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not discuss these almost 500 proposals one by one. We discussed these proposals, which were not directly supported by the ministries, then the representative of the proposal and the Ministry consulted each other, and there were things that were also being changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U133	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U134	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! The way you answered Heidy Purga's question, we're all in favour of some sort of thing. We are all in favour of increasing research funding, and the area of mental health is also one of the areas in which we are all in favour, but they remain only words. If we start making real decisions, we're not so much in favour. We proposed that the state finance the professional year of clinical psychologists and school psychologists, and put the government in reserve as a source of cover. It was said that a very good amendment is certainly needed, but the source of the cover is wrong. We now see that the government's reserve is perfectly appropriate to cover the amendments proposed by the coalition. Why do they make that distinction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U135	Thank you, Liina! Thank you for asking me that question! For a very simple reason. This is purely my personal opinion, we have not discussed it together with the members of the Commission, but I have also found a number of possibilities and sources of protection for the amendments, but today's budget law is on the table, and we have made it so difficult for ourselves over the years to find a source of cover in this Chamber other than a government reserve that could be supported. I certainly promise that, at the beginning of next year, we will jointly table this entire budget system in order to try to improve it. I felt it myself when, a few days ago, I found the source of the cover that everyone acknowledged fit, also the ministry officials, but ultimately it was said that let's not use it because it is not good or it is not possible. I think the use of government reserves is the last option, and we have used it today. You have a legitimate question as to why one proposal has been preferred to another. I guess we have to be honest with you that these are political decisions. As I said to farmers yesterday, there are many areas that Riigikogu members would like to support, but there is never such a state budget in Estonia that all wishes can be met.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U136	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U137	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! This is my first state budget to deal with here in the Riigikogu, in the same way in the Commission. I regret to say that this is the most opaque budget I have ever seen. There are many entries that are in thousands or tens of thousands of thousands, to which a lot of talk is devoted, and there are many entries that are in hundreds of millions or billions, and which are relatively little spoken out. But I know you promised that we would take it all off the committee alone at the beginning of next year and get a better format for moving forward. My question concerns Amendment 3, which you have rejected, and which concerns increasing innovation and research funding. Please, just say again these substantive reasons why the government and the government coalition did not consider it possible to increase funding for research and innovation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U138	Good Andres! I appreciate you being a finance specialist. You understand perfectly well that the amount doesn't depend on the pocket you have money in, you still have one in two or three pockets. It's a question of deciding which pocket you put in how much money you put in. Well, that's a matter of division between areas, isn't it? A girl sitting next to you wants one, someone else wants to support the other and the third. Everyone has one area or several areas at their heart, and everyone would like investment or funding in this area to increase. I think one of the mistakes of the Riigikogu is that we are discussing the state budget when it has reached the hall at the end of September and has been handed over. In fact, the debate on priorities and wishes for next year could begin today. When the 2020 budget is adopted, we should start talking about 2021. Then maybe in a good way miracles happen that solve things that most people want to solve. We do not have a broad and long-term debate today. The first state budget has always been made in a hurry after the elections. The government will be in place, while the RES should already be discussed, in August everyone will be waiting for the autumn forecast, and in two and a half weeks the government will have to put the budget together and send it here. Here's a point on how to deal with these things in the future. If we are also talking about changes to the state budget for this year or about the 2018 report that we approved last week, then it is clear that there are things that are happening very late and very late and there are no solutions to be found. I believe that these are the places that we can think about and improve together over the next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U139	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U140	Thank you. Good waitress! Would you be so good as to explain to me how hundreds of operating grants, or operating costs, can be investments?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U141	If I understand correctly, you're asking, Maris, about the regional investment line. Yeah, that's a very good question. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to reach an agreement on what form and lines regional investments should take. If you ask me, my vision is definitely different from that of many others. I'm not arguing whether it's an investment cost or an operating cost. This is an issue that could be discussed in the other way, but the proposals for improvements of EUR 2000-3000 are clearly small, they could come more from umbrella organisations and institutions that see where there are disadvantages and benefits. At the same time, I must say that all members of the Riigikogu have been given the opportunity to make proposals, and I think that neither the chairman of the committee nor the Commission has much to argue about this. As long as the rules of the game have not been agreed, it will be difficult to answer as you would like.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U142	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! These regional investments may not be called real investments, at least Minister of Finance Martin Helme here quoted such a classic investment principle. But I have a completely different question. We had a meeting of the Committee on Rural Affairs this week and there were representatives of the VTA and the Health Board. One of the problems that emerged from it was the ability to carry out analyses and samples, including the subject of apparatus and laboratory equipment. Why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs, or rather the coalition, not support the amendment that would have provided the VTA with additional resources to be a faster partner for companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U144	That's a good question. I think the answer is even better. You're the vice-president of the Rural Affairs Committee. Why has the Committee on Rural Affairs not made such a proposal? I have to admit very honestly that I expected the Commission to come up with proposals. Thanks to yesterday, I was thinking a little bit more about this subject. The question now is why the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not done one, the other or the third. There are more than ten committees in the Riigikogu, the best sons and daughters in their field are members of these committees. I don't want to contradict the fact that you put forward a proposal, let's say, on behalf of the Reform Party, but I want to get to the beginning. I believe that very many of those in the Committee on Monetary Affairs expected support; they expected this proposal to come from somewhere else, not just, let us say, a political proposal. The Ministry of Rural Affairs is the head of this field; the Committee on Rural Affairs is the controller of this field in a literal sense and these two institutions should feel it. First of all, let us ask whether the Ministry has the capacity to move sums from one line to another. We saw some redeployments in the state budget this year, tens of millions being redeployed over the last month and a half. This means that every ministry has resources for such investments. If I see a 3% increase in the state budget this year, and we all read in the press that there is no ministry where it increased by less than 10%, then the funds are available. I agree with Aivar a hundred percent in that regard. Budget transparency. You can always say we're doing it on a glass, it looks better, but readability must be such that we can see where it's possible to argue that this line is overformed and where the money should be put on the line. I'm just asking you to apologize, we couldn't find a place to use that cover. The point is right, but this job should definitely be done by the Commission and the Ministry. I can say that I came up here during the vote before yesterday because we asked for support from the Ministry. This letter came to your committee, so I didn't get a reply. We did it, it's this whole catfish thing. After all, we are still waiting in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for proposals from the sectoral committees. If there was a proposal from the Ministry and the Commission alongside your proposal, it would be very difficult not to support it, and then we could discuss with the Minister whether it is not possible to shift something within the Ministry or whether we need to find a source of cover elsewhere. I'm telling you honestly, yesterday made me think. When everyone goes up to the tractor box, everyone says, "Where were the suggestions?" I am not talking about the proposals of the members of the Riigikogu, but I am talking about the proposals of the leading institutions of the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U145	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U146	Thank you, good manager. Mr Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As we have heard, today, after the sitting, a working group will meet in this Chamber (this is now my free wording) to deal with increasing the transparency of the state budget. But here we are asking and debating the issue of an opaque budget at third reading. How do you feel about yourself as Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs as guardian of an opaque budget? In your opinion, does the opposition have at least one such amendment that you would have liked to support in a more favourable political situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U147	Thank you. As regards the first part of the question, there are two members of the Riigikogu who are much easier to process and discuss this budget than everyone else, because we have been to the whole process, with all the debates. That may make it a little easier for us to answer. When Aivar Sõerd said on a subject yesterday that it was absurd, the minutes state the minister's answer as I replied yesterday. I was in the middle of these discussions, and at that point this was also the answer from the Ministry. This is the answer to the first part of the question. I forgot the other half. You asked what a suggestion it would have been. I can tell you that if you listened carefully to today's item number... What's this, the fifth?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U148	Six.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U149	Then the fifth point. There we took into account a great many proposals from the Reform Party and the Social Democrats. This was on the side of the Income Tax Act, which had made mistakes in previous years, certainly not intentionally, but did not know everything about law making. We fixed them. It amounted to 1.3 million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U150	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U151	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! This government goes down in history with a lot of things. Many of them are quite negative, and one of them is that it is the first coalition to tax the average pension in the Republic of Estonia, though in part. My question is that the Prime Minister spoke here some time ago, because money is not, of course, rather strange, but yesterday you revealed the well-held secret that the reason is actually the lack of IT solutions. I don't understand, someone's misleading now or someone's wrestling. Is that the Prime Minister, or is that you? I am actually a little surprised by this statement on IT solutions, because, under the leadership of the Reform Party, we managed to keep the average pension exempt from income tax all the time and the IT solutions worked. What happened to the IT solutions that they no longer work during this government coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U152	Thank you, Thomas, for a very good question. I recommend to opposition politicians that if they ask for something, they always think through the question that the answer will never come back to them. In a good or bad way, all social ministers, regardless of the political party, have tried to solve social problems with a programme such as the SKAIS2. Unfortunately, the first six or seven years and more than EUR 10 million were written in the chimneys, and this was not during this or the previous coalition. Today, the SKAIS2 programme has reached a certain instance. But let's explain who's lying and who's not lying. This IT theme wasn't a big secret yesterday. I also said this at second reading, but I will take a further extract from the minutes of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu on 22 October: 'Aivar Kokk asked about the possibility of an average pension tax exemption. Tanel Kiik replied that if a certain tax refund was to be made through the Tax and Customs Board, as is the case with several other types of income, it would be easier. If this is to be done through the Social Insurance Board, whose system is twenty years old, it would be very time-consuming and costly. The Social Protection Information System (SKAIS1) is not a viable development; it is gradually getting out of use. The new scheme for SKIAIS2 pension part is planned to enter into force from 2021. ' I can tell you that the coalition had a very serious dispute with the budget procedure. I think most of the negotiations felt that the average pension should remain exempt from income tax. Its cost to the state budget would have been EUR 15 million and an increase of EUR 7 will cost EUR 20 million, so it would have been better in any case. But it is very difficult, if not impossible, to calculate a 12-month pension for 330 pensioners on punch cards, and if we do it backwards, so that in March of the next year they can get their money, then I think there would definitely be more screaming in this Chamber than today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U153	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U154	Thank you. Mr President of the Commission. In your reply, you advised the opposition to think seriously, asking the question, so that it would not slap them back. I don't think I'm gonna get that question back. The rhetoric of your coalition includes very correct thoughts: coherence, harmony, regional equality. How do these values be borne by the regional investments in the draft third reading, where, in addition to investments in many remote areas, relatively large investments in Tallinn, which is known to be one of the wealthiest municipalities in Estonia, are recorded? For example, Mustamäe receives an investment of EUR 36000, which is not typical of other regions. Have these been good decisions, all those in the investment line?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U155	Thank you for a very good question. There is a cross-section of Estonia and the people sitting in the hall, who live and have their homes in different areas of Estonia. The members of the Riigikogu have proposed amendments. This is also the face of this regional investment sheet. But I can say that next year the municipal budget will increase by 27% and over 50 million additional funds have come to municipalities in the last two years, which is literally a regional solution. If you look at the funding for dust-free roads in the state budget, this number is 16 million, for 6 million more. So we have certainly tried to look at this side, but there is no way I can tell any member of the Riigikogu or political group where he has to make his regional investments.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U156	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have a very good question, too. I'll say it in advance. Years ago, one of the former presidents of your political party, IRL, was then the name of your party, said that Estonia must become the spokesperson for the budget balance in the European Union. I remember that, in the previous composition or earlier, your party insisted that the budget balance should be written into the constitution. In the previous composition, two of your party's finance ministers actually delivered; you are currently in a very high position in the management of finances. Yesterday, together with the European Commission's representation, we reviewed the estimates for next year's budget. The budgets of ten Member States are in a better position than Estonia, in surplus and in balance. Estonia has a deficit, shortcomings and deficits everywhere, no matter how we look at the budget for next year. We are together with Latvia at the back of the list, even the Lithuanian budget is in a better position than ours. What's the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U158	Thank you, Aivar! I can't say that's a very good question, because you said it yourself, but it's still a good question. What was said a decade ago is one half. It is certainly important that the state budget is not in a disadvantage that cannot be covered in the coming years. In my opinion, the Estonian state budget is very good. We always look at it the way anyone wants it. Someone's gonna see if there's a minus or a plus. But if we look at the debt burden, we have to cheer, because the next countries are at 20%, we are at 8% next year. The European Union average is 80%. That's one side. There are certainly areas where there has been overspending. I'd love to, Aivar, if you asked me why the government costs so much. Why is the cost of taxpayers' employees so high? Why are there so many people on the taxpayer's payroll? Is there any way to save it? Then I'd agree with you right away that we're looking for these places. Over 100,000 people, do we still have to have so many of them to support the state, or can we do with a smaller number? There are places where budget savings can certainly be made. Social or scientific issues have been asked about the hall today. I think that's where you'll find the money. It's our joint job. We are in the same Commission, we need to work harder to find places where savings can be made and, if necessary, to support those areas that are in red today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U159	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U160	Thank you very much. Good waitress! You had a very interesting interpretation of the science agreement. You stressed that this was signed by the political party presidents. However, I would point out that they signed this scientific agreement on behalf of their party, not on their own behalf. After all, these same parties later formed a government. Two thirds of today's government has supported the objectives of the science treaty. Surely you understand and recognise that if R &amp; D is financed to a lesser extent, it will limit our economic growth in the future. Do you agree, then, that non-funding of R &amp; D at the agreed level means that we will have to accept slower economic development and lower growth in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U161	Thank you. Maybe I should, yeah, apologize to you. Maybe I didn't make myself very clear. Really, everyone but the chairman of one party signed it. You've been in politics for a long time, you know the signature is the right thing, especially if it's the chairman's signature. The goal of reaching 1% is also part of today's coalition agreement. But although 11.8 billion seems to be a very large sum, for every entrepreneur in Estonia this would be a very good amount (some banks might say that there could be more), you know that many areas need to be financed for this money. I always ask, in this case, whether or not we ask Liina if she would still be willing to reduce the money in the areas for which she has sincerely been fighting in this house for just over eight years. Decisions must always be made, and it is always very difficult to take away from someone. But this withdrawal agreement should be made in this room. You can share the money you have. It is very easy to say why this amount has not been increased or why this second amount has not been increased. In my opinion, the biggest mistake in this Chamber has been one thing. We have closed 80% of the state budget and so small is the room for manoeuvre that could be supported in one area or another. This is a place to look at, because perhaps some area has been overpaid or oversupported from the state budget, but there are still very large gaps somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U162	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U163	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I'll continue with my last question. In Question Time, the Prime Minister stressed that the field of mental health is very important and that prevention of school bullying is also very important. But as we can see, when it comes to decisions, it doesn't matter that much anymore. You're saying we should find the means. In my opinion, the Reform Party Group abandoned the roofing money and it was as if the funds had been released, but the coalition simply decided to split it up and allocate more money to its friends. My question is that if it is actually not a priority in your opinion, then perhaps it would be fair if you said no, it is not a priority in this budget. Why fool people by saying that it is a priority, even though it isn't when making decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U164	Thank you, Liina! I'm gonna start by saying that you know very well that social matters are on my mind, just like you, you're just better at fighting. But now I'm gonna have to apologize a little bit! I'm gonna have to pick on you. Your party should have taken that money and put it in the area you know best. I'm telling you, it was one of the options. I am not saying that this should be done, but I honestly thought that you would choose what is important (I do not know what number was discussed for you in the negotiations) to take advantage of this money. One of the options would have been this. (L.Kersna speaks from place.) No, you asked yourself why we didn't use the rooftop money, why it couldn't have been solved from the rooftop money. I was just answering your own question. But clearly these are the areas that should be fought for. We will meet with all the ministries in the debate on the budget. Perhaps the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the sectoral committees should hold a single meeting in the spring and discuss what are the joys and concerns and what should be the cost-benefits in certain areas. Maybe that's where the mistake came from. Since the state budget has reached this hall, there have been no major improvements. We have been able to correct certain figures this time, and I think it is quite much thanks to the Income Tax and Excise Act, but I believe that this may be one of the places where committees can do something to make sure that, if we discuss the 2021 budget, these concerns are either solved or they say yes, we do not have the resources for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U165	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Waitress! I also hope to ask a very good question. You asked why there were no proposals in the hall and said that the members of the Riigikogu had gone to the tractor box to make these proposals. Proposals have come, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs has all rejected them. My point is that. The Question Time said that 125 million could be separated from the state budget so that the state would receive dividends in the future. Why does the state still allocate money from the state budget to the fuel production business, which should be profitable, but not raise the salaries of teachers and exempt pensioners from income tax? On the one hand, there is money that can be put into the fuel business, but on the other hand, there is no money to fulfil the state's own obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U167	Thank you, Annely! Let's start from the beginning. I did not say that the proposals of the members of the Riigikogu did not come, but I stressed that proposals could come from sectoral committees to support the proposals of the members of the Riigikogu. When it comes to entrepreneurship, you're an entrepreneur. I liked a meeting yesterday with entrepreneurs who spoke about culture and said that entrepreneurs could support culture more. The answer here is simple: 90% of the state budget money comes from business, only 10% is from everything else. It is the same thing that if oil shale is practically unable to produce electricity in Estonia, so that it can be sold on the market, alternatives must be found. One alternative is to make a new oil plant, and the other is to make a refinery next to it. These are objectives so that future generations can live in Estonia and use their electricity. Estonia is the only country in Europe that can produce enough electricity to satisfy its needs and also sell electricity. But now we know the subject of CO2, we know that the cost price has risen so high that in most cases it is not possible to put more wood or something else in the open market to sell electricity. It is very important for the Estonian economy and security that we can produce our own electricity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U168	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U169	Thank you. Good Aivar! In June, the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed one of the approaches to roofing money under your leadership. From the news on the National Broadcasting Portal, which summarises this approach, it can be read that, in general, the political groups considered it necessary to move forward with this issue and confirmed that it would be returned in the autumn. You have also been quoted in this news: 'I certainly agree that the Riigikogu should not be the place where small sums are or should not be distributed into operating grants. If anything, it's only about investments. " Those are your words. Now I'm asking you for judgment. How do you assess your influence as Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu? Firstly, I do not remember that the general topic of roofing money has been discussed here in the autumn, and secondly, I see a lot of small sums and very many operating grants among roofing money. Why don't you evaluate your work?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U170	The assessment is very bad. The answer is simple. If the majority of the members of the Riigikogu wish to continue in such a way that regional investments can be made, this is the decision of the majority. If some don't want to, there's no way to change it. We have democracy in the hall. If that's what most people think, the system will continue to function as it is today. If the majority have the opinion that the system needs to be changed, it will certainly be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U171	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U172	Thank you. Good waitress! You have been in the Riigikogu longer than I have, but I am aware that in previous years certain rules have been in place for the sharing of so-called 'roof money': operating grants are not shared and small sums are not distributed. This time, of course, it's particularly lush. The fact that the Riigikogu cannot change the state budget or the Riigikogu cannot give up the distribution of roof money at all during the proceedings, make substantive decisions on matters in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is, in my opinion, wrong. Why are you talking like that in the first place? Why don't we just be honest and serious about why this is how it works?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U173	Thank you. Although I do not think I have stated that nothing must be done in the Commission, that is what you have misunderstood. Perhaps I was simply saying that the political groups have made proposals and it is very difficult to start looking at the group's proposals that where EUR 5 000 or EUR 1 000 has been granted if you say no, it will not go to this NGO, but it will go to another NGO. I tried to express it here. I may have been here longer than one, no more, but in all these formations, roof money has been shared the same way, and in earlier times, there have been even smaller numbers. I remember, eight years ago, there were a lot of thousands of euros, then the euro had just come and it seemed like very big money. This system, at least as long as I've been in the Riigikogu, has been like this. Surely every member of the Riigikogu wants to support good NGOs or people in sports, culture, health care or social areas in his/her region, and this system has developed as it has. There was a time when the amount was considerably higher than what is being distributed today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U174	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! A regional investment usually means that the investment goes out of Tallinn and Harjumaa, but if you look at this distribution, it cannot be said that investments outside the golden circle would be several times larger. Didn't you ever discuss that if real regional investments are made, there must be more of them in those regions where it is really needed? Although, in itself, this principle of sharing money in this way is absurd, especially when such cases occur that a potential recipient of funds has only been created, I do not know, one second before the financing decision. It's embarrassing, you gotta admit, you gotta get rid of things like that, and there's a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U176	Thank you. I can tell you that's the thing that's gotten rid of. If you're looking at this distribution today, there's no such line there, as far as I know. I hope I'm not wrong, but at least I should be. But if you ask about the regional side, I can say at least one thing. When we talked about 2 + 2 roads and so-called investments or PPP projects, it was written very clearly that it was not necessary to build from Tallinn towards Tartu, but to build from Tartu towards Tallinn, from Pärnu to Tallinn and from Narva to Tallinn. Fast and secure connections have a very clear regional dimension. At least one example, I can tell you right now, is that this side is being monitored, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U177	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U178	Thank you for the opportunity to ask a second question, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. I admit I didn't feel bad at all when I listened to your answer. I did not feel touched, and I think my colleagues in our group did too. For the last three years, unfortunately, we have not had the opportunity to be in government; the SKAIS has been developed by other people and proved its incompetence by this. People's wisdom also says, "Don't close the old well until the new one is built. " I understand that, even if it had been technically burdensome, but if it had been a will, it would certainly have been possible to continue with the same system and provide pensioners with an average pension free of income tax. But I don't like the real reason either. Of course, every coalition has the right to make its own choices, but you also indicated that, very suspiciously, these two sums fell together. One was the possible income tax that the state would have lost, and the other was the money for extraordinary retirement. Which is the truth: technical inadequacy or a different political preference?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U179	Thank you. First of all, the average pension exemption would have been a quarter cheaper. One is in the order of 15 million and the other 20 million. It was certainly a desire to exempt the average pension from income tax. If you ask about the system, it was so far easy, because 500 euros were exempt from income tax for both the working person and the pensioner in the case of an average pension, everyone had an equal tax exemption of 500 euros. In the following year, the average pension will be more than EUR 500 and the problem came from that, according to the Minister for Social Affairs, no change to the programme could be made. For SKIAIS2, a special project manager has been appointed to the Social Insurance Board so that this system will work on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U180	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U181	Thank you. However, regardless of the situation with IT, the actual decision was political. It was to show that there was an extraordinary pension increase and then to get that money back with income tax. That was a financial consideration. Don't lie! Similarly, it is not worth lying about roofing money. This system has been tried to lose for years, I have been the leader of it, and if it has not succeeded, it has been tried at least to make it better. Right now, it's only gotten dirtier. It's not nice to refer to that all the time in the past and that it's somehow so established. It's just not true. I offer you the opportunity to apologise to your colleagues working in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for the fact that the last amendments to the state budget were voted through in such a way that the people who were half a minute late could not participate in it and do not even know what these debates were. You moved this item to the second place to take advantage of the fact that the members of the opposition met within a few minutes. Apologize for that and explain it a little bit!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U182	Thank you. I'm sorry, Jürgen Ligi, you're late for the committee hearing! The committee meeting started at 1:15 on your proposal, or at least on the opposition's proposal. The Protocol was not amended. The agenda's on the table, you didn't protest. [[A voice from the hall.]] Tuesday's agenda was on the table, the first item was the state budget. I don't know if you looked at it or didn't look at it. On Tuesday, you had the agenda on the table, which included this point, which was discussed as the first item on the Tuesday day of this week, and the next item was the state budget. Yeah, I'm sorry, but there weren't any decisions that would have been problematic. The same story was with one vote, that was the last proposal where regional investments were included. In the introduction, I read out all the proposals on the state budget. If you're late, Jürgen Ligi, admit it. I don't know why you're late. Your own proposal was to move forward, it was not my proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U183	Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U184	Good waitress! I understand you're not an expert in education and science, but since you're the principal judge of the bill, I'm still gonna ask you for the details. Of course, teacher growth should now be one of the main priorities. In several previous years, the minimum wage for teachers rose at a rate of EUR 100 per year. The media reported an increase of 65 euros next year. But it's not quite an adequate number either. Teachers' wage allocation has, we know, been made up of a minimum wage plus 20%, which allows schools to create differentiation in teachers' salaries at a particular school. For example, last year the minimum rate was 1250 euros, but the teacher's average salary was 1500 euros. Next year, this differentiation share will no longer be 20%, but 17%. Thus, the minimum rate is increasing, it is true, as has been announced, at EUR 65, but with decreasing differentiation, the total increase is EUR 40. Is this a box-to-box story?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U185	Thank you for a very good question. Surely you have also asked this question in your committee to the Minister for Education, who may have given you an exhaustive answer. Such proposals exist here; the Committee on Culture has not made any other proposals to the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U186	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U187	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The fact that the Social Insurance Board employs a project manager who deals with the SKIAS2 is certainly a great thing. I'm just reminding you that while Margus Tsahkna worked as a minister, there was a deputy chancellor who dealt with it, but despite that, there are big problems. But be that as it may. My question is, instead, that, as you pointed out, the Commission added a number of proposals itself and that, after some of the use of roofing money was decided by the Commission, it was supplemented. Can you say any of the proposals that concern the social sector, that is about the carers, or is it something else you added in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U188	I must admit that there were no such proposals in this area. As far as social matters are concerned, you also asked about pension issues last time. I can tell from the stick that a particular person doesn't change anything. You asked me to send you a precise calculation when it came to pension issues and harmonisation in Estonian conditions. But it affects the same way and the other way around, all these changes in income tax affect different people, different groups of people. But directly on welfare and on this side, it can be said that there are certainly some 500 areas covered by these amendments, and your party also had the opportunity to make proposals. According to this, as the proposals have come, they are also in here. I know that there were problems with the 20 amendments, they found a solution by lunch yesterday, whether the recipient, the sector, the subject or the ministry were changed, so that both sides would be satisfied. However, there are indeed no very large social improvements between second and third readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U189	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U190	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, I will continue to ask about resource efficiency. We know that business organisations sent proposals to members of the Riigikogu during the budgetary procedure to put back 39 million euros to increase resource efficiency in companies. In their letter, they wrote that, in principle, 22 million would be sufficient to do the work already planned in the sense that resource efficiency audits had been carried out, which were supported in the same way, where companies had put their own money and where the grant money had gone. I also proposed this at second reading; this coalition was not supported. On behalf of the political group, we proposed a new proposal and proposed 5 million so that at least something could be given to businesses and could be opened up to the third round of requests, and that at least those projects that have already received support and businesses' own money, when the audit was carried out, would have the opportunity to compete and some investments would be made. Unfortunately, this proposal for the allocation of 5 million was also not supported by the Commission, despite the fact that the roofing money that was mentioned here, 4.3 million, is being disbanded again. My question is, why didn't they find cover for that 5 million? It's not that much money.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U191	Thank you for a good question. There is no extra cover found for a lot of things. Account has been taken of what today's state budget allows. But I can just mention to you that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is preparing for the creation of an innovation agency's competence for EAS in order to better advise and manage national innovation policies. The innovation agency should be able to bring together the needs of companies and the supply and competence of R &amp; D. Next year, EUR 3.7 million will be planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U192	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U193	Thank you very much. You also imagine, of course, that if you enter into a contract with someone by which the other party assumes certain obligations within a certain time limit and then fails to comply with that obligation by that date and tells you that his aim is to do so sometime in the future, that answer is obviously not acceptable to you. You see, the purpose of this agreement was precisely that this 1% will be locked up before the elections and then, when the budget is drawn up, it will be taken into account. Of course, if necessary, in other areas, we must either accept less growth or also make cuts in order to achieve this objective, just as we have done in defence spending, for example. Excuse me, I have a little political question: what has happened to the Fatherland? In the old days, Fatherland was the party that dared to make unpopular decisions, difficult decisions. Why not anymore?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U194	Thank you. I hope you've read the deal. How is the agreement formulated? The goal is to reach 1%. I'm reading the coalition agreement, it says the goal is to reach 1%. I'm looking at the state budget next year, there's a rise. Not 25%, as it should be, or 28%, but a 3-4% increase. But there are just so many resources. You know perfectly well that if you have a certain amount of money, you can do exactly how much money you have. You have to make choices. During the elections, you were in the other party, and you made promises. These promises have not been fulfilled today. How did you make those promises? I read your ballot paper, I know what your promises were. Why are they unfulfilled? You could ask me the exact same question. These are choices and opportunities. It is possible to decide on the basis of this amount of money and in this place. Finally, 101 members of the Riigikogu decide. It is in no way possible for a minority to do this, for this decision to always be made by the majority, and for these agreements to be made. If you're asking me if the science money should be bigger, then yes, it should be bigger. Research clearly means innovation in the economy and business. Is today's research money going to be distributed to the infinite if we've been hoping for the right amount? Well, there are certainly opportunities to share this money better in order to boost and support the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U195	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U196	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, I listened to your not very good answers to very good questions. You complained that the budget was pre-established by law at about 80%, that there was nothing to divide or re-distribute with the state budget. You also complained that bureaucracy is already huge and that no one in the Riigikogu makes proposals to save money. However, it is precisely in the coalition agreement that we support a comprehensive reduction in bureaucracy and administrative burdens. In addition, there is a point that we are conducting a broad-based revision of the state budget. Is there any connection between the budget and the coalition agreement? In the course of the year, have you been able to do anything to ensure that the Riigikogu has more room for decision-making?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U197	Thank you. We should start by saying it's not been a year. The workwork of the Riigikogu has been in this Chamber for six months. All these processes have started. By February next year, there will be a huge amount of data on the basis of which decisions can be taken in this Chamber. If anyone thinks I'm gonna be working tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, it's not gonna be like that. The new coalition has made decisions, an investigation has been launched on how one, two or three things can be resolved, how state reform can be carried forward, how costs can be reduced. This process has begun. There are no answers to all the questions today, but certainly by the time the RES discussions are held next year, i.e. next spring there will be much more data on which to make decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U198	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U199	Thank you. Mr. Chef! People who are busy often have to do several things and may be late for the Commission. It's not nice to blame it. I can assure you that the first item on the Commission's disbanded agenda was the Eesti Pank Act, not the budget. So don't blame us for being a minute late, I guess four minutes. It was not nice to vote on the budget at that time. You could still apologize for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U200	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U201	My question concerns your fiscal credo. What your governments have done and what you are saying does not fit in with what economists say. In very good times, as has been the case in the times of the Ratta governments, people have lived both nominally and structurally in the minus, and in the end, each time they fall into even greater disadvantages than was planned. How do you justify that? What is this economics argument?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U202	I can't explain it. I can't explain it. I can't explain it. But I'll make you a suggestion. After all, as Chairman of the Special Committee on National Budget Control, you will always be able to make a written proposal to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to discuss in order to improve it. I must admit, I have not seen such a proposal. I'm so sorry, but I haven't been able to get a letter like this from the e.M.S. I'm sorry if I'm wrong right now, but I don't remember. [[J. Nearly speaking from the position.]] No, don't do two things... One thing is the amendment tabled by the Reform Party, but I am talking about the committee where you are chairman. After all, this committee has been put into practice to support and help the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to advise on how to improve the state budget procedure. So we are completely sincerely looking forward to these proposals from your committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U203	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U204	I wanted to ask you about the teachers' salary, but the last answer to Jürgen Ligi made me change the question. Throughout this debate, we have heard a great deal that we should discuss more, we should make more proposals, Jürgen Ligi should have made some kind of proposal, which he probably made in the wrong form or something. These are the words here that we should discuss and make proposals, but, as far as I know, the opposition made quite a number of proposals on the state budget. How many proposals did the coalition take into account what the opposition did? If the answer is none, then I ask why. We're talking about something else in the hall so we should make suggestions. Were these all such bad proposals, even though our questions, on the contrary, are quite good in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U205	Thank you. The opposition proposals have been estimated at EUR 1.3 million in the budget. There's a connection to the Income Tax Act. Today, a little while ago, we confirmed the adoption of this law. These were all amendments made between the first and second readings, most of which were opposition proposals. Yes, no proposals from the Reform Party were supported between second and third readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U206	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U207	Thank you. The state budget is relatively general and opaque in form, and many things have been described either in the explanatory memorandum or as promises made from the same remote control. My interest is that as of now, just as EUR 2 million is foreseen for the design of the Haapsalu railway, this budget does not give us any certainty. Can you give me the assurance that during the year, the government will not make changes within this relatively non-transparent budget and that this money will be spent for other purposes? In fact, I would like to make sure that it is not spent for other purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U208	Thank you, Heiki, for a good question. I can answer you first of all that it's on the line of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. If the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications wants to change this line, it will have to come here in the autumn with this proposal, which is an amendment to the 2020 budget. Today's decision is clearly that the design will be announced next year, but it is a ministry area. All the more so neither the Riigikogu nor any committee can directly influence it; they can control it. But I dare say today that the deal is next year's design procurement. I have to admit, of course, that it depends, if I remember correctly now, on the fact that the dispute is over the earth body, that there is no contract. If this dispute cannot be resolved to the end and there are differences, then it must be said that nothing can be done in private land without permission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U209	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U210	Thank you. Good chairman of the committee! You are, of course, mistaken if you say that every object must come before the Riigikogu. No, you don't. Unfortunately, we also have negative precedents for both Rail Baltic and Tallinn-Tartu highway. In the case of the eastern border, too, things have been postponed without coming to the Riigikogu. So, in theory, the Minister himself has the opportunity to relocate objects. But now to my question. This is driven by the way you responded to Jürgen Ligi. You said that it would only be possible to balance the budget if Jürgen Ligi came and made proposals. You are right about that, of course, because Jürgen Ligi has made these proposals, and I, too, have seen these proposals in many roles, both as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and as Prime Minister. And indeed, a surprise! The Estonian budget was in balance until 2016. My question is what Jürgen actually asked and you didn't answer. In times of economic growth, when you are reducing investment in a number of strategic areas, whether or not in road construction, but also in many other areas, how do you justify it? Why is this in deficit in times of budget growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U211	Thank you. To the question of why the budget has gone down at some point, I can't answer you. At that point, I did not really curate this area by the Riigikogu. With regard to the budget for next year, I can say that the budget is on the way to balance, by 0.5%, as the agreement is today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U212	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U213	Thank you. My question is also motivated by how you responded to Jürgen Ligi, who was four minutes late for the committee meeting. But Maris Lauri was only two minutes late, and in that time the amendments to the state budget, which were 13 years old, had been voted through. Having also been chairman of the committee and knowing how much time it will take for a vote on a matter to be discussed in substance, I would ask you perhaps to shed light on how it was possible that you voted through 13 amendments in two minutes before the opposition members arrived. Perhaps you will show the speed at which you were able to explain the content of these proposals and to count the votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U214	Thank you, Kaja, for a good question. I recommend that we take up the materials that are currently displayed to all members of the Riigikogu behind it. No 13 points were voted. The points on the state budget were already voted through on Monday. On the table there was the same list that wasn't finished on Monday at the Ministry of Finance, and that was what was added to it, plus some clarification was there. I can tell you what it was: the explanation of the explanatory memorandum was four football fields. So all in all, there were two suggestions for improvement if my memory wasn't fooled. However, the three proposals were, the third was a subsidy of EUR 200000 for the oilfish. Yeah, I don't know if there were two, three or four proposals. If you want to know, this meeting's on tape. The meeting started not until 1:15 p.m. If there is a consensual vote, it will take exactly enough time for the matter to be put to the vote and asked whether there is consensus or not. If no questions are asked, it will take time, I think, less than a minute, for example, if you put the question to the vote now, whether or not there is consensus. The debate and voting on the state budget took place on Monday. On Tuesday, there was only a clarification, there was no change in any of the principles. The amounts had already been agreed and voted with all the Members of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U215	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U216	Thank you. Good waitress! For my part, I would also like to express that this was not, in my view, quite a good practice, which took place yesterday, that you moved the order of the items to the agenda and made this vote quickly. I think that we could have done what was on the agenda so that we would have discussed the banking law as the first item and, after that, we would have discussed the proposals for amending the budget. I think that would have been correct. But I want to ask you in this key how good you think the government and the Committee on Monetary Affairs have a budget implementation on the expenditure side. What do you think could be done better in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U217	About the first part of the question: I must shake the ashes on my head, and no one else can be shaken. Since the papers had to be signed yesterday at five o'clock, the Commission officials had a request that we discuss this first. But I don't want to blame anyone else, only the chairman of the committee can take responsibility for it, not anyone else. I can tell you that when Jürgen Ligi and I met with the people of the National Audit Office on Monday evening, we also agreed there that the National Audit Office would come to our aid at the beginning of the new year so that the structure of the state budget would become such that we could look at the data there. Another thing that I think is very important: that all ministries have the same starting point as the Ministry's share of the state budget. After all, we saw that the budget lines of the ministries were very different, some were within a few decades or a few hundred euros, and some were within a million. This is where we are trying together to achieve this in the next state budget. When the RES debate starts, we have a request for how we want to see the state budget for 2021. But I also want to stress here that we are all to blame. Over the years, we have voted here on the state budget law, which is less and less readable every time, and we have less and less opportunity to do something here. This is the place that we can change together.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U218	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U219	Thank you. I listened to your last answer. Of course, I don't have much faith in anything getting better. You made comments this summer that in the fall, we're gonna move on to regulating the roof money, but not a muffin has happened. It doesn't seem like the promise that you're now going to change the budget is going to happen very much. But I'm gonna ask you a whole different question. I ask you, in principle, if you would support, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the possibility of voting on amendments tabled by the opposition at third reading as well. It is not possible to vote on them today unless they are supported by the government and the Commission. Secondly, if you were to follow your own words, would it make sense not to put the list of roofing money to a vote so that it is possible to make these votes one by one?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U220	Thank you. On the first side, I reply that all the amendments that are most likely to be voted on in this Chamber, i.e. at least two votes in committee, can be made between the first reading and the second reading. In answer to the other side of the question, if we were to vote now on almost 500 amendments, if the opposition wanted to work, it would have to take more or less a few weeks into account. I don't need anything else. I think it is better if we can agree on these rules of the game, in what way, in which number and in what size or area this roofing money can be. Maybe that's when this line gets shorter and more precise. But let us be honest, the most transparent part of the state budget today is the so-called regional investment. They have been very clearly described to whom, for what and where. In addition, it is also known which party has proposed this. If you look at the rest of the budget, there's only a few places where you can see the same kind of clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U221	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U222	Honor the President of the sitting! Good waitress! While Fatherland was still in the previous government with the social democrats, in our common government the minimum wage for teachers rose very strongly and caught up for a moment with the average wage of the country. Now that the Fatherland is in government with the EKRE and the Centre Party, it seems that the pay of teachers is no longer a priority. Indeed, teachers' wages are slightly rising, but they are clearly and significantly behind the average wage in the country. As many Estonian teachers are apparently watching our session, I ask this question: when will today's government once again raise the minimum wage of teachers to equal the average of the state or even raise the minimum wage to 120% of the average wage of the state? When will you keep your promises to the teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U223	Thank you. Another good question. But as you understand, the economy in Estonia is quite prosperous and the average wage is growing quite well. Whenever you compare someone's salary to the average salary, you could discuss what the average salary was three years ago and how much teachers' salary is today. All of us want to raise teachers' wages, teachers are the salt of the earth, no one will argue with that. Due to today's budgetary opportunities, this increase is exactly as high as it is in the budget: EUR 1540 should be the average salary for teachers next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U224	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U225	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, You already answered that question that I was going to ask. The budget has become increasingly complex over time, increasingly difficult to understand. I hope that you will all support the initiative initiated by my colleague, Peeter Ernits, that there would also be a support group in the Riigikogu to increase the transparency of the budget. But my question is different. You have now defended the government's budget in this remote area at third reading, and you defended it at second reading, but there were times when the Minister was still defending the budget from the beginning to the end. Do you think this practice wouldn't be better? You, like, mediate the government's positions, but the minister still says the government's position, it's directly his responsibility. Is this procedure reasonable? Or would it not be wise, however, to change the procedure again so that the budget can be protected until the end of the term by the remote minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U226	Thank you for a good question. We are currently looking at the suggestions for improvement, one has come from the government and five have come from the Riigikogu Commission. Today, the Minister could defend a proposal for an amendment which sets out the details of the amounts within the ministries. The rest of the proposals have come from here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U227	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U228	Thank you! Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You have probably had a discussion in either the Commission or the coalition that, since the teachers' salary is such an embarrassing story this time, that the minimum will be increased by 5.5%, which hopefully in any way will give the average wage more or less in the same step, but that the minimum wage for teachers would be at least 120% compared to the national average, we will not get any closer. It is done in such a way that the money is provided at 2.5% and the minimum is increased by 5.5%, which means that 20% of it, which is intended for class managers' fees and all other bonuses that could be paid to teachers, will remain only 17%. Have you discussed whether this money should now come at the expense of teachers who have some kind of extra charges or whether the local government should take this money from other local government activities? Which way would it go to meet this minimum?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U229	Another very good question and very difficult to answer. It would be easy to say that this was not discussed in the Commission. That would be fair. It wasn't really discussed. On the other hand, it is certainly possible to ask the Minister in this field on Mondays and Wednesdays how he has seen or thought about this budget within his own ministry. Certainly, the third party is that the whole educational package should be looked at. Nobody in this hall is arguing that there are problems with teachers of certain subjects. We would like teachers' salaries to be higher than those currently foreseen in the state budget, and it is certainly clear that all the municipalities who hold schools and wish to have good teachers there will support education from their budgets. If you look at the municipal budgets, we can see that education is certainly 50% or more of the budget, in most cases. It is certainly the case that all good authorities support the pay of teachers as we wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U230	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U231	Thank you. Dear waitress, Your reply to Mr Kallas gave me the impression that you are trying to lower one of Estonia's most important documents every year, the state budget, somehow and simply to reduce it to the level of amendments. It is not a question of amendments; it is a question of national policies or policies for at least one year, often much longer. If we push, let's say, responding from ministerial level to committee chairmanship, that doesn't show the greatest courage of the members of the government. You have repeatedly pointed out here that this is a matter for this or another minister and that it is not your competence to answer. How do you feel about the proposal, for example, by amending the law in such a way that, in the course of adopting the budget, all ministers are defending their own budget and we will have unambiguous, competent and precise answers in all areas? Indeed, the minimum level would be to go only to the Minister of Finance, but in fact all ministers could go.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U232	Thank you. Let's start from the beginning. The state budget is brought to the Riigikogu by the government and protected by the Minister. The next two readings will no longer discuss the budget that was brought here, these questions should be able to be asked and the answers should be received at first reading. All committees may invite ministers in any field to present their budget. The Finance Committee invites all ministers. The sectoral committees, I believe, call at least on the Minister in his field to discuss this. There's a chance. I would like to see ministers discussing and answering questions in their area between first and third readings. I don't mind. But the current debate on the budget law in the Riigikogu is, after all, very clear that the first reading is what it is when the budget comes from the government: it is introducing the government budget or the law and answering questions. The next readings are when the Riigikogu proposes amendments. Yes, in the debate on many drafts, the proposals for improvement come from the government instead. But if you offer that there is no moment in this board of the Commission and all the questions should be answered by the Minister, I ask how the Minister can answer the questions that have come to the debate in the committee. Then there would be no need for the Commission, the amendments could go directly to the Minister, and then the Minister would make these decisions. It's a two-sided thing, depending on how you look at it. There are things where it is certainly right that the Minister should answer on behalf of the government. But the debates that are taking place in the Commission are, in fact, what we should be talking about in the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U233	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U234	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! At the end of today's sitting, a parliamentary group will be set up here to make the state budget more understandable. I've seen you put your name on it, too, which I'm assuming you don't understand the state budget right now. I was gonna ask you what it's like for hours to protect a document you don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U235	Thank you. Surely I understand this budget much better than you do. You haven't, I think, even opened it. You're probably just asking questions, just like you always have to ask questions when you're in opposition. It's not that someone's making a support team. I should also, of course, ask Peter himself, as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, whether he really does not get all the answers from there and how he means that he can get better of these answers from the support group. I'm the one who signed up to make sure nothing gets out of hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U236	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no more questions for you, and we can go to the negotiations. On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U237	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the third reading of the most important draft of the Riigikogu session, the draft state budget law for next year. Budget expenditure and investment amounts to EUR 11.6 billion and revenue to EUR 11.8 billion. Costs will increase by 2.1% compared to last year, or 236 million, and revenues will increase by 6.9%, or 760 million euros, compared to the 2019 budget. I have also said in the past that both I and the Centre Party Group are pleased about how the government led by Jüri Ratas will focus on the people of Estonia in the state budget next year. This is reflected on every page of the budget, regardless of what it is. You can always criticize, but the fact is that the state budget has its limits and not all expectations can be realised immediately. But in my opinion, we are moving in the right direction, towards a fairer and more coherent country. I think that every person in Estonia would like to say a welfare state about Estonia. Moreover, everyone would like to feel that Estonia is a welfare state. One feature of the welfare state is a strong social policy, which has always been a priority for the government of Jüri Ratas. Let me put out some specific numbers. The parental benefit budget will increase by 14% next year, as well as the new year's family income tax exemption from the third child will increase by 100 euros per month, which is good news for families with children and leaves them with more money. It is good to say that in 2018, third children were born into families considerably more. I believe that the courage of parents has benefited not only from overall economic growth but also from a policy of state support. In January 2020, the disability allowance paid by the State will be multiple. Support for children with disabilities will be EUR 22.3 million in the budget next year, or more than 40% more than this year. It has to be said that the proportion of children with disabilities has increased in our society over the last few years, and this is already affecting nearly 13,000 children. Everyone in this hall probably agrees that the livelihood of the elderly living in Estonia needs to be improved. Almost half of them live in relative poverty, and there is no way we can ignore it. In April, the average old-age pension will rise by 45 euros. This is the largest pension increase of 12 years, and it gives the elderly an increase of 540 euros a year, i.e. basically the 13th pension. After ten years, this first increase in the basic pension is for nearly 330000 pensioners across Estonia. There will also be an increase in healthcare funding from next year. The Health Insurance Fund is channelling over 180 million euros to compensate for medicines, which is nearly 14 million more than this year. As a completely new service, the Health Insurance Fund will pay residents a fee of nearly EUR 20 million from the new year. In total, the budget of the Health Insurance Fund will increase by EUR 144 million in 2020. Focusing additional resources on healthcare will certainly help to reduce the number of treatment queues and improve the availability, continuity and quality of treatment services. In a situation where the average life expectancy in Estonia is increasing and the proportion of people of dignified age increases, I consider it very important to pay attention to people who work in the social and health field. It is a pleasure that next year will rise... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U238	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U239	... social rehabilitation, special care and replacement care professionals' salaries averaged 2.5%. The salary of health professionals will also continue to increase. In order to ensure a wage agreement, the State will contribute EUR 50 million. For our joy, the good news in other areas is not hidden by social developments. We can still raise the wages of rescuers, policemen, cultural workers and teachers within our powers and capabilities. The minimum wage for teachers will rise to 1315 euros. The results of the PISA tests show that Estonian basic school students are at the absolute peak of Europe with their knowledge, in all three areas studied: mathematics, reading and science. You can only be proud of that. Of course, we should contribute more to the export of knowledge. Every euro invested in education produces multiple profits. Of course, we could talk about the draft state budget for 2020 for a very long time today. I would, however, like to draw your attention to the important fact that the state budget for 2020 is a well-considered document that has really been based on all the needs of our Estonian people. Our group strongly supports the adoption of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U240	Thank you. As the representative of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U241	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U242	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U243	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Nothing much happened in the process of proceeding with this budget. He is exactly as he was at the beginning: visionless and without a view to the future. All those things that are important for the future have been sidelined. I am dealing with some aspects and processes of the budgetary procedure today. First of all, the processing of the budget in the Riigikogu. It has been said repeatedly here that the budget is not quite readable and understandable, that it is very difficult to understand. Yeah, that's right. But if you want to, you can chew through a complicated thing. If the chairman of the committee said that we had a debate in the committee, I regret to say that this was not exactly the case. There was no debate. Normally, the opposition asked, and the coalition was silent when the members of the coalition were even in the room. In a lot of cases, there was no one at all, from time to time it happened that there was only one desk filled. Yes, however, the chairman of the committee was predominantly present. All the amendments and changes to the budget can be boldly said that the Riigikogu has reduced itself to dealing with small things. I am in the fifth year of the Riigikogu and I dare say that I have not seen such passive participation in the debate on the state budget, namely in favour of the coalition. It was absolutely unbelievable. During the second reading, all amendments were simply voted down by default, without any discussion of the substance. Whether it's worth taking into consideration or not, it wasn't. We were given all sorts of reasons. Here, the chairman of the committee explained why one thing or another is not good, but as we have understood, if something is related to the social sphere and there is a need to reject it, then it must be said in the sky2 and then it cannot. But that won't be an obstacle to breaking the pension pillar. It is very sad that so little money was found for R &amp; D. Growth, yes, there is, but there is no ambition. Teachers' pay is just as important, but all educational questions are not important. We have already heard that this coalition's budget will be taxed for the first time on the average pension, in part. This is, in part, the result of the confused tax scheme made by the previous government, but certainly also the result of the choices, objectives and priorities of the government. And the latter certainly do not look to the future, but are very short-lived. As the Minister of Finance has repeatedly said: one or two years, then everything is speculation. Technical procedure. It is good to hear that the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs realised that yesterday's process in the committee was not nice, it was unfair and rude. One minute to vote on the subject, move the agenda around! Today, there are such things as phones, and you could have asked if anything had happened. All the more so since the Commission meeting was at a slightly unusual time. Yes, I have to admit that I was the first to arrive at the budget debate later, perhaps half a minute later. I was wrong that it took a little more time than I thought to come from the back of the Riigikogu to the Commission's premises. So what's the point of this budget? The budget is really the most important document, but if it is not understood which way they want to go, then frankly, there is a situation in which the Riigikogu has nothing to do. You can look at it that way. But in fact, this is where the Riigikogu should take matters into its own hands in such a situation. If the government doesn't bother, doesn't bother or want, then it's Riigikogu's turn. We have been told many times here today that we should make proposals and make proposals. We make suggestions, but they are not discussed. They are not discussed at all in the Commission, not once was there a substantive debate. On the other hand, no member of the coalition asked that it was such a good proposal that it would suddenly do so, suddenly looking for another way to see if you would accept a smaller amount. We never had such a discussion, not one, not one before the second reading, not after the second reading. Not once! It's just, the source of the cover isn't right! But the same source of cover was suitable for many other things, including this, I would say, a rather irresponsible sharing of roofing money. If we really want to be statesmen and stateswomen, then we should have the courage to say that no, I do not share money in an opaque way, and the lack of transparency comes from that no one understands how one or the other recipient is being plucked out, but I share the money because there is a big idea. For the same 4.2 million, there could have been room and meaning for other, important things, even if the amounts recorded in the amendments were different, larger. But there was never a discussion like this, and there was no will. Given that the budget is what it is and that the coalition does not really want to make things better, as we have seen here, the Reform Party Group considers that this draft cannot be supported in any way. That's a bad bill. It doesn't look to the future, it has absolutely no vision. This is not the budget of this Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U244	Thank you. Indrek Saar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U245	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Two and a half months ago, I also stood before you to talk about the state budget for 2020. I said that at the time, this is a budget of disappointments that reveals the government's disrepute, a budget that has no plan whatsoever. I very much agree with my colleague who has just spoken about this. Time has ticked, there is a final vote ahead, but from the perspective of our society and especially of Estonia's future, the budget is as sad as it was in early autumn. The fact that the long-standing budgetary process did not even bother to seek common ground with opposition parties or society at large remains on the conscience of today's government and the head of government. So much for a coherent society and inclusion. However, at the last moment, the government has found an additional EUR 5 million in direct payments for agriculture, half of the Socialist amendment. But the fact remains: the government has failed the farmers. The spring promise to pay the top-up in full, or EUR 15.3 million, is still outstanding in the new year. A good third of this amount is missing. Farmers are serious farmers who don't make fun of themselves. I guess they must have been really bitter when they put their voices in the tractors last night and drove to protest at Toompea. And where is the new regional policy promised by the EKRE with its broad mouth, which drives life and creates jobs in the country? No, no, no, no, no, It is clear that rapid solutions and measurable results may not be achieved in the fight against peripheralisation, but this budget will not take a step forward towards promoting rural areas. No new initiatives. On the contrary, compared to this year, the coalition made major cuts in the amount of tens of millions of euros on a number of regional programmes in progress, planned and proven. However, some of the major deficits in the budget relate to pensions and promises made to older people. Jüri Ratas's second government is the first government to tax the average old-age pension. Congratulations! The tax must start to pay the pension for that part of the pension, which is more than EUR 500. All previous governments, even in the most economically difficult times, have had much more respect for pensioners. In addition to the annual pension increase, the tax exemption limit has always been shifted where necessary. It should be recalled that both the Centre Party and the EKRE promised to keep the average pension free of income tax before the elections, and the Centre Party, in turn, promised to raise the tax-free income of old-age pensioners to as much as EUR 750 per month. And, of course, the electoral promise of the Centre Party No 1: In 2020, the average pension must rise by EUR 100, because 'only an extraordinary increase in pensions will guarantee an average old-age pension of EUR 700 by 2023'. A few months later, the result is known to everyone. The government was only able to make an extraordinary pension increase of EUR 7. Embarrassing and unfair. It is just as embarrassing and unfair that the government has not moved a single thing so that the budget can help even a little to alleviate the burning problem of informal care, let alone solve it. The recent proposal by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige on the introduction of care insurance through a new wage tax seems rather to be an attempt to make smokescreens for whatever suspension it is currently working on, whether it is a pharmacy reform or something else. Good ambassadors! From the new budget, we are faced with the chronic calamities of the Central Party, the EKRE and the Isamaa coalition, which has been in power for nearly eight months. Today's government is living in the rhythm of almost two years, or at best, when local elections are held, and does not really care about the future. Instead of strategic, forward-looking decisions, it is the populist things that are being dealt with, which are, of course, expected to benefit the party at the moment. Already in spring, the coalition abandoned the science treaty... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U246	I'll give you extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U247	... which meant that R &amp; D funding would rise to 1% of GDP in the coming years. The bar was also cut off for teachers' wages. The salary increase is coming, but unlike in previous years, we are not approaching the goal that the teacher's minimum wage must be 120% of the average wage in Estonia. The state also drives this low wage increase, as the Chairman of the Monetary Commission, who has just been on the board, acknowledged the hand of the local government's wallet. In order for Estonia to become smarter and more successful, it is important to invest today in education and science. It can't be delayed. Otherwise, there is no way to hope that we will be able to rejoice in the future with Europe's most diligent students and wiser teachers. However, if you want to do so, you can also find some so-called new good things that make you happy. But I must also remind my good colleague, Kersti Sarapuu, who praised it as the great act of today's government, has legalised and decided the previous Riigikogu, which ensured that on 1 January the situation in families with children with disabilities would improve. In fact, after 13 years, the benefit for a disabled child will increase. The allowance for children with moderate and severe disabilities is doubled and the allowance for children with severe disabilities is threefold higher. This, I repeat, thanks, first and foremost, to the fact that the previous composition of the Riigikogu legalised the increase in disability benefits for children under the leadership of Helmen Küt, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee at the time. In conclusion, however, the budget for the coming year will make history in at least two different ways. Firstly, this is the first budget to tax the average pension. Secondly, it is a budget that, in a completely unprecedented way, ignores any longer view of the future. In this situation, the Social Democrats cannot, of course, support a budget that does not fulfil the important promises made to the people of Estonia and previous agreements, does not sufficiently support the weaker members of society and does not set long-term goals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U248	Thank you. No more requests to participate in the negotiations have been revealed. Ow, still. Helir-Valdor Seeder, Fatherland faction, please! Eight minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U249	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been working on quite a few budgets. All of these have taken place on a routine basis in more or less the same scenario: the coalition reads out its winnings from a series of rows, which have increased, how support is given to one area or another, and the opposition presents its compulsory criticism, which is relatively similar from year to year and with minor differences. I am not going to repeat all these winnings here, which also relate to this, the current budget law for next year, which has been read out at first and second reading, but I assure you that all the Ministers of the Fatherland, without exception, have done very well in their work, as well as the coalition, the government and the coalition partners have done very well. But I would actually like to come to the aid of the opposition here, because the government is good, strong and working when the opposition is strong. And I sense that there is no strong opposition in this Chamber. That is why I am going across the front line and speaking for the opposition today. First of all, I would like to highlight a number of problems and concerns, which are our common concerns, with a view to the future, in view of the longer and wider process of the state budget procedure, and those issues that we also have in relation to the common conditions set out in Brussels. First of all, we are glad that Estonia has a low loan burden. Indeed, the Estonian state has a very low loan burden if we compare ourselves with the other Member States of the European Union. And the Fatherland has always supported it. And don't take my next question as the position of the Fatherland Party, but let's consider it a reality that needs to be considered together. However, in a world where we live in such low interest rates, where there is sometimes negative interest rates, which we did not imagine five or ten years ago, which is a reality today, where some countries are offered, that if you take a loan, we pay on it, and the European Central Bank prints on the money and thus gives rise to inflation, only those with a higher loan burden will benefit from low interest rates policies and lose those with a lower loan burden. You don't have to learn economics to understand it. But I'm just going to ask the rhetorical question: how do we proceed, what is a reasonable economic approach? Secondly, the budgetary balance and the output gap. In a situation where Estonia is a country with a standard of living below the average standard of living in the European Union, and where we are undercapitalised compared to wealthier and richer countries, and where our economic growth is faster than the average in the European Union, potential economic growth is taken into account according to a methodology agreed on the basis of a methodology. Those Member States whose economic growth exceeds economic growth on the basis of their so-called theoretically calculated methodology cannot actually use their own growth to invest and so-called increase their wealth and align their living standards with the standards of living of wealthier countries. Is this sensible regulation at EU level? We remember very well the case of Greece and many other problems in countries with budgets, be it Italy or many others. But are there examples of such rules, which are not a sensible solution for everyone, in a situation where we are a country with a low level of credit, a state with a debt level? It's worth thinking about. These are questions that we must first discuss at home and then negotiate with Brussels. The keys to their resolution are not located here, in Estonia, in the Ministry of Finance. Now I would like to touch on a few more things concerning the national budgetary procedure. I am not only talking about the transparency of the state budget, which I fully agree with here, and I, too, have been predictably associated with this working group on improving the transparency of the state budget or with the support group, but I would like to warn you about the initiative that the Ministry of Finance has taken in previous years, during previous governments, and which still comes through the door and window. Specifically, perhaps we are going to adopt a four-year budget. By doing so, we take away the opportunity of the Riigikogu to participate in current budgetary processes as much as today, we also take away the government. Governments are changing, and when we start adopting budgets with a four-year cycle, it is the case that some ministers and governments are coming, others are going, we are on a train running, and we are deciding on permanent officials. By doing so, we will reduce the decision-making opportunities of politicians throughout this budgetary process. And I don't think that makes any sense. A further, performance- and sector-specific budget. We have been criticised for having 11 ministries and each ministry is like a silo tower defending its own interests. We are going to target-based and cross-sectoral budgeting, we are setting three or four, maximum five sectoral objectives, and in this way we are trying to draw up a budget across ministries. That would also be a very wrong step. It is precisely this competence, the substantive competence, that lies within the ministries of the sector. The dispute between these ministries must reveal this and the balance between different interests, be it education, culture, defence or investment. If we make a three or four sector-specific target budget, that means that this thick end goes to one super ministry, the Ministry of Finance, where ministers are increasingly negotiating with the head of the table. And the Ministry of Finance doesn't have that competence to tell us what the most sensible and effective spending is in the field of education, in the area of government of the Ministry of Rural Affairs or elsewhere. So the solution can still be negotiations between ministries, not an alternative, where the heavy end goes to the officials of the Ministry of Finance. That certainly doesn't make any sense. And last comment, which I think is the biggest problem and also concerns transparency. This is the process of adopting the state budget strategy and the state budget, which has long been melted together. In spring, especially after the elections, the new government will have a month to adopt a strategic document, which in itself has a four-year view of the country's budgetary strategy. There are many ends in the air, and in the autumn, when the cabinet gathers, it is said that we have already made many decisions in the spring of the RES on the basis of initial information. In fact, neither the drafting of the national budget strategy nor the drafting of the state budget are fully responsible. This whole process falls between two important procedures under the law. It doesn't make sense. There must be clarity here. And I am not talking about the fact that this whole package also coincides with the tax change and the tax package. This time is abnormally short. That is why the Board of the Riigikogu must, unfortunately, constantly deal with the fact that the materials are not available to the members of the Riigikogu in time, because the Committee on Monetary Affairs cannot handle this point. But this is not at all a complaint to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but an inherent problem arising from the law. I think it's in everyone's best interest that we handle this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U250	Thank you. Siim Pohlak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U251	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat my words here many times earlier that it is a good budget, just as good as it was possible to do in today's circumstances. Thank you to the Ministry of Finance, Minister Martin Helme and other members of the government and the Committee on Monetary Affairs for transporting the budget process and for all those who made their proposals on the budget. Thank you for the work you've done. From the good things about the budget, I would like to mention the tax truce. As the government coalition has agreed, there will be no major tax increases in this budget. The Estonian Conservative People's Party wants Estonia to be able to feed itself. Our farmers were able to find more €5 million in support money. Together with the euro payments, more than €360 million will go to agriculture and rural areas, and we will work together to make sure that these amounts are even higher in the future. I believe you all agree with me. Rural areas will receive support for the repair of gravel roads, and regional investments will make a significant contribution to civil society. In some places, solutions are also found to problems and bottlenecks for which local governments have not had enough resources. Fortunately, however, municipalities are also receiving additional funding from this budget. We should stand together in this Chamber to ensure that local governments are real governments. In addition, the money is directed significantly towards health care. Good things and important things might remain to be listed. The time I've been given here would certainly not be enough. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I would just like to call once again on everyone in this Chamber to support this budget. I also recommend joining the budget support group initiative after the sitting. During the last republic, there were many good things to learn from. See how the budget is drawn: here really the lines and numbers run, with two sentences there is an explanation, it is easy to read and it is possible to understand things quickly. So I call for support for the initiative that Peter proposed. I think that Mrs Ernits will lend or show this to others in 1939, if anyone has a wish. Thanks again! I call for support for this budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U252	Thank you. We're done negotiating. The representatives of all the political groups have spoken. Mr Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would like to make a very specific remark which he has not made before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U253	I would like to make one clarification. The text has corrected the technical error concerning the costs and investments of the Supreme Court. The amendment has the correct numbers, but the error occurred because the data was entered into the system with the wrong character. The repaired sheet is behind us with all the documents. If anyone's taken it from there, they'll see it. I just had to specify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U254	Thank you. Let us be clear, we are not going to discuss this separately. The correction has been taken into account. We are going to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment, tabled by the Reform Party Group, has been rejected by the lead committee. The proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with our Rules of Procedure Act. A second amendment has been tabled by the Reform Party Group, the commission has rejected it and the proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Rules of Procedure Act. The following amendment, Amendment 3, has been tabled by the Reform Party Group, has been rejected by the lead committee and this proposal is not to be voted on either. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been rejected by the Steering Committee and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 5, also made by the Reform Party Group, has been rejected by the Steering Committee, in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Rules of Procedure Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 6, tabled by the Group of the Reform Party, the Steering Committee has decided not to take account of this proposal, and this proposal is not to be voted on in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 7, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. Nobody wants a vote. Amendment 8, too, is... Would you gentlemen please take a seat? And ladies and gentlemen, so that we can discuss the amendments calmly. So, Amendment 8, which has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. No political group is calling for a vote. Amendment 9, amendment by the Estonian Reform Party, the lead committee has rejected this. The proposal shall not be subject to the vote. Amendment 10 is now coming, which has been made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. No political group is calling for a vote on this. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. There is no vote. Amendment 12, also tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the Commission has taken full account of this. No political group is calling for a vote on this either. Amendment 13 has also come from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the commission has taken full account of it. No political group is calling for a vote on this amendment either. Therefore, we have examined the amendments to the State Budget Act 2020 and we can proceed to the final vote on the draft State Budget Act. Now, please, attention and extreme concentration. I am voting on the draft State Budget Act 2020 initiated by the Government of the Republic 82. Please take a stand and vote. The vote is closed. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, against 44. The state budget for 2020 has been adopted as a law. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U255	Dear Riigikogu! We have a few more points on today's agenda, we calm down our emotions and we will discuss the continuation of the second reading of draft law 74 on the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Citizens' Initiative, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as rapporteur. But I ask all members of the Riigikogu to calm down now! The excitement is great, I understand, but before Mr. Puustusmaa starts talking, I ask you to either sit down or continue your conversation somewhere else. Okay. Please, Mr. Waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U256	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still in this Chamber, and also those behind the TVs! I am pleased to continue reading 74 second reading of the draft law implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/788 of the Council of the European Parliament on the European Citizens' Initiative initiated by the Government of the Republic. First of all, before I get to the Commission's work, I would like to emphasise what this is about, so that it is known for sure. It is an implementing act, an implementing act of a regulation directly applicable to the European Union, where there are three main points that we have had in our passion to a lesser or greater extent. One of them is that it is a citizens' initiative. This is linked to a situation where the citizens of the European Union are launching some kind of inquiry and want the draft law to be implemented across the European Union, the European Commission, to discuss something. With regard to the regulation describing this situation, there are a number of points which are necessary for implementation. One of them is the age of the people who can join such a citizens' initiative. This implementing act also addresses these contact points, which are the institutions that we have in the country and are working on this initiative. The implementing act that we are discussing concerned, on the one hand, the proposal that the age of those who join the citizens' initiative should be 16 instead of 18 years of age, and the assistance provided to the organiser groups, the verification and verification of the statement of support being carried out by the Ministry of the Interior and the Data Protection Inspectorate respectively. In short, so much history that an analogous regulation has already been involved in the European Union. Under Article 11 (4) of the Treaty on European Union, an institution of a citizens' initiative has been incorporated into the law of the European Union and was adopted on 16 February 2011 as a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. It was implemented for a few years. However, in 2015, it was found that there are a number of shortcomings and they are linked to the fact that the implementation of this initiative should be less burdensome and should also come closer to the citizens. Then the adoption of the new regulation was initiated, and this regulation was slightly adjusted. What we're looking at now is the act. As I said, these are important issues: either 16 years of age or 18 years of age, and whether the verification and other technical implementation of statements of support could be in the hands of the Data Protection Inspectorate and the Ministry of the Interior. Regarding the verification of statements of support and assistive functions, we have no changes compared to the previous one, nor have we proposed that there should be changes. However, it is important, as the Minister said in the first reading of this same implementing act, that it is up to us to decide and take a political decision on whether we want to grant these political rights to younger people, i.e. to move the age limit down from the current 18-year-old to the 16-year-old. Yes, as I said, this is a political decision. I will now go to what took place at the Commission meeting on 5 December 2019. This session was chaired by me, Paul Puustusmaa. Kalle Grünthal, Marek Jürgenson, Siim Kiisler, Andrei Korobeinik Oudekki Loone, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur and Vilja Toomast were also present. At the meeting of the Commission, Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, was also present. As it was a continuation of the second reading, we had some purely editorial questions on the one hand, concerning the wording or technical side of the same implementing act, and where there was no change in the legal or the so-called effects of the norm. We also had a consensus on these, and all these changes were unanimously confirmed. The main conversation or argument was, or how to say, passions about whether it would still be reasonable to bring this rate from the age of 18 to the age of 16, which are the decisions that might touch on this subject, and how important it is. I bring here some quotations from the Commission's debate to reflect this debate. My proposal was that the Commission should consider amending § 1 so that the minimum age for signing a citizens' initiative and statements of support would be 18 years and not 16 years, as stated in the draft proposal. I noted that participation in politics requires maturity and readiness. This is not my personal assessment, but it is quite questionable whether the degree of maturity is sufficient to enter such political processes at the age of 16. I have also pointed out that there are quite few political rights given to minors in the world today, I have highlighted the moment when this has changed, and that currently there are about 200 countries in the world that have been granted the right to political decision on minors, including Estonia. There are four countries in Europe. Do we have to be Pope's pope now? As an argument, I added an explanation of what has come from the European Union. In particular, the European Union's own explanation of point 7 of the preamble to the same implementing act states that it is appropriate to set the minimum age required to support the initiative, which should correspond to the voting age set for the election of the European Parliament. Such a suggestion has come from above and, as we know, we have it every 18 years, which in this sense sounded like an argument. This was, in principle, supported by Kalle Grünthal in our committee, who also said that, in his opinion, we are seeing an increasing increase in the age limits, and therefore it is unreasonable to set the age limit for signing the citizens' initiative' statement of support below the age of 18. As an example, the Riigikogu problem committee discusses the idea of raising the age limit for alcohol consumption and purchase. During this debate, this age dispute went on to a number of elements, I asked the advisor of the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, who was present at the meeting of the Commission, for an explanation of what it is that the Government of the Republic has proposed to bring this threshold down if the European Union itself has recommended. He pointed out that we already have the right to grant a grant signature to collective redress for a person of 16 years of age or more, in addition to the right to vote in municipal elections for a 16-year-old youth. We have taken such a course and, therefore, it is also justified to take this direction in this situation. This proposal was put to the vote and the Commission as a whole did not support the proposal to keep the age limit at 18 years. The following issues were therefore decided by consensus: to propose that this draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 December, to propose that the second reading be closed and to propose that the draft be sent to third reading by 16 December if the second reading is completed today, i.e. on 11 December. These procedural decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U257	Thank you, dear waitress. You can ask questions. The desire to ask questions has not been revealed. It is now possible to negotiate on this issue; everyone has the right to speak. One request has been made. Lauri Western Forest from the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U258	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, As we remember, with this draft, we discussed and proposed, on behalf of the Commission, that the second reading be stopped and that we move on. It was then brought back to the table in the Commission and proposed that the second reading be interrupted. This proposal was also supported by the Chamber. Then this issue came back to the Commission. At the time, we were wondering what this was about, where the problem was. As is now known, no proposals were received from any political group, a substantive proposal which would have provided the basis for stopping the second reading. But these doubts, which were then, were also confirmed by the Commission. Still, the EKRE Group or, obviously, the members of the EKRE have no confidence in Estonian youth, against the 16- to 17-year-olds. I would like to reiterate that this law is an initiative of the European Union to increase the opportunities for citizens of the European Union to participate in European Union decision-making, i.e. to participate in citizens' initiatives at European level and thereby improve their lives. There is, by the way, a minimum of one million signatures to be collected for the initiative. Perhaps this is not an election, but an opportunity for young people to speak out in order for the European Union to take greater account of their wishes. I do not understand at all why I am opposed to this, and especially to the EKRE, which is constantly trying to argue that our voice in the European Union is not being taken into account, but now it is trying to set real obstacles for itself to be that way. As you have just heard from Mr Puustusmaa's report, he has put to the vote in committee a proposal not to give 16-year-olds the opportunity to be involved, and both members of the EKRE also supported this idea. In addition, Kalle Grünthal, in the Commission, expressed the opinion that, in his opinion, public protests by many minors were rather a fun undertaking, as they might then have the opportunity to leave school. Firstly, I would like to clarify once again that this draft does not give or take the opportunity to protest and absent from school, but allows it to sign the citizens' initiative. However, when it comes to young people's maturity, protestism and the desire to intervene in matters of society, I think that the best example of Estonian history has come from the very same 16-year-olds who once stormed the war on freedom. Looking back today, it could be said that it was one of the most mature and better decisions at the time. I trust young people, the Social Democrats trust young people, and we call on everyone, especially the honourable members of the EKRE, to give young people the opportunity to influence the European Union. Give them the opportunity to interfere with Brussels's work, do not leave them as spectators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U259	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U260	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! I may have a misguided youth worker speaking in me. But I wasn't a youth worker, just working with young people and giving them advice. It was civil society. One of the nicest moments would be if we could really get young people involved right away. One such organization, created from the beginning, was the Football Hospital. Our membership grew quite well, but we could not register quite many because it turned out that our young people, if they are not 18 years old, are not fully liable, they are not judgmental to participate in the work of a non-profit organisation. Let's give the cats a pai, get the dogs a bone, give fat to the tits, all these NPOs can't welcome these young people, because maybe a 17.5.year-old youth isn't ripe yet, takes the cat a bone, takes the dog to the tits, and just puts the fat on his own. At the same time, this young person is already competent to speak up at European level. Yes, we still have to go to Europe first, and then we have to come back to Nuustaku to bring wisdom and knowledge. I would have loved it if we had discussed what we can offer our young people here in Estonia, showing that our country really cares. Europe can say that we will give this voting right to 11-year-olds, and we will find our own buts there. He wears his neck, he goes to the bathroom alone, and he already has several accounts in Instagram and Facebook, just like the big one. But what are we really doing here in Estonia for these young people? Does the shoe squeeze a little bit? I'm glad that when I went to get my documents, the people of the PBA said that if you have a chance, Kruusimäe, please tell the Ministry of the Interior in the Riigikogu that 15-year-old can pick up the passport himself. He doesn't have to waste his parents' hours and spend them. Maybe it's possible to put it on the p.P.A. page. It was possible! This means that we actually trust these young people, in law we have done so. So you don't know if this 16 years, now that you're looking at this new thing, there's no condition that we may be disparaging to some extent. A good workmate, Riina Sikkut, told us that we could still treat a young person as a young person from the age of 14, before he is a client of a child health clinic, after which he is a client of a youth clinic. I come back to the European initiative that 16 years is the most average age. I would not like to make other comparisons, but I would like to ask to what extent we have this competence and the will to actually consider our young people to be the most intelligent in the world. The PISA test has shown that our young people are already wearing their necks pretty seriously. We could trust young people to participate in partnerships, because the law obviously does not prohibit it yet; association is a kind of fun thing, but when we talk about non-profit activities, we could involve young people there too. It's nice that young people are called volunteers everywhere, but young people are already prying their noses, saying they're like free labour. You should act like Tom Sawyer! You have to do such a cool thing that young people want to be part of it. But right now, I'm in my first third of life, 50 years old already, deciding if young people should be in Europe when they're 16. Anytime you want to talk to me! After all, we have a free word, especially the members of the Riigikogu on this board. So I think that young people are pretty judgmental before this document, but they could actually be in our local affairs, even if they were to participate in the NGO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U261	Thank you. No more requests to participate in the negotiations have been revealed. No amendments have been tabled on this draft, which we are currently going to continue with our second reading. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 74 be terminated. Consequently, according to our procedures, the second reading has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U262	We will take the next item, No 8, the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of consumer protection law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Mr Mikhail Korb, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U263	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will report to you the events that took place between the first reading and the second reading in connection with the amendment of the consumer protection law. More specifically, the Commission discussed this law twice. At its first meeting on 2 December, the debate was relatively short. It was agreed that this draft will be in the Chamber today, i.e. on 11 December it will be discussed in plenary, but there will be a number of engagement events before this, and the draft will be discussed again in the Commission. The inclusion event took place on 6 December. Participation was quite active, and stakeholders submitted their comments and suggestions. They were discussed with the Ministry, and there was an amendment that had been tabled to you in a consensual manner. This change of wording does not have any meaning in substance, but has a more precise role to play. Perhaps this amendment will actually specify what the founder of the law wants to achieve with this section, or what he wants to do with it. For information, officials have confirmed that another amendment to the Consumer Protection Act is coming, due to an analysis carried out and prepared in the Ministry. This package of amendments must increase the credibility of the activities of the Consumer Protection Board. The draft was discussed in detail. I spoke of the amendment, the Commission unanimously supported it. It was proposed that the second reading be closed, that the third reading be completed when the second reading is completed, on 18 December, and that the draft be put to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U264	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U265	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Having been a member of the Consumer Protection Committee of the City Council of Tallinn years ago, but it was so long ago, I would like to ask whether the Consumer Protection Board treats all consumers equally and all products equally to refresh memory.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U266	I am sure that the Consumer Protection Board will carry out its work thoroughly. Trust in them is quite high, but of course there are opportunities to improve their work. I think that the format of the Commission, that it is the chairman of the Commission and that two representatives of the Commission, one on the consumer side, and the other on the business side, has justified itself, is working well. Of course, this is the place that the Riigikogu must hold a discussion about how much competence to give to the Consumer Protection Board, because in fact their decision-making is of an indicative nature. It does not become, like, immediately a punishment or a determining decision, i.e. if one or the other decision is made, then you can go to court, challenge it and not execute it. I think this is the debate that needs to be held in this Chamber: what powers the Consumer Protection Board must have. But as far as your question is concerned, it seems to me that both sides are treated equally. They're trying to do this as effectively as possible. I don't have the facts to say anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U267	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U268	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I bring out products for adults, which means that it is not possible to purchase them under the age of 18. Some of them are hidden under the counter, some are on the counter. An electronic cigarette, which is quite complex and electronic, but not more complicated than, for example, a music center or some other device, even a battery drill or something, is hidden under the table. An adult can get acquainted with alcohol at a special store to see what it contains, how strong it is, and he can also find out how much it costs. But in the case of tobacco products, for example, a person just has to go for it. Is there a difference between products intended for adults and products that can be examined by the consumer first, but in some cases the situation must be accepted? Is such a situation then, let us say, with the interests of the consumer in mind, if, for example, he wants to be less harmful to his own health and to be informed about it, justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U269	Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that you are a little misunderstood about the activities and functions of the Consumer Protection Board. What you are talking about, of course, is not quite a fair situation. I agree with you that this situation can be reviewed. However, the Consumer Protection Board deals with situations where consumers are being deceived in one way or another. If, for example, instead of the alcohol you mentioned, e-cigarettes are sold to you, this is definitely a case dealt with by the Consumer Protection Board, but the way the goods are located, regulated and sold does not deal with consumer protection, it is dealt with again by the Riigikogu or, according to regulations, by the government, the ministry or any other body. It is the task of the Consumer Protection Board to deal with situations where consumers are deceived, but of course not to monitor how or how certain types of goods are sold.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U270	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. No further questions for you. It is possible to open negotiations. The negotiations have not revealed a desire. We now have the draft with the amendment. One amendment has been tabled, it has been made by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the commission, the Committee on Economic Affairs itself, has taken full account of it. No one is calling for a vote, so we can conclude that the proposal of the commission to conclude the second reading of draft 103 has been accepted. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U271	We will look at the next item on the agenda, this is the second reading of item 9 of the Act amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors and the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Signe Riisalo, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to serve as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U272	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Committee has discussed draft 99 at two sessions, the main content of which is the creation of a register of drug treatment with personalised data. The Social Affairs Committee held on 3 December also had interest groups. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, representatives of the National Institute for Health Development, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the NGO Lunest participated. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs submitted additional proposals concerning the amendments to paragraphs 12 and 13 of § 591 of the Health Services Organisation Act, relating to the modernisation of the Health Information System and the creation of more flexible options so that both the patient and the health care provider can transmit the treatment document to the information system in a way that is much more comprehensive and flexible and would help to better plan and carry out the treatment. This requires an amendment to the law by 1 March, as the support from EAS has also developed the health information system and the development must take effect according to the conditions from 1 March next year. Now back to the drug treatment register and the creation of a personalised register. We know that we have a case-by-case drug treatment register, not personalised, so we actually don't get information about how many patients there are, and the treatment is also not consistent and individualised. The following questions were asked by the Commission for clarity. Could the drug treatment register not be part of the health information system in order not to create an additional register? The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the registers are deliberately kept separate, firstly to reduce risks, but also because the drug treatment register contains not only health data but also social data about the person's livelihood, but also any other support he may receive from other aid providers. There was a separate and thorough approach to the risk, which is also mentioned in the draft law, and which can be described as follows: people give up treatment because of fear of leaking data from the personalized register, and in particular people who have reason to fear leakage do not come to treatment. Mart Kalvet, a representative of NGO Lunest, also highlighted the risk of this risk becoming realised, who said that, based on his empirical observations, a third of potential patients could withdraw treatment. In particular, he mentioned patients who are socially well managed and who are afraid of damaging their social image. The representatives of both the Institute for Health Development and the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that this fear is not really justified, as people are still not treated anonymously in drug treatment, but all information about their treatment is available on a personal basis in the health information system. The creation of an additional register in this respect does not increase this risk extra. If you think about it, too, that the real fear is not that the register is leaking, but that the person is afraid that the data will spread in his place of residence, where he is staying, where his employer, his family, close to him, his social network, it is clear that the risk of leakage is actually caused primarily by the doctor himself, and that the same risk of leakage is therefore also here and now. Therefore, there is no additional risk of leakage of human health information. The Social Committee also asked whether the epic crises in the health information system would not provide the specialist with sufficient information that such an additional register was needed. In addition, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that healthcare providers are obliged to enter the patient's health data into the health information system and that the patient cannot decide for himself, but the patient continues to have the possibility to close his data and can indeed do so in the health information system. The drug treatment register is different in nature from that of the health information system; it also contains data on a person's social background. There was a special interest in the Commission as to whether the information in the drug treatment register could be used in addition to the psychiatrist's third party, be it the service provider of the unemployment fund or the social worker of the local government. The representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs explained that the right to such access has not been granted to other parties, but is not a legal basis due to pending regulation. So, theoretically, there is a possibility that this regulation can be amended in the future in such a way that information can also be obtained from the drug treatment register in justified cases by third parties. But that is not the case today. Amendments. The first amendment relates to the fact that, in our proceedings, we have reached the point that it makes no sense to enforce the draft as a law from 1 January, which is why the establishment of a drug treatment register has been postponed to 1 February. The Committee on Social Affairs has taken this proposal into account in a consensual manner. Similarly, it was proposed to amend the title of the draft and, after the words 'Narcotic and psychotropic substances and their precursors', to add the words 'and the Health Services Organisation Act'. This is because the Ministry of Social Affairs proposed additional provisions. The Committee on Social Affairs unanimously agreed with this amendment. There were two new sections in the Health Services Organisation Act, one of which allows the patient and the other health care provider to enter specific data into the Health Information System in order to improve the quality of treatment. All the decisions of the Social Committee were consensual. It was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today, 11 December, that the second reading be closed, that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed, and that the draft be put to the final vote by 18 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U273	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U274	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! In the previous composition, we decided that social workers will monitor the problems of NEETs and have access to all sensitive information. Was it precisely because social workers had been given access to sensitive personal data that led to a leak and a new parallel system? Or can you still name the major disadvantages of today's system, why do we need to do and develop such a parallel system?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U275	First of all, the Committee on Social Affairs did not hold a debate from this angle, but I can make a comment. First, information relating to NEETs is collected and stored in STAR, the Social Services and Support Data Register, which is used only by local authorities, and no other parties have access to it, although it is possible to request information about persons from them. YOUNG NEETs and drug treatment - there is no way to put an equal sign between these two things. There may be some overlap, but we're talking about two rather different target groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U276	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U277	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, A very brief question. I heard you say that people are worried about this register and their social status, that it might harm them in any way if they're in that register. Does this register also reflect exactly what kind of drug someone is using, perhaps giving an idea of how many financial opportunities anyone has?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U278	Now I'm not talking as an expert, all right? Indeed, we did not discuss this very specifically in the Commission, but since drug treatment is also drug-based, in addition to other measures, these medicines themselves are likely to indicate what possible psychotropic substance has been involved. So I believe that this information can be read out of there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U279	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U280	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear rapporteur, first of all, thank you very much for the very good reflection that took place in the discussions in the Commission. I'm just asking for an addition, maybe you can confirm it. In the Commission, we also discussed whether this data register could be implemented by 1 February. There was also one reason why it does not say 1 January, but February 1.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U281	Yeah, I'm afraid I can confirm that. We also asked the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Institute for Health Development, and Vahur Hollo confirmed that the drug treatment database will be completed by 1 January next year. We have left a small spare time and are planning enforcement from 1 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U282	Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U283	Thank you! I'd like to explain a little bit about how to get a cure. Is it also directed to coercive care, for example, if a person is a user or is already an abuser? You said it was very good that you, or at least in this data system, have a distinction between what drugs have been used. For example, the police do not have these records. They realize they're a drug addict, but they don't know what kind of drug they've been using. The other part of my question is that. Everywhere it is said that we have two legal drugs, one is nicotine, the other is alcohol. Are they going to be in that register, legally and not legally, or is there a difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U284	There are quite a few things to make a difference. First of all, forced treatment is regulated separately. As we know, neither drug addiction nor coercive treatment can be applied to alcoholism. It is regulated by the law on psychiatric assistance, and the existing draft does not concern it in that sense. As far as the other side of the question is concerned, I'm having a little bit of a mess with it. Maybe you... I understand they're not going under it, but we definitely have this information in the registers, it's in the health information system. If a person has been to a doctor, starting with a family doctor and ending with a specialist who may be a psychiatrist, and has been treated, prescription medications have been prescribed, then all of this will be preserved in the health information system both today and in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U285	No more questions for the waitress. Thanks for the presentation. Now's a chance to negotiate. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U286	Good vice chairman! Good coworkers! Obviously, I am no more competent on this subject, but I am addressing you precisely on the subject of people, say, concerns and problems. A year ago, 20 years ago, many in our society felt like you were like a successful human being when you were using mental drugs. Luckily, those days are over forever, and life goes on. People value healthy lifestyles, and that's great. We heard that all this information was in the system, in the health system, or what it was. I'm a lousy hospital visitor, I don't know anything about these systems. There was a medic looking at me, he said I'd still have everything to do with me. But why do we need another system? We read that from time to time the health records are somewhere near the garbage cans, they're printed out, we know that when things are already clouded, they're basically accessible to everyone, so they're not as safe as, say, perfocards and what's locked in the big safe. People can have any moment in life, people can do stupid things. Grown people are wrong. After all, we live in a space of European Christian values, where error is human and a new opportunity is given to man. A person repents of sin and wants to start a clean slate. I may be wrong, but if before you had the confidence that maybe this register wouldn't leak, then now there's the confidence that maybe this register won't leak, and that register won't leak. Maybe turn your face to people who aren't Syringe-Vellos who always want to get out of this ugly reality into their wonderful colored world. Or was it the other way around? I think it's colored here, and this environment may be bad, but I don't know, I'm not the one who can contribute. But once a man has slipped and wants to come back to society, he has to make some twists. Maybe turn your face once to those citizens who want to keep their own mistakes a secret to some extent. It makes more sense to me than the fact that some I.T. guys are saying that now we're going to do a SKAIS3. I don't understand why any money is going to be given to this SKIAIS2, anyway, we're going to get the result that the SKIAIS3 is much better because the last one is old. That's my point of view. Or should we go straight to the SKAIS4? But do we need to store so much data about a person, or does a person have the possibility of discretion that if he goes to treatment himself, he will not be entered in that register? I think it would be a much bigger motivation to get people to be treated voluntarily than, well, go to therapy, go to therapy, you know, we'll still get that information through the local government, because maybe some specialist at the local government is working on it. This does not give a sense of security now to people who want to make amends for their mistakes by volunteering for rehab. Perhaps it takes a full understanding of the matter, and I am not competent in it, but confidence is more needed for these people. Like you said, maybe it's a shortage. We would do a good thing where there are no shortcomings and where there are no such fears. I think that the Committee on Social Affairs has this competence several times, but as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I believe that these people, too, are right not to make the mistakes of the past public. Everyone has the right to find forgiveness. As they say, forgive us, just as we forgive those who trespass against us. I would turn my face to the person and to his mistakes, not to the need to make another agile solution for how to gather information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U287	Thank you. There are no further requests to speak. We will first examine the amendments. We have two of them, both of them from the lead committee. The first amendment has been proposed by the Committee on Social Affairs and the lead committee takes full account of it, and no one calls for a vote. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Social Affairs, and it has also been fully taken into account, and no political group is calling for a vote. Therefore, the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 99. The second reading is finished.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U288	We are going to the next item on the agenda, that is the tenth and last on that day: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Exchange of Information in Tax Matters initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Aivar Sõerd, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U289	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was discussed by the Committee on Finance on 3 December and 9 December. Anneli Valgma, chief specialist at the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, participated in the meeting on 3 December. In short, let me remind you of the substance of this draft. The draft concerns the exchange of information on schemes affecting taxation, the exchange of financial account information or the identification of the beneficial owner. The proposal is based on the objective of reducing aggressive tax planning and increasing the transparency of national tax systems. The first reading of the draft was completed on 13 November. Neither the political groups of the Riigikogu nor the members of the Riigikogu submitted amendments to the draft by the deadline for submitting amendments, by 27 November. The opinion on the draft was sought from the stakeholders mentioned in the explanatory memorandum and was numerous, but the opinion was received only from the Estonian Banking Association. The opinion of the Estonian Banking Association included a proposal to allow the derogations provided for in the Tax Exchange Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United States of America to apply to smaller accounts, thereby reducing the burden on Estonian financial institutions to identify the accounts of persons associated with the United States of America. The Commission prepared a second reading of the draft at its meeting on 3 December and took procedural decisions. The Commission further discussed the matter at its meeting on 9 December and decided to propose an amendment to the draft concerning the application of the derogation provided for in the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United States of America on the exchange of information. smaller accounts. The commission of directors made one amendment to the draft, which is also included in the list of proposals. Explanations can be found in the list of amendments. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda today, i.e. 11 December; to propose that the second reading be closed; to propose that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is closed; and the third reading be on 18 December; and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. In short, also what we discussed in the Commission on 3 December. The chairman of the committee asked Anneli Valgma, chief specialist of the tax policy department of the Ministry of Finance, to present the letter of the Estonian Banking Association and the draft amendment. Anneli Valgma noted that the proposal in the letter of the Estonian Banking Association would ease the administrative burden on banks and the proposal was in line with the international tax compliance agreement concluded between the Republic of Estonia and the United States of America. Anneli Valgma explained that the exchange of information with the US has revealed a problem with individual Americans in bank accounts that was not anticipated. For example, if you're a child of diplomats and were born in the United States, then you've got US citizenship. Information should also be exchanged about the bank accounts of people who were born in the United States 20 to 30 years ago and have not been there for decades. The information must be accompanied by a tax identification code which may not be available. Until the end of this year, the US has given the so-called "transition" tax identification number, which is a PIN number not to be added to the data exchange. However, the deadline is running out and this option has not been extended. The amendment would make it possible to reduce the number of accounts for which information is exchanged, as $50,000 per account balance is quite a large amount. The speaker asked if $50,000 was the compromise proposed by the Ministry of Finance. The answer was that it did not, in fact, result from an information exchange agreement which allows such an exception, but § 14 of the current Tax Exchange Act does not allow this distinction to be applied. According to the agreement, there is no need to collect and exchange information about small accounts, but the law precludes it. Hence this amendment. That was the whole content of our debate. That concludes my report and I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-11_U290	Any questions for the waitress? I don't see any wishes, so no questions. Thank you, dear waitress. Would anyone like to take part in the negotiations and make a speech in the negotiations? I don't see that wish either. We have one amendment to examine. Although the President has no obligation to read the amendment, I would nevertheless like to read to you one point of the amendment so that you can understand what we will then decide: 'The Reporting Financial Institution of Estonia may apply the specifications set out in paragraphs 1, 2 and 4 of Part II A and in point A of Part IV of Annex I to the FATCA Agreement for the purposes of due diligence. The differences apply in a uniform manner to all financial accounts of the Estonian Reporting Financial Institution. ' I will not read any more amendments. However, this is the amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and fully taken into account by the commission. The commission has also proposed that the second reading of the draft 89 be terminated. So the second reading is finished and today's session is over. Good luck going home! Closure of the sitting at 5.40 p.m.
