ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to welcome you to the last week of this year's sitting. We will begin the Monday session of the 12th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, you have the opportunity to hand over drafts and inquiries. Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Fire Safety Act and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior, when dealing with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U3	I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, the management board decides on its further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. Next thing we know, we're gonna do a sit-in check. 93 members of the Riigikogu are present, no 8. Now we need to clarify and endorse this week's agenda. In particular, the Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed that the 3rd item on the agenda of this working week be removed from the agenda of the Wednesday sitting, namely the second reading of the draft law amending the arms law, the state fee law and the strategic goods law (62 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Katri Raik, would you like to make a statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U4	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to withdraw the draft 107, which is on the agenda of today's sitting and which concerns the formation of the Riigikogu Committee on Inquiry to find out the truth about the claims of the Minister of Interior about the political bias of the prosecutor's office. The reason for our withdrawal is that, apart from the statements made yesterday by the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, which were offensive to Finland, to all women and to people who did easy work in life, there is nothing to investigate in parliamentary scrutiny. Thank you. I'll hand it over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U5	Thank you. I will put the plenary session of the Riigikogu to the approval of the agenda for the 12th working week, together with these two amendments. Please take a stand and vote. There are 91 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U6	Let us go to today's first item, which is the third reading of the Bill 74 on the Implementation of Regulation 2019/788 on the European Citizens' Initiative, initiated by the Government of the Republic. As usual, at third reading, there may be representatives of the political groups in the speech. And if someone hears that they have been mentioned in someone else's speech, they may have up to two minutes to respond. Members of the government and the Chancellor of Justice are also entitled to speak. Then we go to the final vote. I'm opening negotiations. Do the representatives of the political groups want to speak? No call request. Let's go to the final vote. I'm sorry, sir, first the embassy. Can we go to the vote? Thank you. I am voting on the draft law implementing the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Citizens' Initiative initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. It's 80, against 7 comms. Bill 74 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U7	Today's item No 3 No 2 has fallen away. This is an inquiry: an inquiry into the field of education submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Katri Raigi, Riina Sikkuti, Jaak Juske, Helmen Küti, Ivari Padari, Lauri Läänemets, Indrek Saare and Heljo Pikhof on 21 November 2019 (No 13). First, the representative of the heirs receives the floor for up to five minutes. The minister's answer is then up to 15 minutes, and any member of the Riigikogu may submit an oral question to the addressee of the inquiry, the length of which is up to one minute. Interventions can then be made. Please ask the speaker first for the member of the Riigikogu, Katri Raigi!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U8	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the signatories of the inquiry, I will present the questions that we raised in the inquiry. The fact that the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, has brought only one bill before the Committee on Culture during the XIV Riigikogu, led to this discussion. This is about losing comprehensive school exams and introducing a social education exam or test, but the fate of this single draft is currently open and the process of doing so is almost broken. That's why we're asking, first of all, "What's the lesson for you about what happened around basic school finals and the national curriculum of pre-school children's institutions? " We ask the Minister to reject or agree that his actions under these matters have not been sufficient. The second question we are asking the Minister is what the Minister is specifically trying to do to ensure a significant increase in the salaries of higher education staff. We know that a lecturer with a university doctorate's salary is below the average salary of a high school teacher. The third question is, again and again, the financing of R &amp; D and innovation. After all, the goal has been that it will grow to 1% of gross domestic product in three years. With this in mind, how does the Minister intend to transport education and research? The fourth question, a very important issue, concerns the ageing of the Estonian faculty, including the fact that only 10% of teachers are younger than 30 years. What concrete measures is the government planning to address the shortage of teachers, especially science teachers? The fifth question is the increase in teachers' salaries. It has been said several times from this same speech chair that the teachers' minimum wage and the average wage in Estonia do not apply to one leg and that in the 2020 budget there is 17% to pay the minimum wage instead of 20%. Do local governments have to find this money, or do teachers face serious disappointment? And last question: although it is not pre-election, we are still asking about the Russian-speaking school. What about the transition to study in Estonian? Are we limited to teaching the Estonian language in Estonia in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U9	Thank you. Now please, Minister of Education and Science of the remote control, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U10	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear members of the Riigikogu! Have a nice pre-Christmas time. Indeed, today we have the pleasure of discussing a number of educational challenges and topics on the basis of two enquiries. It must be said that the first question is a very interesting combination of several different questions. I guess I'll try to give my answers in 15 minutes, which I've prepared for today in collaboration with specialists. And I'm sure there'll be more questions in the hall. First of all, the first question. Katri Raik already read it. I'm not gonna say it again. One of the most important discussions has certainly been the discussion on the pre-school curriculum. Maybe then I'll say again that we have a pre-school children's law in preparation, or KELS. The drafting of this draft has been going on for a long time. I took office in 2016 and it was said that this had been the case for several years. I think that since about 2014, it has been dealt with by various working groups. Of course, the preparation of the draft always raises a number of questions at the level of the implementing act, i.e. the curriculum. We understand the law doesn't live here on its own. There are now a number of different work versions, not of the curriculum, but of the input that should have been changed there. There is a working version of the curriculum that has been sent out for discussion. There is another document that has been put together in the form of proposals called 200 proposals. This was presented by kindergarten teachers and early childhood education experts. The second working group included professionals in the field. Neither of the working groups offered a comprehensive solution, and we have now reached the point where the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry has started to do this work himself. It shall endeavour to set up a committee with as many experts as possible. There would be representatives of the university, teachers and, of course, all experts. It is necessary to create the most consensual document possible. If you ask for an assessment, the work is not successfully completed in this sense, so that a version of the curriculum that satisfies all parties has not been completed. Changes are also needed in the organisation of work. Experts from the Ministry have agreed that a consensual outcome should be achieved. When we talk about the level of the Riigikogu, you would certainly like to see the curriculum more closely together with the draft law amending the pre-school child institution law. It is clear to all of us that a new early childhood education curriculum is definitely needed. Just making certain changes is unlikely to satisfy us. What's this working process going to be? I wish the Vice-Chancel with heartfelt strength, and I hope that, although there are many opinions on the development of the curriculum, the most consensual document possible will be created, with as many very good experts as possible involved in drawing up this document. The second question brings us to higher education. I have really discussed this subject very much, both with the rectors of the universities of applied sciences and, of course, with the Council of Rectors. At the end of last year, we signed new administrative agreements with universities for the next three years, and then the salaries of the teaching staff were discussed both in talks with trade unions and, of course, in negotiations between universities and the ministry. It can be said that there is still the view that deciding on this is a question of university autonomy. However, universities have assessed how much additional money they need at the minimum. And in 2020 it will be EUR 5 million. The universities said that this is an absolute minimum, and we will ensure that this absolute minimum is guaranteed. If you ask me if this is enough, I, of course, as Minister for Education and Science, would of course need more. The 5% extra money that we agreed with the universities exactly a year ago would be indicatively 8.5 million a year if we were to base today's money. More broadly, it has to be recognised that universities are in very different situations. The pay of teaching staff is also very different. In larger universities, internal resources are slightly different, and the role of research funding in the salaries of teaching staff is also important. On the other hand, resources are smaller, especially at the Academy of Arts and at the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre. There is much less money coming from the management contract that goes to the teachers' salaries, and there is much less internal resources. Are we prepared to enter into some sort of minimum wage agreements? There is no such agreement at the moment, but universities and trade unions are negotiating in their houses. And here's the question about that 1%. I believe that in this Chamber of the Riigikogu we have talked about this on several occasions throughout the budgetary procedure. I declare again that, of course, neither the Riigikogu nor the previous formations have in any way retreated from this 1% objective. Just moving towards it is somewhat slow. If we look at the 2020 budget, we will see that there is EUR 16 million more money there. I am pleased that not only does the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research look face to face at science, but the ministries of the field have also come in. In the Chamber of Riigikogu several times it has been discussed as a very important topic that it is the ministries of industry that look to science, thinking about what is needed in society, what are the expectations of society. And in the state budget, there's a total of 216 million dollars going to science. Is that enough? Of course, significantly more money would be needed in science, but in view of the expectations of the coming years, the amounts that should be added to the country's budget strategy and budgets in order to reach 1% are considerable. And I believe that the members of the Riigikogu know that too. There is also a question about the faculty. I am sorry to reply so briefly, but just these issues are so extensive and the time to respond is limited. I've prepared seven more pages. I'll try to pass them. As regards the ageing of the teaching staff, it can be summarised that the attractiveness, reputation, of course, is important for the teaching profession, but more and more teachers themselves indicate flexible learning opportunities, including flexible training opportunities. I'm gonna get some options here. First, start-up aid. I'm sure all of you, good members of the Riigikogu, know that the basis for starting support has been changed and now it also extends to support specialists and teachers in Tartu, for example. We have made an exception to teacher training. And we have made an exception precisely because those teachers who do not meet today's qualification requirements, as we know, are becoming teachers more and more people with other higher education, and thanks to our cooperation with universities, they will be able to acquire the necessary education alongside part-time work. In the case of integrated Bachelor's and Master's studies, the opportunity is given to study without tuition fees for a period equal to twice the nominal time. These groups are very popular and show that teachers want to learn. There is also a scholarship for teacher training, which is certainly a good signal and an opportunity to show attention to this profession. Now for the teacher's salary. This is something we have discussed several times in this Chamber. This is extremely important, especially from the point of view of succeeding. The popularisation of science is important for young people to go to study, especially in technical disciplines. It is difficult to find young people throughout the LTT field, with few considering the profession of science and technology teacher. This is a broader question of how to get more young people there, so that young people choose this specialty. The minimum rates of pay for teachers have also been discussed before. I repeat here that in the last three years this threshold rose by EUR 100 per year. As far as the average percentage is concerned, I can assure you that teachers do not like playing with these average percentages, because this would mean that the percentage increase would be the highest in the case of the recession. What matters is what they actually get in the form of a minimum wage. And the increase in the minimum wage for three consecutive years was, as I said, 100 euros. During the budget negotiations this year, we did not trade 100 euros, we received 65 euros in total. Of course, there was a desire to continue with the increase of EUR 100, and we must make an effort in this direction when we draw up the 2021 budget and now, in the spring, when discussing the country's budgetary strategy. Now the question about this promised 20%. I didn't quite understand the substance of the question. The questioners said it was like local government money. Perhaps, then, I would remind you that if the other components of the teacher's salary were once lost, I think Mr. Aaviksoo was the Minister of Education, but there may have been Mr. Ligi, I will definitely find out when I ask the questions. But before there was, as you remember, a class manager's fee and other automatic components that added to the teacher's salary. Then those extras disappeared and the money went to the payroll. So in any case, the money allocated to teachers through local authorities in addition to the minimum wage has been part of the teacher's salary from the outset and always. The fact that our reality has changed a little bit and not all teachers have seen a minimum wage plus 20% is also a topic that we should discuss. I can assure you that the trade unions have also paid attention to this issue. Perhaps at times this money has disappeared from the school network, for example, in another place it has been spent for other purposes, but I do not want to confirm that it has been diverted from the local government budget. It's still been a teacher's bonus all along and part of the payroll. Now, as far as paying 17% instead of 20% is concerned, how to proceed, I will definitely leave the local government and specialists to discuss. As we know, every year these things are agreed with the local government. And one issue has been that local authorities in the first place can have greater opportunities to decide for themselves or to participate in this education support. And thanks to your questions, I also received him that negotiations with the Union of Estonian Cities and Municipalities are being conducted and that the working groups of the Ministry of Education and Research already have a pilot project in place to discuss the renewal of the working and salary arrangements. I'm sure we'll be watching it with interest. And now here's the last question about how we have this non-Estonian native language. Sorry that I only have one minute left to reply, but since the next question is on a very similar subject, we will certainly be able to discuss this issue further during this time. But it can be confirmed that non-Estonian children come to every school type and kindergarten very much every year. There are returnees, there are immigrants, there are new immigrants, so we have children with very different home languages. And the sooner we get them support for language learning, especially in kindergarten, the better the results for their future. There's basically no unit like a Russian school anymore. If we look at the proportion of subjects in Estonian, at least according to the specialists of the Ministry of Education and Research, most schools where most of the subjects are in Russian are increasingly using different modules in Estonian. But I'm sorry, that's all I can tell you. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U11	Thank you, good minister. You have questions too. First Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister of Education and Science! I have a very brief question. And specifically, do you think it's fair that a schoolteacher's leave is longer than a kindergarten teacher? And if you think it's fair, please explain. My hometown, Viljandi, has approached you with this concern at the municipal level. Maybe you'll open it up a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U13	Thank you very much for your question. Indeed, I am familiar with Viljandi's address and, of course, I have studied the subject myself and discussed it at the Ministry. If there's a simple question, there's a simple answer. And the simple answer is, yes, it is part of the discussion of the KELS working group, the whole social package related to the teacher subject. If you respond a little further, we have already gone a very long way by actually admitting that our first level of education is early education. Surely a good questioner knows that I personally, as well as the entire ministry and local authorities, are trying to recognise teachers at every step of the way. And whether they are at international level or events within Estonia, we closely observe that the early childhood education teacher, this first teacher, is also marked out. Indeed, we have 96 to 97% of children in kindergarten. The teacher there is the first teacher. And if we don't trust ourselves, the OECD has also highlighted success stories, not only in Estonia but internationally, indicating that the level of school readiness is more even in those countries where there is strong early childhood education. Now the answer to you: no, unequal leave is not fair. A good questioner knows that this subject has been bounced back and forth. Local authorities say that they are currently not prepared to do so. If we ask for advice, it's gonna get stuck in there. I believe that our work plan at the Ministry of Education and Research, our next steps will depend on how this debate goes in society. There is a willingness to come up with the pre-school institution law at the draft level in the first half of 2020 and there should be this wage component and any other options in it. There is, for example, the subject of scholarships and very many other issues where kindergarten teachers still feel that they have not been treated at the same level.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U14	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I mean now that the introduction of this new bill, I mean early childhood education, has taken place under a great deal of secrecy. They've been talking about it for years, but I don't even know what it says. If the requirements for savings and gardens are to be harmonised, which way: is it going to be more of an educational institution in the direction of cheaper, so-called savings or vice versa? And the second question: is it true that the draft law does not intend to establish a minimum set of kindergarten workers? This makes it possible to save a great deal, but at the expense of children, for example, when there is no music teacher.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U16	I understand that concern. First of all, I don't know what to say about this secrecy, I don't go to our website every day. But I assume we have everything up there somewhere. As far as I know, all the target groups are involved. Rather, people who are involved are already very tired because they have been involved for many years. It is true that this working group has really been discussing all this for several years. There are different aspects involved; some of them are substantive. And one of them really is the harmonisation of childcare and kindergarten. As of today, I know that it is not yet final, however, that there is a consensus within the working group that such a simpler and more flexible approach to childcare could be maintained as is currently the case in the law. It's until it's 3 years old, but it's definitely not going to go on. But there is also a more ambitious approach: that it is just a private day-care centre. If it's private care, it's the same as a private day care centre, or if it's a municipal institution, it's that. We're in the middle of a negotiation. We will meet again tomorrow in a very wide circle between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education to discuss implementing acts. As we know, there is municipal care. Rather, it comes from a practical need, not from a desire to save teachers or money. For example, it may be a third floor, or a number of square meters, such reasons may arise. There are now negotiations with the Ministry of Social Affairs on the extent to which some of the technical constraints are possible without compromising the health or well-being of children. Of course, children's health and well-being are at the forefront, and then there will be other questions. And if it is clear that compromises are very difficult to find, then it will rather remain so that different solutions can be allowed until children are three years old. This, however, is not for everyone. In particular, educators say that even before the age of three, there could still be a curriculum of educational activity, which is then teachers. I can't explain the minimum composition of the faculty in detail right now. I'm not a member of the team myself. As far as I know, we've been discussing it in the ministry's management So far, it's sounded like we could go back to the model of two teachers and one help. I have not heard discussions about giving up a music or movement teacher. On the contrary, both are necessary for the well-being and creativity of Estonian children. But to make sure I'm not wrong about anything, I'm saying that this aspect has not been discussed with me. I cannot tell you what the group's discussion on this issue has been like. Maybe you have some information on it, maybe it's in the air. I can ask you a question, but I assure you that in the case of teachers, it is rather a desire to increase the level of ambition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U17	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you about the work version of the early education curriculum that you first published or put on the coordination round. This gave rise to a very strong reaction in society, but you were able to distance yourself from this subject by saying that, despite you introducing this version of the curriculum, you did not really familiarise yourself with this version of the work. I wonder if you've read it for today. And if so, how do you estimate this first version of work?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U19	Thank you. I didn't try to distance myself, of course, the Minister of Education and Science is responsible for his field in every way. This is what we have in the law of the Government of the Republic, and that is the logic of our constitution. But yes, if we look at the time since 1999, there have been a lot of different and interesting versions of the curriculum in Estonia, and there have been disputes about which approach to look at. I brought some pretty interesting documents here. I'm sure you also saw during your studies that we have had an exciting history approach. At the same time, the development of our curriculum, if we look back, for example, to 1996, has been limited to making as few changes as possible. For example, when we look at Finns, we see that they have come up several times with a completely new approach to learning. They're creating a new paradigm through the curriculum. In Estonia, we have not dared to do so, and the debate around the early childhood education curriculum is also likely to show that we have a consensus ahead of us. I am a very hard-working document reader, but my honest answer to you is that, after so many discussions arose around this scheme, I thought I would wait for a more consensual document. As I have already answered here, I am rather committed to drafting draft laws. Time is a valuable resource and it must be acknowledged that I hope that this Riigikogu composition will discuss the set: the Education Act, the Early Childhood Education Act and the Basic Education Act. What will be the name of this third beautiful document is the law of secondary education or the law of middle school, yet you do not know. But you need to see a complex whole. You have referred here and the Committee on Culture has said on several occasions that the laws must be logical and we should keep their coherence in mind. This has been my expectation for more than ten years, and I wish we could get to it. Curriculum as implementing legislation is very, very important. But sometimes more important to me is their sequence, maybe because legally it makes more sense. Setting this frame seems easier to me than taking into account these nuances. But on the issues that have been addressed, I am, of course, familiar. Let's take the same multilingual child. My children are multilingual, too. Of course, Estonian will become dominant at school, but it will challenge you. However, I believe that the curriculum and the education officials support it. After all, our next question is that multilingualism is a challenge. Maybe the word 'problem' has upset you. I must admit that in America, when I met members of the Estonian community, the word 'problem' really upset and I had to say that it was a failed sentence. But because it has been given special attention, it's the right thing to do. This, however, requires separate training from the teacher, and we have so far paid little attention to this in our early childhood education. This is especially true now, where more and more Russian-speaking children go to the Estonian kindergarten or rather become bilingual. There is now a need to pay special attention to this in training. It was the right subject in the curriculum, but its wording is not. If we look at the aspects around which debates are taking place, I believe that it is possible to find the point that satisfies all parties. It is only necessary to find a wording that is more understandable in the case of newer approaches to learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U20	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U21	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Two working versions of the basic school final exams and the new kindergarten curriculum have been born in many respects without sufficient involvement of stakeholders. This has caused much disappointment and resentment, but above all, time has been wasted in vain. I would like to ask you, as Minister, what is the lesson you have learned. How can we avoid these mistakes in the future? And since the third working group has now been made to prepare the kindergarten curriculum, I also ask how their work is progressing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U22	First of all, of course, as a great advocate of lifelong learning, I believe that adult development and learning are extremely important. Of course, I study every day and all the time. The lessons learned are understandable, but we must at any moment understand who has the views. Now, this final exam thing. I think that, at one point or another, in terms of external evaluation, it will need to be put on the table more widely anyway, it will be a draft or some other document. The Riigikogu has said that this wording does not fit, but the subject of external evaluation as a constant process is essential. Well, I guess it's going to have to be discussed in another key here, one way or another. And I understand that the Committee on Culture wants to discuss this from a certain point of view. They have meetings with Innove and other experts. The youth representatives continue to believe that something should be done in a situation where they take two very serious examinations, two months apart, which duplicate each other. That doesn't make much sense. Of course, educational activities could be meaningful. Whether it will be a harmonised upper secondary school exam or otherwise organised, it can also be discussed here in the Riigikogu. But yes, I assure you, a good questioner, of course I'm learning all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U23	Thank you. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U24	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! In recent weeks there have been difficult news of the removal of school principals in the middle of the academic year in Viimsi, Tõstamaa and Lüganuse parish in Kiviõli. Indeed, there can be no assessment of this if not all the details are known with great caution. But what have you done specifically to get Heidi Uustalu, Director of Kiviõli School, reinstated? If the headmaster did make mistakes, then in the public opinion, the community believes that the decision of the municipal authorities is over the shaft: the removal, the lay-off was certainly not appropriate. What have you done specifically to resolve this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U25	Thank you. As you said in the introduction to the question, the case of Kiviõli is not exceptional. As an expert, of course, and a very active member of the School Leaders Association, who has participated in various mentoring programmes, Heidi Uustalu is more visible. Indeed, it is a person who knows his field very well and a person who is active on many subjects. So much for the background. But, yes, such unexpected terminations of school leaders' employment contracts, especially in recent weeks, maybe there are five lines of work, as I counted the other day. But maybe these are just cases that have exceeded the news threshold. So, what can I say? It is very much right to present this question here in the Riigikogu. Remember, in the summer we took the first summary of the question, then it came on the basis of what happened in Kanep, whether the state should have a right or an obligation to intervene in such a case, either in terms of ministry supervision or in some way more generally under the law. At the moment, a number of discussions on the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act have basically taken a stand-up approach to Kiviõli as well as to the fact that it is a matter of local government. It is established practice over the years to intervene only if necessary. Of course, we have this procedure and procedures have also begun. This means that the Ministry of Education and Research examines the circumstances during the monitoring process, makes further inquiries. It usually has such a moral effect, trying to give advice. All these activities take place in the Ministry of Education and Research, but, as we saw in July, the public opinion was not satisfied with this. They said we should take another step after all. I believe this is a very fundamental matter. I know that the Reform Party has several times initiated the issue of the employment contracts of school leaders or some sort of accreditation. It is, of course, a fundamental decision whether we are creating a system under which, on the one hand, school leaders have been given some time to prove their competence and, on the other hand, there are limits at intermediate stages to the basis on which a contract of employment may be terminated in addition to, of course, the Labour Dispute Committee. It is clear that these aspects are very different, but from the point of view of school peace and peace of work, very much will change when the head of school is replaced in the middle of the academic year. Of course, there are also lecturers who do a very good job and they keep the school working, but such a change is still disturbing. I mean, there's a problem with the whole school body in stone oil now. So all in all, the procedural levers available to the Ministry of Education and Science under the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act have been applied. However, if there is ambition and a desire to take another step, it should be reviewed in legislative terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U26	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U27	Thanks! Good minister! Maybe this question is a little bit beyond the subject of this question, but it certainly concerns the school network. As you said, the problem is that we do not know if we will soon have teachers or if we do not have them. Local authorities are often told to pull together their school network and then free teachers. But private schools are the same area. Training permits are granted by the Ministry. And I have recently observed a tendency that, for example, in a private school, the third was opened with the permission of the Ministry of Schools with one student. How's the private school network? According to the private school law, we're running two separate school networks, don't we?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U28	Thank you, very good question! A good questioner knows that the previous government made a fundamental decision here and adopted an amendment to the private school law, which approved a very flexible attitude towards private schools. It must be said that it is extremely exceptional if the Ministry of Education and Research refuses to grant a training permit. As you know, this year, if I am not mistaken, it has only been refused four or five times and resentment has been very great in social media in particular. The reason why it has been refused has been quite clear. Usually there have been no qualified teachers. As we know, the legislative framework proposed requires that there must be enough teachers to enable the school to complete the curriculum. We're not going to tell the numbers that maybe all people are going to have to be in further training or otherwise educating themselves, but there's got to be a chance that the school will be able to complete the curriculum. Another reason has been that there has been a very creative approach to the national curriculum framework. But yes, it has been clear from the social media that the resentment of parents, especially active mothers, has been great even with their individual refusals. But yes, the Ministry of Education and Research will grant a training permit when the rules are in place. A substantive assessment should be carried out by the local government according to the Private School Act. The usual answers of local government are twofold: some say it's very good that there are private schools, others say they don't like it at all, but do what you want. That's the approach. So first of all, to commend private schools, private education has certainly brought more diversity. Very many new initiatives have emerged. If we look at the private schools we know best, we can certainly be proud of them. They have allowed more involvement, and they have brought new approaches to learning. I assure you that when we talk about basic education, it is not a secret draft. This is a so-called draft, which is currently purely at the level of the working group. There will be a broader debate around it once we have heard from the experts what the main problems are in this. It must be said that, as one of the problems raised, the subject came up: if we have so far interpreted according to the Constitution that basic education is clearly free of tuition, that is to say, free of charge, whether we should set some limit in private education in this respect. For example, let's say you can charge tuition, but for what? I dare assure you today that at least half of the private schools are boldly thinking about it. Let's set the rules! For example, if the school is unable to obtain premises or has to borrow to work on rental premises, it is in an unfair situation. But if a private school has all the same conditions as the municipal school next door, it's not reasonable to take extra tuition. We should do what we do in Scandinavia. The school can be in any form of ownership of a state, private or municipal school, it doesn't matter. There are certain issues in private education, such as religious content and other rules. But parents would have the same choice. But briefly, the private school law was passed by the previous government. This issue must certainly be discussed once again in the key to basic education. However, the stable basis that we provided for private education, so as to dare and carry on, we certainly do not want to change and lose.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U29	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You said, in answer to the fourth question of the heirs, that I recall that this is about the growth of new teachers and the shortage of welcome teachers in certain areas, nature and science in particular, that this topic requires a wider debate on how to attract teachers of natural sciences and technology to school. Here's my question. What kind of America do you expect to discover in this area if these solutions are actually well known in the world? I am thinking of creating a competition for the relevant disciplines of the higher education institution, and this requires a much greater increase in the salary of the entire faculty.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U31	Thank you. The simplest answer, of course, is that we need additional resources, extra money. But the second serious issue is for university faculty. I'm not just talking about lecturers, I'm talking about other professors. You may remember that about two years ago the University of Tartu brought up this problem in the case of law, but it is also in the IT sector. For example, in vocational education, a few masters are familiar with the subject of teaching technology and technology. There are different estimates for the IT sector: who has talked about 10,000 jobs, who have talked about 30,000 possible new jobs. And compete on the pay level with the opportunities offered by the IT sector? It is not about discovering America or inventing a bicycle, but about how we can compete in the IT sector with such fast-growing wages and interest that we have enough of its teachers. Of course, there is nothing to discover. The main question is why we have a shortage of these teachers at all. We have people who have improved in education and are already working as a teacher, doing excellent work. And it is safe to say that there are people who support education who see the mission. They are not perhaps full-time but part-time teachers, entrepreneurs. They are very good at IT and come to education either for their own children or simply for the mission. They understand that there is a need to start from rural areas in this area. These are the two sides. But when I briefly summarise what the experts have offered to discuss at the hearing, there are a number of topics here: the popularization of science, different flexible methods, different programmes such as 'Youth in School' and 'Back to School', opportunities for further training, different modules that are offered. In fact, a lot has been thought out about what to do in cooperation with the IT field. But the main pressure, of course, is that the increase in teachers' salaries is a priority. But given what the IT sector is doing now with its salaries, it is very difficult to imagine that we can keep up with them at this rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask a question. Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As a former head of government, my teacher's salary is a matter close to my heart. You have said that this is also a priority for the government, but the recently adopted state budget does not show this well. In answer to the fifth question of today's inquiry, you said that if, in the past, this wage increase has been around EUR 100, then it is now EUR 65. The point of the question was that you are saying that this is the minimum, but you are giving less money to do so. It is this 20% issue that has now fallen to 17%. You did not give a meaningful answer to this, but you said that the local government tends to use teachers' salaries for something else. It was very painful to hear that, I really don't want to believe it as a former head of government. For example, in 2020 Rae Municipality will allocate EUR 747507 from its own resources to the salaries of teachers. Please specify, however, where this money must come from. You say the minimum wage is like this, but you don't really give us the resources. And one more line: Rae Municipality pays 100 euros from its own resources to each teacher in addition to the minimum wage, this money is not spent on anything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U34	Thank you. I hope Rae Municipality therefore knew what the minimum rates were. Well, good questioner, you know how that money comes. The minimum rate is taken into account for the position of teacher, and the number of children and certain coefficients are also important. This is a so-called bounty-based calculation. This is the way it goes more widely, and what is given or less, is not very variable in local governments. You will also remember from your term of office that when you looked at these tables, for example, in the towns and municipalities of the Union, you saw that this level was quite different. There is also a difference in coefficients, the number of schools in the school network and other things. There are places where the minimum rate can hardly be paid because the numbers of posts and teachers are not at all in line. And there are other places where other aspects play. Of course, a good questioner also knows that these numbers are not the only figures. We are not paying the minimum plus buffer money, but, fortunately, we are paying for support services more and more. For example, last year the amount allocated to local authorities for support services increased by 5.4%: local authorities gained 1.8 million in addition to what has been paid in the two previous years. Of course, it does not satisfy everyone; we would like to increase the financial allocation more quickly. At the same time, it is a pleasure to note that this government of Jüri Ratas has done so at a much faster pace than the Reform Party ever did. Percentages for percentages, minimum rates have never increased at this rate, but the launch platform was, of course, low. Neither the EUR 300 nor the EUR 65 is what we would like to say that we have received what we expected. The pace of the increase should be maintained, that is our expectation. As far as 20% of this is concerned, I would stick to it, as I have already pointed out, that local authorities and experts are starting to consider. There's been a lot of talk about this. All this funding, as the leader of this so-called Golden Circle parish, you certainly know that you are a growing parish and that you need extra money in education all the time. There will be more children, but in other places we will not be able to reallocate this money quickly. We also have regions with a declining population very quickly and this dilemma is constantly in the air. Different municipalities have very different expectations. For very long years, we have had the attitude that we would rather try to keep close-home schools working, which means that the amount paid per child is somewhat higher in proportion than in growing areas such as Tallinn and Tallinn neighbourhood and the neighbourhood of Tartu and Tartu. But like I said, there are new bases coming. I understood the objectives of the working group that they were intended to be reviewed. Change has been quite rapid. And there will soon be another municipal election, several new administrative contracts will come to the table. Let us see how much new funding experts propose to discuss.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U35	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U36	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I ask about the external evaluation of learning outcomes. In all this debate, as you and others have said, changes are needed to ensure that the external evaluation of learning outcomes takes place over a longer period of time and in greater depth. It's not enough to have a comprehensive school final. I'm thinking about my time at school: national level work has been done for the entire nine years. In a sense, we have already had this regular national external evaluation of learning outcomes for over 20 years. How has this debate suddenly come up with no external evaluation? But the second question I have is that no matter how we build an external evaluation system and how we change national curricula, all of this should be based on an educational strategy that is still being drawn up. Is it not more reasonable to move forward in such a way that we first have this strategy in place and according to it...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U37	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U38	... we then agree on how to change the curriculum and how to evaluate learning outcomes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U39	Thank you. Of course, a broad-based strategy is underway. And, as far as I know, two years and a very high level. Very good experts have discussed this and are now trying to put together compact documents on the basis of these different ideas. Honourable people have participated, the group leaders were Eamets and Lauristin and Sutrop, who naturally included others. There have been a number of engagement events, round tables, where proposals have come from. As far as I know, they're trying to put together a joint document. The strategy office expects this document to be consistent and dense in terms of proposals. Perhaps the volume of the leaves could save a little more and formulate proposals rather as goals and less details. But let's see, live-see. Now for the external evaluation. Of course, we're not talking about starting from scratch. I'm a long way from that. I think consistency has brought us so far that we are the best in the world. We rely heavily on our traditions and strengthen the foundation all the time. We're going through it, we're going through it, we're going to make some rocks harder, we're going to make the communication material better, we're going to have new technologies and new methods, but the foundation we're going to build on is still largely the same. Of course, the same level work that has been done for years also directs certain approaches to learning. There are also debates about how much one test affects what is being taught, how the state pays attention to certain things and how training takes place. According to this, teachers rethink their work. In my opinion, the professor emeritus of mathematics, who, at Tallinn University's first PISA summary, gave examples of how we had, since the beginning of the 2000s, received feedback from various works and also viewed international trends, placed a special emphasis on continuing teacher training in mathematics. That was before PISA's results started coming up. The approach to mathematics in Tartu and Tallinn was increasingly introduced through universities. Like he said, they're screwed and they're screwed and they're finally coming up with some sort of result. And the results may be in dispute, other times there is no such single truth. Teachers were made clear that mathematics was also practical. You must be able to put the mathematics language into practice and explain mathematics through real life. It took him years to figure it out, but the teachers came with it. Our success story is that if we compare it with the approach of PISA in other countries, we will see that the aha effect has not reached the mathematics teachers. It was his interpretation and it was very interesting to observe his performance. So we will certainly build on the experiences that we have had in the past, either through national evaluation or elsewhere. After all, teachers attend a lot of further training; they communicate with each other. Our teachers are very active and critically discussing the moments that should be developed and making suggestions on how. However, by the fact that I still do not like the word 'test', the harmonised national test system, but the better one that has been proposed to me so far could be on new bases and with a new approach, our rather critical subjects agree. The feedback has been very good. And the system should be renewed in all subjects, not only in these individual languages, mathematics and science. There should be a wider introduction of physics, chemistry, those areas that have so far remained at the level of the very small segment final exams.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U40	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U41	Thank you. There is certainly one problem, Madam Minister, that we cannot find teachers in schools very easily, especially in the case of young people. Fortunately, there are different programmes and associations that are working for it. I tried to find a line from the New Year's budget that says how much money the Ministry of Education will allocate to a school that supports a teacher who starts work. Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U42	I can say that I know for sure that last week, for the first time in the broadest sense, the General Education Department discussed what the social partners' agreements will be next year. My answer is that there is no such fixed amount. The questioner is likely to know that the Ministry of Education and Research has certain tools under the title of the general education programme and how this money is distributed between social partners, is a matter of many general education experts and, of course, of discussion between the Finance Department. Last week was the first meeting on this subject, so I certainly cannot tell you today what the amount will be and what the options will be. As far as I know, partners' contracts vary from 2000 to several hundred thousand. I can't tell you exactly today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U43	Thank you. Minister, there are no further questions for you. Now we're opening negotiations. First of all, there is the opportunity for the representative of the heirs to come to the speaker's desk. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U44	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister, thank you for your answers. Our Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps is an experienced minister and the answers were all right and smooth. I would not like to criticise the Minister in any way here in the pre-Christmas period, but I would like to put forward the ideas of the Social Democrats, which are the main issues in our education, the development of which will take us forward. It must be said, of course, that we are very pleased with Estonian education in general, with our students and teachers, with our scientists and universities. But we would like to be a little more satisfied with the overall management of education. There are three issues that are extremely important. The first topic, and in fact, should only talk about it, is the teacher, the teacher, the teacher. If one in four physics teachers is over 60 years old, one in four science teachers is over 60 years old, then the crisis is very close. Obviously, the measures listed by the Minister must be implemented very consistently, re-trained for people like us who are sitting in this Chamber and who, if necessary and if there is a higher education, could also go to school to teach some subjects. It's possible someone stays in full-time school for the next challenge of life. Why not after a certain re-training? And the teacher's salary must never be neglected. The second topic: universities need support. This scarce amount, which has now been added to the university, unfortunately, says that somehow more could not or could not ask the minister, and this narrow addition, which was added to the pay of the teaching staff, raises the salary by 2%, as confirmed by the universities. It doesn't make any sense in people's wallets. In this situation, where we have 40% of PhD students from outside Estonia, we must be very, very concerned about our science and higher education. That is why a significant increase in university funding, whether or not through credit, is essential. I know that we are very conservative about the balance of the budget in Estonia, but this is a major challenge for us in the coming years. The third issue I want to draw attention to is the supportive school environment. Students, including students with special needs, need support from teachers. Speaking to teachers, teachers complain, not about pay, but about how they feel in school on a daily basis. And now it has become clear that the head of school needs support. So a supportive school environment, working together for it in every way, is our third challenge. But finally, thank you to our excellent teachers, thank you to everyone in the field of education, and thank you, of course, to the Minister. Power for the coming year and a beautiful Christmas for all those who are involved in education and education!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U45	Thank you. There are no more requests for speech, I will conclude the negotiations and, with it, the questioning process.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U46	We will go to the following inquiry: the inquiry submitted on 6 November by Maris Lauri, Liina Kersna, Signe Riisalo, Kaja Kallas, Erkki Keldo, Toomas Kivimägi, Aivar Sõerdi, Hele Everausi, Andres Suti, Urmas Kruuse, Vilja Toomasti, Mart Võrklaar, Annely Akkermanni, Andrus Seeme, Ants Laaneots, Jüri Jaanson, Yoko Alender, Taavi Rõivas and Heidy Purga, members of the Riigikogu, concerning the unequal treatment of children studying in Estonian-speaking schools (No 9). A representative of the inquisitors here in the chair! Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U47	Ladies and gentlemen, The reason for this inquiry is very simple. In Ida-Virumaa, however, we actually know that in many other areas of Estonia, where there are a little more non-Estonians living, for example in Valga, but also in Tartu and elsewhere, it has happened that more and more of these children are coming to Estonian schools to study. Since their contact with the Estonian language has been limited, the home language is usually Russian, but there are other languages, there is also the Roma language, German and other languages, but the kindergarten has often been in Russian, their knowledge of the Estonian language is not enough to cope with learning in Estonian. The problem is also particularly acute in Ida-Virumaa, that the level of teaching the Estonian language in Russian schools in primary school has been very poor. Graduates often fail in Estonian either in upper secondary school or in vocational school. These problems are very big and complex. You can tell anecdotal stories about it forever. This is precisely the case in recent years, when you look at the statistics, children have started to be placed in Estonian-language schools. The reason probably also is that the young people who have grown up in free Estonia have become parents. Perhaps they perceive that their school education is perhaps not as good as that which would have ensured their progress. Yes, in Estonian-language school you will get a very good Estonian mouth and certainly a better education. This is also shown by the fact that, unfortunately, the result of the PISA test in Russian schools is about a school year behind that of Estonian schools. If we look at the change that has taken place in eight years, in 2010-2018, we can see that in many schools in Ida-Virumaa, the share of children in purely Estonian has been significantly reduced by both parents in Estonian. For example, at Illuka School, this figure is 67%, at Kohtla-Järve Järve School, just under 64%, at Ahtme School 66.7%, etc. I'm not naming the school of Sillamäe and Narva where this level has been lower before. These are Estonian-speaking children whose parents are both Estonians, but there are still children who have one of the parents Estonian, the other Russian, their language skills are often incomplete. Half Estonian language means that these children need additional education in Estonian while studying in Estonian. This has not been specifically funded, but I must say that before the current Minister of Education took office, additional funding was allocated to Järve School in the context of special projects in the most difficult circumstances. Currently, the government only provides support for children who study in Russian schools, but not for those who study in Estonian-language schools, or where language learning is the fastest to deliver good results. Why this is not being done and what is going to be done is the key question of this question. Perhaps, what is being done to solve this problem? What is the state of play in the development of systemic support programmes and the level of financial support? The fact that this is serious indicates the conversion of the Virumaa Educational Society, as well as the visit to the Kohtla-Järve Järve School, which unfortunately has not been answered in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U48	Please respond to the inquiry by Minister of Education and Science Mailis Repsi!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U49	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Maris Lauri has already raised a number of questions with which I can wholeheartedly agree. After all, many of the programmes that we have developed over the years were rather based on the fact that Russian schools were involved in the changeover. If you look at the numbers, it is clear that the question, of course, is not just in Ida-Viru County, this picture is wider. And it is true that the great expectation of Russian-speaking parents is that solutions will be found that will guarantee their children a very good knowledge of the Estonian language. One way is to switch to real Estonian-language education. But a good questioner knows that there are some Estonian-language schools in Lasnamäe, for example, where more than half of the first-class students do not speak Estonian at home. Well, that's a big challenge, isn't it? Good experts have helped prepare the answers for you, and I have to say that it was quite interesting to follow up on these analyses. First of all, as you rightly point out, it is natural that in schools where children with different native languages study, teachers' competences need to be constantly increased. Both taking into account and supporting the linguistic development of the student and, of course, giving the subject must be clearly purposeful in teaching. There is an ongoing analysis of how linguistic goals are addressed. There must also be a supportive classroom, for example, new teaching aids that can be put on classroom walls to support students. The teacher decides how the teaching class takes place, which educational materials are chosen, how they are adapted and individualised according to learners' needs, how the learner's development is feedbacked. The Innove Foundation has a centre for language immersion in multilingual education, offering teachers and school teams a variety of trainings and counselling. The interest of schools and teachers with Estonian language of instruction in further training has increased considerably. For example, in 2019, one third of teachers who had participated in courses in subjects and languages were integrated from schools with Estonian language of instruction. A total of 309 teachers attended the training. In addition, this year three Estonian schools themselves have ordered on-site training from the centre. It is estimated that 40 teachers of Estonian-language schools have participated in national trainings. The Centre also offers teachers who teach lessons in Estonian to students with other native languages, special counselling and consulting on educational resources. Counselling can be obtained, for example, in connection with post-training activities. The teacher responds to the practical application of the acquired knowledge, the counsellor arrives and monitors the teacher's lessons according to mutual agreement, followed by feedback in the form of advice. The teacher can also then reflect on his work, set new goals, and the development of cooperation will be reviewed. It is also possible to obtain a counsellor who provides advice on a need-based basis. The focus of advice will be tailored to the needs of the teacher, and further action will be planned on this basis. In 2019, the budget for advice and training was EUR 165000 in this specific area. Innoves has also created a Pathfinder network. The Pathfinder Centre provides support and education, including language counselling for parents. Parents can and have turned to the Pathfinder Centre once the primary school specialists have already dealt with the child, but further advice is needed, for example, for changes in the organisation of education. But sometimes you just need an impartial assessment. Based on the results of the educational counselling, the parent will receive suggestions on how to support the development of the child, how to support the child's livelihood, find out whether, and if so, what support services the child needs. For this to happen, cooperation between the school family is very important, but sometimes third party involvement is also needed. There was also a question of support programmes. You could sum it up like this. In order to increase teachers' willingness and competence to work with non-Estonian children, it is important to provide the necessary support to schools and teachers systematically and consistently. It is also important that schools are aware of different opportunities, such as the same national continuing training, as well as regional training. It is also important to share mutual practices or rather to share best practices. This year, regional training has been carried out in Tallinn, Narva, Jõhvi, Tartu and Pärnu. And the best practices have been discussed there. Counselling for teachers' school teams takes place according to their needs. They must also be able to advise parents. The experts of the Ministry of Education and Research have also pointed out that they want to continue to develop and update and supplement the curriculum of training, because even more attention needs to be paid to the expectations and needs of teachers of Estonian schools and to think about how to involve specialists in higher education in this field. The third is the issue of money. I must say that, thanks to your inquiry, we had a very lively discussion at the Ministry of Education and Research, along with the foundations, about how this system works. As the good questioner has already said, it may be a surprise for some, but it turned out that the state really supports language immersion classes and teachers with an additional EUR 185 per student. This language immersion class is open at a school with either Estonian or Russian language language and the teacher must use language immersion methods. As the questioner certainly knows, the immersion class is made up of students whose native language is not Estonian, and in such a class at least 40% of the volume prescribed in the national curriculum is taught in Estonian. But the language immersion methodology is based on a different methodology and not all schools want to expand its use. It is also important to note that we also have new immigrants. Their rate of support shall be EUR 400. The total support for the implementation of the language immersion methods will be 1.3 million in 2020 and EUR 134000 for new immigrants. In answer to your question, I can say on behalf of the experts that it is really planned to revise the support system for language learning as a whole. The country's opportunities to provide support to children in other languages in the best sustainable way have also been seriously discussed. And since the number of such children in Estonian-language schools is increasing, and this is certainly not only a matter of Russian-language background, but of very different backgrounds, it is undoubtedly necessary to analyse the choice of other necessary measures in addition to these trainings and advice for teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U50	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U51	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Today I asked Valga Elementary School and received such an answer that they have, on average, 23% of students in the class, either in other languages or in bilingual languages. 23% of the class set! And this trend is constantly growing. As you yourself very rightly said, I repeat that this is very clear, the state currently supports the language immersion classes in Russian schools with separate money and the learning of new immigrants with separate money, but the Russian-speaking children of our own citizens who are going to the Estonian-speaking school cannot receive additional support for learning so that they can get along more quickly in the Estonian-speaking school. However, I look forward to a more detailed overview of what your plans will be to help these schools and those teachers who are now ahead of the classes do better?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U52	Good questioner! One piece of detail. After all, Canada has been supported by the language bath centre, which has been the source of funding. It has had very strong supporters, and there have also been very many debates on this issue. The language immersion can be supported even if it is done at a school in Estonian. And we have two Estonian-language schools who teach according to the special method of immersion. But I stress this because it is not a question of Russian or Estonian education, but of methodology. And it is true that the questioners may have known this, the respondents were surprised that language learning is not supported with separate money when using other methods. There are a wide range of support measures, as I read out here, with various trainings and recognitions. That's right. We know these schools, you called Valga, I mentioned two schools in Lasnamäe, where the proportion of Russian children really exceeds 50%. We have several other regions that have historically had separate schools, and now dozens of schools with different language of instruction have gathered together and work in the main Estonian language. And there may be a very different proportion in the classes, not another one: 4. For example, there is one area where schools were put together and Russian students are in the majority, but the school still works in Estonian. But yes, the extra money in this form, except the amount that comes as a bounty, has not been allocated during these years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U53	Thank you. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U54	Thank you. Your answer quite well understood that I don't think you understand the essence of this problem. These trainings, yes, help those teachers who have just come into this situation, or when there are few, less than 10% or even less than 5% of students in another language. If there are more 20, 15, 30, 40, 50 or 60% of them and there are also classes with all children from non-Estonian families in Estonian school, these methods will no longer help. Smaller groups will then be needed, an individual approach will be needed, all of which will require financial support. What support is there to expect? This also requires financial support, certainly, but have you thought about it
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U55	Thank you. Well, we'll have to go down in history when it comes to immersion. At that point, when these methods were discussed, one method received very broad support, the other aspects were slightly sidelined. I am very grateful to the authors of the questioning, because, of course, from this angle, the state of things may have been too little looked at. It's always been about us having a transition. But more and more we have to admit together that it is very nice that the Russian-speaking population trusts the Estonian education system and makes such decisions, even though it presents great challenges to schools. As I said, this problem is not only in Valga and Ida-Virumaa, it is wider. At the same time, there are regions where no one remembers that there has ever been a Russian-speaking school. The Russian-speaking community is of considerable size, but all children go to school where they work mainly in Estonian. I guess these schools have shared the best practices, explained how to support them. They themselves have made more small groups, supported students by creating individual curricula. These methods used in school are, as a good questioner knows, quite similar to those applied to other learning difficulties. There is only one part of the support for language learning. But why did I read these trainings? Because this is what Innove has been doing and where Innove sees opportunities. They were created by the trackfinder to ensure that, if the language causes a very large backwardness and there are differences of opinion as to whether the special needs are involved or whether the learning difficulties arise only from the language, then the advice of the trackfinder has been remarkably important. They're like two aspects. Is there a need for additional funding in this case? I think we all know Lilleküla School, for example. The school has been meeting with you for many years, and they have also paid attention to the fact that their students have a very different home language. It has been one of these most open schools and has also received a great deal of recognition in this regard. There are returnees and families who speak very different languages at home, often even three languages. These children find it very difficult to cope in the Estonian education system, but there are some schools that have taken special steps, and one of them is the Lilleküla school. These schools have proposed several times that the name of this aid probably should not be the coefficient of a child with special needs, but there could be some other leverage lever. However, it has been said so far that education is complex and language-specificity is one of the learning difficulties that must be approached as a single system. However, I think this debate is crucial. We could certainly bring this matter under discussion, because schools have pointed it out separately. But so far, there is no additional coefficient for language learning.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U56	Thank you. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U57	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Dear Minister, You also mentioned yourself that many Russian-speaking families really prefer the Estonian-speaking school, and it seemed to me that you still considered it positive. At the same time, you made it clear that you did not know that these children would not be supported. I agree that this is a growing trend. And this is a very good trend, despite the fact that we have not been able to say politically that we, as a country, are contributing to it. Perhaps the same thing that we have not been able to say it has led us to a situation where we do not actually hear from the respondent ideas that would help develop this trend to the point that our education system offers equal opportunities for all children. So what do the Minister think these concrete ideas are? What is the state's support for this growing society so that they can cope in the School of Unity?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U58	I am very strongly supportive, and I believe that we all support a uniform school system in this Chamber. I tried to explain it to you, but then I will explain it again: the approach taken over these years is that the Estonian-language education system in Estonia is a fundamental foundation. Yes, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act allows local governments to make their own decisions, and so it has been so far. But this trend, that students with very different language and cultural backgrounds study together in local government schools, private schools and public schools, is obvious. That is the case in Estonia. The home language is not considered to be a special need, in principle this attitude has been taken. In preparation for an inquiry, the Ministry of Education and Research and Innove experts repeatedly discussed whether this should be considered as a special need and, if so, in what cases. At least so far, the opinion remains that home language is not a basis for saying that the child's learning difficulties are justified. It may be one of the motives why a child is left behind, but it may not be. And it is very clear that this is not the case. It was a question of whether a similar coefficient system should apply more widely if, at one point in time, these additional coefficients were introduced and have remained so. If so, the question is on what basis. Should the calculation be student-based or class-based? How much must students with other home language have in the class and how adapted do they need to be? It's such a fundamental question. The language immersion has its own methodology and is class-based. But the signals that come more and more from schools are that these children are scattered around classes and schools need support. Take, for example, the same address in Ida-Virumaa. They said they wanted extra resources for the school. They do not want higher class-based coefficients, but want to make smaller groups, to approach children more individually. And in that case, we are talking about a general financing system. There is a very large difference between setting a higher coefficient according to our home language or giving specific schools extra money to use certain methods. It's a fundamental difference. To clarify, too, we did this calculation because the political debate before the elections was very lively. We took as a basis how many children we have at all and, according to the EHIS, how many non-Estonian children we do not want to discriminate against and say that they have a special need. So let's say they need to be eliminated, no, that's also a separate term, that's not good. -Add? It's also a term. Maybe you could say they need a little extra attention. That amount would be around 32 million. This would mean that every child in other languages, at any level of Estonian, would receive special attention. But the schools say you can't take it that easy. The home language may be different, but the child's learning ability, his or her learning results, doesn't make any sense. So the question of how and what solutions we are proposing here needs special attention. But yes, I assure you that I was also surprised that we have been in favour of certain processes in our education system for more than 20 years, but the only method that we support separately in language learning is immersion. But, well, that's how he's historically established.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U59	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I listened to your report. The basic word you've used, I didn't start to read how many times it sounded, but definitely a couple of ten-thirty times, is the word "advisory." When a child with another home language comes to school, everyone needs guidance: teachers and children and parents. But whoever has learned a foreign language knows that language still needs to be learned. The question, in my opinion, is that many parents are so great Estonian patriots that they put their children into Estonian schools, but we cannot find the money to teach these children to study in Estonian. It's kind of embarrassing to hear about all this counseling, kids need teachers and learning, and that's how they learn the language.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U61	Thank you. Now I'm gonna have to name some facts. First of all, if we also look at the level papers approved here today or the national tests or the results of the newly assembled PISA, then the children who speak a different language at home, but who study in Estonian, are specifically mentioned. Of course, we also have children who speak Estonian at home, but who study Russian at school or speak another language at home, but go to Russian school. They are mentioned separately because there are also a considerable number of children. There is no significant difference between the learning outcomes of children and the results of children who attend an Estonian-language school but speak another language at home. I dare assure you that our teachers do an excellent job: they teach both matter and language. This system is also based on the fact that in many kindergartens this work is done and the willingness to study in Estonian at school already exists for children, having been achieved by different methods. We also have kindergartens with immersion, which use methods of early immersion. These are kindergartens in Estonian, from which children with a very good Estonian language background have entered the educational system. So when it comes to language learning for first-class entrants, there are very few examples. Why has the emphasis been placed on counseling? The reason is that there are many other things that teachers often fail to notice. I believe that the heirs, as well as many others, understood the conversion of Ida-Virumaa. But it's not an isolated incident, there are other approaches. It is not so much a question of language learning, but of how to approach children's different learning skills or their individuality. So far, it has been very clear that different learning difficulties, whether they come from a language or something else, must be approached in a relatively similar way, but according to what kind of support a child needs. Whether this means a larger group, a more individual approach, depends on the motivation. Once again, we must discuss this with you on the basis of which the improvement of language skills could be supported, which approach would be appropriate. It is not just a question of giving additional resources to certain schools; it is a question of what is missing in the system. Should the approach remain the same, that learning difficulty is a learning difficulty, and if advice is needed in order for teachers to adopt new methods, advice support will be provided? Perhaps a particular teacher comes into contact with this method for the first time, maybe the system has become too big, maybe the school isn't ready for it? So far, there has been such an approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U62	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U63	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We have stressed and also rejoiced many times that more and more children with non-Estonian home language study in Estonian. Basic percentages by school, county by county. But does the Ministry of Education and Research know how much children with non-Estonian home language learn today in Estonian-language kindergartens, primary schools, upper secondary schools? Is receiving such information in any way also a delicate question that the ministry is uncomfortable to address to families and schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U64	A very unexpected question! I don't know if that's a delicate question. As far as I know, it is possible to make this note in the EHIS, and whether there are any obstacles to it, I really cannot say. I don't have any feedback on that, and I don't want to be wrong. As far as I know, these orders of magnitude are in thousands, but I'll get those numbers, I don't have them with me today. Let's just say that the numbers vary from region to region. I understand this hint of delicacy, but I can't answer it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U65	Thank you. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U66	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I too was surprised to learn that there are eight Estonian schools in Ida-Virumaa and only two of them have less than 25% of Russian children. In fact, supporting an Estonian-language school in Ida-Virumaa is important not only when thinking about Russian-speaking children, but also when thinking about Estonian children. Ida-Viru School Leaders Association has asked for a reasonable sum of EUR 200000 per year for all six schools, in particular to hire another teacher or support specialist at the school. You have at your disposal a budget that means teaching the Estonian language and teaching it in Estonian. If I understood this correctly, this money is seven to eight million. Part of this basic money, part of next year's budget is a little bit more money. However, would it be possible to redistribute money in such a way that these schools in Ida-Virumaa will receive support next year when this system, as you rightly stress, is being developed? Is...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U67	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U68	Could this 7 to 8 million be pinched at EUR 200000?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U69	First of all, out of this seven to eight million, I guess that's the order of magnitude. It has a considerable share of schools established in Ida-Virumaa and supported. They have historically been supported for a very long time by several million. Is it a proposal to take their support away from them and give it to others? I'm not ready to answer that question so easily today. However, I would leave it to the Ministry of Education and Research and to the discussions of specific local governments. The questioner's reference to the use of money is quite correct. I also remember that the previous government, in a small circle, briefly discussed this issue when another money was being distributed. It was pointed out that some of the additional money has been allocated long ago, let's say that historically developed and barely recipients and givers will remember how these agreements have started. Perhaps the objectives set are not all well discussed. But knowing this area, I think it's very difficult to move several million from there to another. Now for the extra money. Some of this will definitely remain for the kindergarten program. The good questioner certainly agrees that the more we move on with this in kindergartens, the more parents will decide in favour of the Estonian school. Yoko Alender spoke about the political debate earlier. The difference between us is that all these years I have believed, and also today I believe that the more we create levers in which the parent and the community can make their own choices in favour of the Estonian language, the more understanding and understandable this process is. Such solutions, which we have tried to implement with national orders and prohibitions, are generally not working in the education system. They do not work in Estonia or elsewhere. But there are these levers, like the same kindergartens. I can safely get you some statistics on that. If the child completes the Russian-language kindergarten, the good questioner knows these numbers, a little over 2% of them will go to the Estonian-language school or mainly to the Estonian-language school. If a child is studying in a language bath or in an Estonian-language kindergarten, one in four makes this choice. So the difference is about ten times. The more we bring these opportunities to early childhood education and primary education, the more courageous parents are. But, of course, there must also be additional funding, support. The idea of implementing the second teacher proposed by the schools in Ida-Virumaa has also been contained in this pilot programme from the outset by smaller groups, more individualised approach, more teacher opportunities. I take this turn very seriously. What will be the solutions? The budget has just been approved, I believe we need to discuss these issues very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U70	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U71	Thank you. Dear Minister, You are basically talking about the coefficients and the redeployment of money, although you yourself admitted that this is not the only option. You've been a minister for three years now. In this three-year period, have there been any other ideas on how to solve this problem, apart from raising money and reducing the coefficients? And I'm going to expand the debate a little bit, and I'm going to bring in another subject. You touched kindergartens a little. Männik has one kindergarten in Tallinn, where there are both Russian and Estonian groups and very many Russian-speaking parents have placed children in Estonian-speaking groups. I asked the kindergarten teacher if it had been a problem. He said that there has been a problem, just as in the case of schools, when parents speak bad Estonian. It is not that they speak Russian, but that they speak Estonian badly. Then there's been a problem. That's my question. In fact, you can see that the more children are placed in Estonian kindergartens, the easier it is at school. Do you personally support this and how you, together with the local authorities, try to develop this issue further...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U72	I'm asking you to stick to your time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U73	Thank you. First of all, I'm sorry, but when I was talking about the money, I tried to answer the questions. I guess I said too little about the broader context. But at the same time, I was able to fight a little while ago when I talked too much about counseling. This other context is just advice and support. But we don't usually just think about the categories of money. On the contrary, in the fields of education and research, content is the most important. However, of course, the spokespersons in this Riigikogu have perhaps approached the debates in the key to the budget. Now from kindergartens. From the heart, I support you! In this sense, I support both school and kindergarten, and I support all the choices made by parents and communities themselves. And we need to think together about how we can support this process even more. I do not support choices that we have not discussed properly before. If we ban or close something, the consequences must be considered. I believe that the good questioners also agree that we must take some areas into account in a special way. But more broadly, this trend has been very clear and it has been growing rather than shrinking. It is also very clear that there are whole regions where these decisions have been taken. As for Männik's kindergarten and other similar kindergartens, one possible solution is, of course, an early immersion. Another possible solution is what you have cited: the child is simply placed in a kindergarten with another language. My own aunt works in an Estonian-language kindergarten, where for years there has been a clear majority of children speaking other native language. And, of course, it's a challenge. Annely didn't like me talking about counseling, but my aunt says that the main thing is the security that needs to be given to the parent. Everything needs to be clarified, because the identity issue is actually a very sensitive issue in families, especially when the father and mother differ. The teacher also needs to explain from the delicate side how much the Estonian language gives and what the child's future educational choices will be. The second question is willingness to attend school. It is very concerned that if a child receives all of his or her early childhood education in Estonian, he or she will be sufficiently prepared to continue his or her studies in that language, or there will be setbacks. Well, we also know the situations in which 6.1 to 7. There are still difficulties in the classroom. This very difficult transition period, and if there are still problems with the language of instruction, is the child strong enough to cope? These questions are usually presented in early childhood education, as kindergarten is the place where the child is prepared for the next stage. You're asking me what I've done in three years. We have been very seriously discussing another delicate issue: how much should children be educated in their mother tongue and culture, either on the basis of Sunday schools or using various other methods? For example, how to teach Russian and literature when a child is studying at an Estonian school? These are very delicate subjects. The Russian cultural centre and Sunday schools have highlighted it separately and asked if they could be the support for Estonian-language schools where there are less than 10% of Russian children. We need to think about whether to open up additional learning opportunities for these children and, if so, whether the amount of foreign language lessons will be reduced, for example. These are aspects that we need to examine. But the percentages are really increasing. In kindergartens, we see it a lot and more in schools. As I said at the beginning today: there are basically no schools that work mostly in Russian or only in Russian. And the proportion of teaching in Estonian is increasing even in the most common Russian schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U74	... and solve?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U75	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U76	Thank you. Good minister! My own children have all learned some part of their school time outside Estonia in one way or another, and in that sense, I am well familiar with the topic. School support throughout this process is crucial. I will continue with the previous question. I would like to know what else you have considered in addition to training and money, which has been much discussed here, in order to support the success of children whose mother tongue is not Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U77	Thank you. The most important thing is that the Estonian education system is just so good that we have such excellent teachers that they can cope with different difficulties. And if they don't find a solution, they'll ask their colleagues for the best practices. This is real life. There are a variety of individual cases in our education system, it is linguistic or some other specifics, but they can be resolved. It's a full day's work. The teacher will gain this experience through either graduate education or further training. Sometimes he or she comes into contact with a few individual cases for the first time and the more teachers in the network, the more solutions he or she will be offered. The best practices, and even the many criticisms of the various European Union instruments with which cooperation networks and other cooperation have been supported, will help. It's been a sign. We have been talking about money because the solution is not just to give extra money, but, for example, smaller groups or questioners have brought out some other solutions or other methodologies need money. We need to know whether these measures are necessary and, if so, how much teachers need. It is not so much a question of money numbers. One of these solutions is that there are two teachers in the class. Two teachers in the class mean that general teaching is structured in its normal rhythm and the second, supportive teacher helps those who need support at the moment. Of course, if these two teachers have different language backgrounds, then this really means that the teaching takes place in Estonian, but if a child needs additional time or clarification, he or she will not be translated, he or she will be made aware of the matter. And at one point, this child feels safe. The transition will therefore be more flexible and calm. It's one of the possible methods. I am not putting pressure on anyone to use it, although very many countries do so for new immigrants, when linguistic background needs to be acquired very quickly in order to continue in the education system. This is one of the measures that we have taken for two years and, at least in the case of early childhood education, parents' confidence in it has been very high. This is very important because if parents believe in it, children and teachers will have positive cooperation. So one very good method. I assure you that experts from the Ministry of Education and Research, as well as school leaders and teachers, are trying to take over the best practices in different countries. I know that last year's Dutch experience was studied, visited Britain and studied the involvement of these different communities. For example, we have the experience of Tallinn European School about how children of different cultural backgrounds and their parents grew in different language environments, and to what extent our main programme needs to be adapted to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U78	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U79	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'll take over right here. I'll ask you about language learning methodologies. How long has the immersion been applied, and has this two teacher's solution now been used for the last few years? How do they relate to each other, and how do these results differ from those obtained by conventional methods? What are these risks and benefits, and how do schools that apply one method or another receive advice and other support? How does this competence build up? I mean, on the one hand, flexibility is good, but can we offer several teaching methods of high quality? Are there really training materials, advisors, follow-up support and, in fact, the monitoring of results in terms of achieving what is desired?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U80	Thank you. By opening a smart city today, Rector Aaviksoo said very nicely that Estonia is not small, but very small. I will then confirm these words: Estonia is very small and we have two universities working on this nuance in the field of education. And both of these universities have been behind the launch of this pre-primary education, not the pilot program anymore, but, let's say, the programme. Perhaps most of their time went to what you asked: how to put in place a reference system, what the relevant knowledge is, in which countries such experiences are in place. As far as I am concerned, the first early childhood education teachers in the Netherlands went to look at their lessons and to determine which methodological materials were also needed. The experience of transferring progress from pre-school education to comprehensive school has not been fully developed. I'm not a language immersion specialist, but I've gotten to know these materials, and I've been to these schools and kindergartens a lot. However, I am not so strong in this methodology that I would be prepared to deal with all the nuances here. I do not wish to be mistaken, but at this primary level, I dare to confirm that the Russian language background is very strong and that there is more emphasis on one part of the study of Estonian. In the case of two teacher programs, I think it is rather the case that one language dominates as in basic education and the other teacher is helping there. There is also a two-sided method of immersion, but once again: I am not as strong a specialist in this area as I would dare to compare. There is a need to offer different methods in knowledge-based cooperation with the university, so everyone can finally choose what fits. As long as the objective is clearly defined and children's learning skills and knowledge of the subject are not affected.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U81	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The Trouble Committee on the Development of Estonian Language Learning, chaired by Mikhail Stalnukhin, has studied a wide range of topics during this period. The Commission has met representatives of both the University of Tartu and Tallinn University. But by visiting schools, the shortage of suitable educational materials is rising over and over again. How do you feel about that? Are you aware of this, or do you think it's not a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U83	If the good questioner says that the Trouble Committee claims that this is one of the main problems, then it is. I am not ready to present any evidence-based material at the moment and I do not know whether we are prepared to adapt our teaching resources in any way. The debate on whether we should have tailor-made teaching tools for these children has been going on for almost 20 years. Part of the educational materials have been developed for this purpose. There are people who say that they have been very well worked out and that everything is necessary is there, others say that there isn't. We have had a number of different programmes to develop teaching tools, and there have also been some procurements. However, if it is thought that there are not enough teaching resources, we must look, perhaps a targeted programme is needed. In general, the development of textbooks and educational tools is part of a free market economy. Curriculum must only be based on the curriculum and approved by subjects professionals. In general, however, it is necessary to take logic into account. Procurement has been carried out in areas where market failures exist. If the area says that there is a market failure in this or the other part and there is a need to do something about it, then there is an opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U84	Thank you. Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U85	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary! There are 1.3 million people living in Estonia today, 910000 of them Estonians, while the rest are foreigners who speak mainly Russian. Although the law provides both for one national language and probably for its teaching in schools, Russian is dominant in many schools, not to mention the street. The inspection carried out by the Ministry of Education in Russian schools was a few years ago, I do not know whether this has been done recently, for example in Narva, has demonstrated a significantly lower level of knowledge for students than in Estonian schools. Secondly, it is also important that neither the Estonian language is learned. I've been talking to schoolchildren in Narva. They know something, but they do not see normal integration into Estonian society and many say that we are either going west or going to Russia with one solution or another. Is it not time for the Ministry of Education to act more resolutely and resolve this issue somehow? Somehow it should be possible to carry out teaching in the national language.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U86	Thank you. There were a number of aspects in the introduction to the question. Firstly, the results of education do not say that there is something wrong with our Russian-speaking school. The results of students in Russian-speaking schools are very good, even excellent. To compare international data, the weakest are the boys of the Russian-speaking school. In proportion, boys in primary school have slightly weaker results, but also boys in Russian school are clearly above the OECD average. So in this sense, our education is also very good in Russian-speaking schools. But yes, there is a difference. The difference is, for example, in reading results when using PISA alone. However, other assessments can also be analysed. Our own data is similar. There are two kinds of differences between reading results. Firstly, the share of assistance: the proportion of those who are the weakest. In Russian school, the helping or individual approach may not have been very effective, as the percentage of students with particularly weak results is about 10% higher than in Estonian school. The average scores are the same, the percentage of the weakest is 10% higher. When you take the particularly smart ones who are at the very top and whose motivation is to go far in life, it is appreciated whether they are able to reach the top in life through their education, the difference between the proportion of students in Estonian and those in Russian is also about 10%. But once again, the averages are basically the same. The difference is in helping the weak and especially the smart. That's where this difference really is, 10% here and 10% there, that's what makes the difference of 20%, which is equal to six months to a year of study. Can we say from feedback on learning outcomes that this is a broader, more complex issue for the education system? One thing we need to learn from this is that teachers need to be introduced to new methodologies, new approaches to learning. For them, different training courses are organised, which we do in cooperation with universities. We must pay special attention to ensuring that all teachers are involved, regardless of their language background. The Language Inspectorate is still collecting data. The Language Inspectorate says that language levels are not sufficient and averages about a thousand teachers. It should be borne in mind that teachers' language skills must not be sufficient for simple communication, but in some areas they must have a very high or C level. If you teach part or all of the subjects or at least have the obligation to teach some subjects in Estonian, the level of language proficiency must be very high. Now, about the motivation, is it possible for us to find it together? I believe your data is correct. Take, for example, the same young people in Narva. Those young people who pass the test of Estonian as a national language at the end of the comprehensive school will do everything at the end of the comprehensive school and get an excellent result are about one third. And these absolute numbers have rather increased. The average result has generally improved, but it is still more or less the same. It is particularly worrying, however, that the results of the lower third have not changed much in the last 20 years. There is about a third of them who have very low motivation to learn the Estonian official language. What are these motives? What's in there with the Troubles? It is true that I, too, have met these young people. Fortunately, there are few who say that they do not see a place in our country. We really do know that the results are different. And the mandatory national language requirements we have set. It has produced quite a lot of good results, but how to motivate this last third, it is difficult. It is a matter of motivation in Narva, for a common person learns the language relatively quickly. We need to find solutions to create motivation. This would help these young people to be better linked to our society.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U87	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Having been the headmaster of a high school that has just had the same problems, I would like to say the word. The question is that the tools that our teachers are asking for in this document that have come to you are, in fact, the minimum that can be improved. In my experience, I can say that one problem is that children who speak a different language at home, most of them Russian, are struggling with home learning, because parents are unable to help them with the subjects they provide in Estonian. Unfortunately, I left school early, I didn't have time to put certain things into practice, but I had the idea of taking extra teachers to work in afternoon groups who could help children. But that means more resources for this school again. And it still means that how many children there are, more money should also be allocated proportionally. It can be rewrited out by a weighted average, it's not a big calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U89	Thank you. I understand that this is in the form of a proposal. I think this is a very good opportunity to support a long-term school and to give the so-called follow-up support in order to approach individually children who do not understand anything in their school lessons. This is a very good opportunity. There have also been talk here today about coefficients and additional teachers. All options should be discussed calmly. Of course, one way is to approach Ida-Virumaa separately, but rather a very strong signal has come from the school people that if a model is found, it must be honestly open to everyone. Valgat has also been mentioned here, but we know that there are some cities on the North Coast, which are mainly monolingual, but they have put Estonian and Russian together and the language of instruction is Estonian. I'm sure you know that Kunda was one of the first to make it, although a very large number of students speak a different language at home. But it wants to be sure to look at opportunities in an honest and broader way, not just on a regional basis. But, of course, in some regions, this issue is very strongly raised. I'm sure you gave me a very good idea!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U90	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The question is perhaps a little more comprehensive, but the interest is great. In autumn, we together handed over a draft decision on the proposal to the Government of the Republic to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language. The question is, how are we doing with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U92	Thank you. I think your handover has gone down in history, it was very spirited, excellent. How's that going? I believe that our experts are on the best level, especially in the Language Council, which includes Birute Klaas-Lang and other very distinguished professionals from the university. They'll put together their best knowledge and propose a solution. As has already been said here today on several occasions, there have been various working groups, various initiatives, a number of interesting language working documents have been drawn up. I have a meeting with them on Thursday, so they'll offer. But the aim is to introduce the document to the wider public and, of course, to the Riigikogu in the first half of next year. All these development plans should get here in this rhythm. Strategic planning has foreseen a broader debate to be launched in the first half of 2020. That is a very ambitious wish. And one part of this work, as the Riigikogu has foreseen, is to draw up work plans in very specific areas, such as the subject of the same language of instruction or the subject of support for students.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U93	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Is there a desire to open negotiations? Yes, please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U94	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Minister, thank you very much. From your answers we learned that the problem with non-Estonian children studying in Estonian schools came as a surprise to the Ministry. I admit that I have been dealing with this issue since autumn and that I have already shared these issues in October. And it's a problem that schools have been dealing with. My own school, or Järve School, which now only works as a primary school, is in serious trouble because 124 of 320 students need language support. A particular problem is the lowest level of school, i.e. primary school pupils, as the proportion of Russian-speaking children has increased in the last two or three years. These results, which are now published on the PISA test or come from our upper secondary schools, are from a time when these children were relatively few. Even in schools in Ida-Virumaa, more attention could be paid to such students, as the children who studied in Estonian schools were often highly motivated and their parents supported them much more. But now the number of children growing in so-called regular families has increased. And there's a lot of home support missing. And there is also a lack of opportunities at school level. Schools just can't do it if there's a lot of kids. If they're few, they'll be fine. They ask for support and receive support from Innove, and less often from the Pathfinder. But it's complicated. The nature of the problem is not only that the Ministry has not paid very much attention to it. The problem is also that there is no systemic approach. It's been forgotten. And not only schools have been forgotten, but kindergartens have also been forgotten. The same problem is actually the case in Estonian-language kindergartens, where more and more Russian-speaking children come. There is also a need for special support. There are situations where children need support, because really, if you don't understand the language, if you don't have support at home, then you can't do math or science. This causes frustration, and then there are also behavioral problems. In order not to get this far, language training is needed quickly, immediately. My same Järve School sent a question to the Ministry. I didn't get an answer immediately. I got a reminder. The answer was, unfortunately, that you were very good, go on. But they actually asked for support. Learn to teach the Estonian language as soon as possible to children who have just come to school, who are in primary classes, in first and second grades. Because then there will be no learning difficulties. Unfortunately, this support is not being provided. I'm afraid the Minister didn't hear me very well right now, but maybe he'll read in the verbatim report that I really hope that the Ministry will be seriously and quickly, not in a year or two or three. This problem has, once again, become very acute in the last few years. The statistics so far do not reflect the current situation. The situation in schools is catastrophic. When you go to these schools and ask teachers and directors, the answer is that they are in trouble. They're in trouble, they're worried, they need support. And now it would be necessary for the Ministry to provide this support, if necessary, to provide money, if necessary, for guidance. But counseling alone isn't enough, really. There needs to be a systematic programme, a systemic approach, support in the form of services. However, services actually mean the need for extra money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U95	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. Would the Minister like a final word? No, I don't. The answer to this question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U96	We will go to today's fifth item on the agenda, namely the inquiry on waste management submitted by members of the Riigikogu Yoko Alender, Erkki Keldo, Hele Everaus, Urmas Kruuse, Mart Võrguship, Annely Akkermann, Andrus Seed, Ants Laaneots, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi and Heiki Kranich on 6 November 2019. I ask Yoko Alender, a member of the Riigikogu, as the representative of the speakers of this panel!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U97	Thank you. Honourable Vice President! Honourable ministers! Colleagues Members of the Riigikogu! It is a question of culture that happens to what I am creating, what is beyond my consumption, what is the effect of my behaviour, the result of consumption. Today we are talking about the circular economy. We have heard more and more about climate change recently, and the circular economy also has a role to play here. I think one of the most important aspects is that each of us really has to deal with the consequences of our domestic consumption. Psychologists are convinced that determination and willpower must also be used to analyze their behaviour. However, in order to change habits and, for example, to shape good habits in the sorting and recovery of waste, it is important that there is an environment conducive to these sustainable choices. Unfortunately, the quantities of municipal waste in Estonia have increased steadily since 2012. There has been a significant increase since 2017 in municipal waste disposal and a reduction in the energy recovery of municipal waste. There have also been no positive developments in the collection by species. This direction is regrettable and contrary to the objectives of sustainable development. At the same time, the Ministry has found a way to trick statistics. With a few moves in accounting, the quantities of waste processed in Estonia were doubled. There has actually been no real change in collection by type, and the problem in my opinion is that there is no incentive to sort waste. Consequently, there is a desire to find answers to the following questions: How does the Minister intend to create motivation to sort waste in homes, businesses and public institutions? What concrete steps will be taken to create competitive and efficient waste management? When will the quality of the service provided by recovery organisations be reviewed? This is often a concern for the local government. And the problem is also that the companies that own the storage area are cheating on pollution charges, which has been heard from the press. Is this a wider problem than the cases that are known and how has the state identified such cases? And how are we trying to ensure that companies with storage areas do not deceive the country with pollution charges, as the press estimates has happened? We are talking about cases in Tallinn. We're asking for answers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U98	Thank you. I ask you to answer the question, Minister of the Environment Rene Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U99	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, there are a few words about the so-called trickery with which the Ministry of the Environment has doubled the recovery of Estonian waste. As I have said before, yes, I have not denied that a change in the calculation methodology was purely necessary in accounting terms. And the fact is that whoever the minister is, whether I or anyone else, if we had not changed this methodology, we would hypothetically have received a fine. This might have meant 100 million euros to Estonia, as a former member of the Riigikogu pointed out, talking about a possible fine for the European Union. I think it's the only right thing to do. On that day, if the time had come to pay the fine, they would look at the minister and ask if we had the opportunity to avoid it and why nothing was done. And right now, this step was done to avoid it. Yes, it is true that we will win five years in order to have more time to make the waste management work. But I'm not ashamed of it. I continue to think that this was the right step. In seven months, it was not possible to lead Estonian waste management to the point that we would have met this objective by applying another method. Now I'm going to the questions. The first question to be asked is this: 'How do you intend to create motivation to sort waste in homes, businesses and public institutions? " Yes, such a good answer would be that we could all be motivated by clean nature and a clean living environment, but unfortunately it is true that it does not work alone. From time to time, you also need a whip and maybe a few people or businesses are also attracted to the carrot. What could be the steps we plan to take in the Ministry of the Environment? In itself, yes, it is the right way to deal with this issue. We have problems in this area, and that is what we are working for in order to move forward and achieve better results. One thing we are working very hard on is making separate collection of biodegradable waste mandatory. The carrot side of this obligation will be to provide free bio-waste containers to people or to some extent encourage their procurement. This is what we are currently dealing with: we are reviewing the amounts available, and we are also considering the option of granting support to private houses for the purchase of bio-composters in the same amount as those granted for the purchase of containers. Our goal is not to force people to put bio-waste in containers. If there's a way to compost, you have to give it a chance. When it comes to composters that meet all the requirements, this procedure can work in such a way that the local authority ensures that there is a composter, so it is possible for a person to compost his own biowaste. And if we can get this bio-waste collection to work, I dare say we've already done half the work, because the big cities Tallinn and Tartu are actually giving a significant amount of our waste and the bio-waste is what is ruining them. In 2020, the Environmental Inspectorate's work plan also includes a review of the packaging system: how packaging organisations have built their own network, whether it meets the requirements. It is being dealt with very vigorously and if it does not meet the requirements, sanctions will follow. Perhaps some organisations will have to withdraw their license if they have not been able to comply with the requirements for as long as we have used the system in Estonia. One thing that needs to be reviewed is that local governments do not easily exempt people from joining organised waste management. When a person or company joins an organised waste shipment, it has the motivation to handle the waste as intended and not to shirk. In that case, hopefully we will have less waste in the forest. One of the issues we are looking at is the revision of storage charges and the fees for the mass incineration of waste. Obviously, the fact is that these fees need to be increased. Speaking to people, it has often turned out that they consider it a good bargain to give away mixed municipal waste. On the one hand, people are always against raising all kinds of taxes, but I've been asking for it a lot over the last seven months and talking to people and actually admitting to each other that I'm not motivated to sort anything out. Sometimes it even sounds condescending: garbage disposal is so cheap, this two or three euri doesn't motivate me to sort it. Certainly, higher remuneration for the disposal of mixed municipal waste is a tool that, together with the separate disposal of bio-waste, could motivate people to sort more. At the same time, the disposal of bio-waste must be at the minimum cost or free of charge and the collection of bio-waste should also be reflected in reports on the generation of mixed municipal waste. Of course, we need to move forward according to the principle that the most advantageous thing is to give away waste that is reused and recycled, secondly, those that are put into energy use, and the third, most expensive, must be landfilling. We cannot miss the fact that people are constantly needed to educate waste mothers every day. We also have such examples, for example from Sweden, where this system is generally very well functioning, but attempts have been made to prevent people from being educated for some time and not to keep the picture on the subject of how it is right to handle waste, so there must be quite a rapid decrease in the percentage of recycling and sorting of waste. Now question number two: 'What concrete steps do you intend to take as a minister in order to create competitive and functional waste management? ' I would say that quite good action has been taken and that there is progress. Let's see how different procedures exist today with regard to Paikre waste plant, as well as Uikla and Jõelähtm. The Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board have just become new leaders. The Environmental Inspectorate, although the current leader, was a former Acting Actor, has been in charge for a few months now. The Head of the Environmental Board is in office last December, but basically this year. We have good cooperation with both leaders and both have a clear desire to get things right in the waste management. Let me give you a few examples of what steps have been taken. At this point, I would also like to thank the Riigikogu, which, with a great deal of support, adopted the so-called KOTKAS draft, which makes it possible to apply the deposit requirement to companies that deal with the waste to be deposited. When we dealt with it and this proposal came, many waste companies wanted it. They have worked in the market in the way one of the right entrepreneurs has to work, in compliance with the law. I am pleased that, with the help of the Riigikogu, this has now been included in the law, and I believe that in the future, the deposit requirement for stored waste will reduce such irregularities as we have in the case of concrete and silical silk, for example. If, however, an undertaking with a dubious reputation has to provide this guarantee for all the quantities that it intends to store on the building permit, and 15% more than anything after possible handling, I think it will lead to the thinking of a company with some bad intentions. It will apply to new companies from the beginning of next year. For those who have valid waste permits, the deposit claim shall enter into force in 2021. Of course, cooperation with local authorities also needs to be reviewed and improved, but I see progress in this too. The Environmental Inspectorate is planning to recruit one person who will only deal with local authorities, walk around them and educate them and provide support. After the administrative reform, municipalities have become bigger and stronger, and I hope that they will also be able to hold environmental specialists who will assist and cooperate with the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board. One major problem is construction and demolition waste, their handling. This is where action is taken to bring the demolishing of buildings to the point where, before the building is demolished, the demolisher would have a permit, where he has written to the local government, where exactly the waste is to be delivered and how to handle it. We're gonna get there again so we don't have those concrete and silky places. We also intend to ask the Environmental Inspectorate, within the framework of the new Waste Act, some additional options for better monitoring, for example, to set up track cameras. Here are some procedural aspects also, could have the opportunity to do more things for yourself. While cooperation with the police is good for the Environmental Inspectorate, some rights may be transferred to the Environmental Inspectorate in order to better organise the work. The third question now: 'Is and when will the quality of service provided by recycling organisations be reviewed? ' Very topical question! The Ministry of the Environment has and I myself have turned to all recycling organisations and asked for information on the location of all the different containers in Estonia. This year the Environmental Inspectorate has charted the locations of containers in Ida-Virumaa. The fact is that there were problems, and this is currently being dealt with and the parties concerned are being informed that the container park must be brought into line with the law. And we are also working to ensure that the removal of containers is timely and that there are no such blockages as we have seen from time to time in the summer. This, of course, brings us back to human education. When it comes to waste companies, recycling companies, it turns out that the big problem is that people put things in the wrong containers. This is a serious problem. If the cardboard container still has toilets or sinks or beds with reform floors, this is clearly not the place. People need to be educated and explained. The Ministry of the Environment, in cooperation with Praxis and Harju Municipality Government, is in the process of working towards promoting collection by species and mapping these concerns with people. Now the fourth question: 'Is cheating on pollution charges by companies that own the storage area a wider problem? " It is true that this is a problem. When you look at problem areas, such as the Paikre case, for example, the Paikre case is specifically the interlayers. And there are some other waste plants that are currently being dealt with. It is true that we are talking about quite large sums of money, certainly millions, if not tens of millions, in which the country may or has already suffered damage. But these procedures are now in operation and life will show you how to proceed. My clear message has been given to the Environmental Inspectorate: the Ministry of the Environment fully supports, and financially supports, the bringing to light of such waste shocks. It has also been a question of whether there are resources in the budget to be put forward in the case of possible trials. Our message has clearly been that, if necessary, the Ministry of the Environment will help us find this money so that the large garbage disposals will not be left unpunished under any circumstances. There must be no failure to act in court and no dispute on the grounds that the State does not have the resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U100	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you, but the time for reply is up. If the members of the Riigikogu now have a question for you, you can answer the fifth question within an unlimited period of time. Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U101	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I was listening to you, and did I get it right that when you answered the first question, you said that people would be given free containers? When could this happen, and to whom and to collect what?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U102	That's right! But if it's really free, it depends on how we have the resources. But the desire is that we support the purchase of bio-waste containers and, if possible, the purchase of composters, in part. We're hoping we can take it off next year. It would be good if it was in the first half of the year, but definitely next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U103	You don't want to answer question five?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U104	Well, I'll answer question five, too. 'How has the State established that companies with a storage site are not cheating on the state to pay pollution charges? ' Environmental permits are issued by the Environmental Board. The Environmental Board regularly inspects those companies that receive and handle waste, inspects their reports and in general they find anomalies. The Environmental Inspectorate is the body that carries out physical checks and needs to be given more capacity to educate local authorities. As I said before, an inspector will be recruited to deal with local governments. You just have to check more. The trend has been quite good in this sense, since the Ministry has strongly stated that we will not tolerate garbage disposal and will do everything we can to put an end to trashing, such as concrete waste. There's been a lot of information coming from so-called whistleblowers. This is very important information and this trend is good. Existing suspicious places need to be drilled and checked to see if the coatings are as thick as they have to be, if there is one meter, if the project is planned, etc. That's what's being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U105	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U106	Thank you, good vice chairman. First of all, Minister, thank you for your substantive and polite answers. If only we had more ministers like that in the government! But here's my question. Harri Moora, programme manager of the Stockholm Institute for the Environment, claims that monitoring in the field of waste management is weak. He also says that if in other countries waste management and the development of the necessary infrastructure are planned at much national level, we do not have a national waste management plan for infrastructure solutions that concern locations. There's no such plan as the one provided by the state. And then there is no certainty and willingness for waste managers to invest in less profitable solutions; there is a combination of existing and cheapest solutions. This, according to Harri Moora, is also beyond the recycling target. Do you agree with this view?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U107	Thank you. I kind of agree. When we come to the fourth question of whether fraud with pollution charges is widespread, the fact is that we also lacked a bit of the supposed interpretation of the law by both the companies and the Environmental Inspectorate and the Environmental Board. The problem areas need to be reviewed and dealt with. Well, that's the same Paikre example we were talking about. The Paikre case has now passed the trial, and the Environmental Board won it, but in this context there has also been an argument as to whether any of the principles were changed in half the time as to whether or not they were allowed in the past. In other words, it must also be clear to everyone that there are situations where we are at some point in court with entrepreneurs and whether or not something was allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U108	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Do the heirs want to open negotiations? There is no wish to open negotiations. Thank you, colleagues. The answer to the inquiry is complete. That has been the answer to all of today's enquiries.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U109	We can move on to the free microphone. Everyone now has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U110	Good President and few colleagues. I need to talk to you today. Something strange happened in this hall on 26 June 1996: a few days after Midsummer Day, the Riigikogu was called in extraordinary times and a law was passed that threw pharmacies on the table of the wholesale companies. Two readings were done in one day. For 48 members. The Liv who stood here at the time admitted that we were entering the ranks of minorities with only Belgium and England, and that the draft could lead to an appreciation of medicines and the emergence of pharmacy chains. That's what happened. After that, pharmacies began to breed like mushrooms after rain. That's the hard end for the wholesalers and their pharmacy chains. At the same time, a massive closure of land pharmacies began. Five years ago, a new law was passed in this Chamber, which decided to cut the wings of wholesale companies. And now, five years later, let's try a full turn. On October 24, the pharmacy businessman, Linnamäe's business partner, Vendelin, donated EUR 100000 to the Centre Party. This is a very large amount: 2/3 of the party's income in the last quarter. Reason: a decision made on emotion. On 8 November, the head of one of Europe's largest wholesale pharmaceutical companies, Phoenix Group, sent a letter to Minister of Foreign Affairs Reinsalu, Minister of Social Affairs Kiige and Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee to Mr Möldr, calling for an amendment to the law that will be in force on 1 April. And we will be loyal to the masters in Mannheim. Last week, a good colleague, Priit Sibul, introduced a bill aimed at abolishing the law that cuts the wings of wholesale companies. Today, the Committee on Social Affairs discussed this, and tomorrow is the first reading in the big hall. This time, not 20 days, but only 10 days will be proposed for improvement. In the same way as in 1996, the turbo mode has been re-entered. We've been here with you for over six months, and now before Christmas we're going to rush for some reason. Why? Since this is not a government bill, there is no need for planning or impact analysis. Not only are we throwing overboard also good legislative practice. The draft coming to this hall tomorrow will be opposed by both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister of Social Affairs, both the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice, both the Medicines Agency and the pharmacists of the university. Ladies and gentlemen, This thing smells bad. It doesn't just have to be honest, it has to look honest. Cut me to pieces, it doesn't seem fair to me to have this fast-track action. Maybe I'm wrong. Perhaps during the last six months, the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and other leaders of this bill have had no talks with the directors of the pharmaceutical wholesale companies or their representatives. God forbid it'd be that way if it were controlled! I hope that the law enforcement authorities have kept an eye on this important issue. It is the interest and responsibility of all of us to ensure that people get the medicine they need as soon as possible. We need to ensure that the choice of drugs is much greater than today and that the price is as favourable as possible. It is true, at the same time, that we must ensure that our entrepreneurs, too, do not tie their throats, as is often the case in recent times. Should we really have so many pharmacies, I ask. As a representative of the Tartu and Jõgeva counties, I can assure you that there will be no problem in my constituency after 1 April. In the meantime, I recall the interview given to Sakala by President Kaljulaid on 21 January 2017. Its title was as follows: "The purchase of laws is not okay, even if the law to be bought is noble in substance." Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-16_U111	Thank you. There are no more requests to speak within the free microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 5.52 p.m.
