ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U1	Honourable colleagues, honourable Riigikogu, good morning! If you will now focus once again on the implementation of our excellent sitting and will continue to talk about each other afterwards, I am delighted to open the session of the 9th working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries, if that's what you want. I don't see any wish to pass on any preliminary requests or enquiries. Then we'll do a presence check, please. 75 members of the Riigikogu are present, 26. That is enough to go to the debate on our agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U2	Today we have an important national issue on the agenda, 'Payment system', how to proceed? ' debate. This is a debate on a crucial national issue initiated by the Estonian Central Erakonna Group. I'll show you what this thing is supposed to look like. First, we have reports. The presentation of Kersti Sarapuu, Chairman of the Centre Party Group, will be up to 15 minutes, questions and answers will be up to 15 minutes. The presentation by Dmitri Jegorov, Deputy Chancellery of Taxation and Customs Policy of the Ministry of Finance, will be up to 20 minutes, questions and answers up to 20 minutes. Then there is Indrek Neivelt's presentation for up to 20 minutes, questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask a total of up to two questions to the rapporteurs. In short, for all the waitresses, each has two questions. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. All members of the Riigikogu who wish to do so, as well as representatives of committees and political groups, may take part in speeches. At the request of the Estonian Centre Party Group, I propose to the Riigikogu that the representatives of the political groups first appear. So either a call from the remote, as we customarily do, 5 + 3 minutes, or a speech on the spot for 2 minutes. At the end of the debate, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The Centre Party has also proposed to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 2 p.m. But I think the Bureau will put this to a vote when we are so far away and it is clear that we will not be able to manage the planned time. So if you dear friends don't mind, we'll start working on the first point. And I will give the opportunity to present a presentation to Kersti Sarapuu, the chairman of the Central Party Group. Call 15 minutes, questions and answers in total 15 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and guests! Today's debate in this Chamber of Riigikogu is largely due to the invitation of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas to discuss our tax system and tax burden more widely. The Centre Party Group supports this idea and that is why we have brought the issue of taxes to the Riigikogu today as an important national issue. The current moment is suitable for tax discussions for several reasons. Firstly, the draft state budget for next year has reached such a stage that even the most sceptical member of the opposition will realise that the purpose of this debate is not to create a background for the last moment of tax increases, but the government will respect its promise that we will have a tax peace. Although this is a seemingly simple promise, it has never been so basic in Estonia. Secondly, the next elections are far enough away and do not hinder the debate. We saw very well what happened to Kaja Kallas when he came up with the idea of losing social tax before the elections. The idea was, but we didn't see it on the electoral platform of the Reform Party, and we didn't hear any more about it. Kaja Kallas explained this by having three former finance ministers in the party. [[???S. Kallas täpsustab: 'Viis.'???]] Five even. I certainly do not believe that such ideas should be put off the table immediately. Even if you're a former finance minister, you shouldn't have the right to send your party chairman's idea into a trash can. It is possible that there is a right here for the experienced politician Siim Kallas, who said that the elections could not be conducted with a scientific tract, but that one dominant would be put to the fore in the campaign. However, I cannot agree with his next sentence in the same interview that only if you are in a position in the government can you come up with a whole package of tax changes. However, I encourage the opposition to come out with its package. It is also perfectly permissible to say that the current system is ideal and there is no need to change anything, but in this case, it is not worth asking why funding in one area or another is exactly like this, not higher. Thirdly, we need to understand that the world is changing around us every day and that the goals are changing. Toomas Hendrik Ilves rightly said that what has brought us here will not take us further. That is what Raul Eamets has said. Estonia's tax burden is one of the lowest in the European Union. In 2018, the tax burden in Estonia was 33%, while the European Union averages 40% of GDP. The tax burden is lower than us in Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria and Romania. Estonia's tax burden will remain at 33.2% in the next two years and will fall to 32.7% by 2022. At the moment, we have a lot of help from European Union funds, which we have financed various investments, but we cannot rely on it for the rest of our lives. At the same time, Estonia's government expenditure as a share of GDP is much lower than on average in the European Union. In 2019, government expenditure in Estonia was 39% and in the European Union an average of 46%. The main difference comes from our low social and health costs. As a small country, we can indeed manage things more efficiently, but there is a border somewhere. The second reading of the 2020 state budget also showed that we have many sectors that need additional resources. When we talk about the opposition's amendments, we would not oppose their content if they had a specific source of cover, but they do not exist at the moment. The state budget is nothing more than the budget of one family; this family is the people of Estonia. Like every family budget, the state budget has revenue and expenditure and balance. The equation is in place. If we want more services, we have to contribute more. There's just no other way. In this respect, the state budget has a high fixed share of expenditure of over 80%. When tax reform was initiated in Estonia that was again independent, one of the objectives of uniform income tax was to ensure effective tax collection, because the independent state did not have an experienced authority to collect taxes. The absence of this would have led to a tax gap and an increase in the share of the underground economy. It was hoped that lower taxes would discipline people better to pay taxes and that the simplicity of the system would also allow for more effective control. A simpler system meant fewer exceptions and tax holes, so the tax administration was able to concentrate its forces. Thus, it was a conscious choice of a re-independenced Estonia, which no one is questioning, but we must ask ourselves whether it will bring us closer to the Nordic countries. I believe that Estonia's ambitions have changed over the years, but in politics, tax issues have so far been viewed in a rather one-sided way. Although social prosperity has grown rapidly, it has spread very differently between people and different social groups. The Prime Minister has emphasised that Estonia's new goal must be a social balance, which will lead to sustainable economic growth. The economist at the London Institute of Fiscal Studies, Stuart Adam, has pointed out that a uniform income tax system limits the way the government can reallocate revenue. However, the complexity of the Western European and US income tax systems is often attributed to complexity, not to a number of rates, but to tax exemptions and exemptions. The more complicated the system is, the more specific provisions exist there. Thus, for example, in the early 1990s, individual taxpayers spent a total of 3 billion hours dealing with taxes in America, making the average time spent per taxpayer 27 hours a year. However, Estonia has been a strong IT-state in the world and more than 98% of income tax returns are submitted online. The additional level of taxation is no obstacle to the computer program. For years, Estonia has been among the most unequal countries in the European Union in terms of income distribution. This is demonstrated by the Gini index, which is best suited to characterise social inequality and stratification in societies. The lower the Gini index value, the more equal the economic and social status of society. The Gini index of developed countries is mostly in the range of 20 to 30% and the index of developing countries is in the range of 40 to 60%. According to Eurostat, the Gini index in Estonia was 31.7% last year. In recent years, the value of the index has declined steadily, i.e. inequality has decreased. For example, in 2015, Estonia's figure was 34.8. On the one hand, we can be proud, but unfortunately, the Nordics are still far ahead of us in terms of a more equal distribution of income. In Finland, the corresponding figure was 25.9 in the previous year and 27 in Sweden. However, the lowest inequality in the European Union is found in Slovakia, Slovenia and the Czech Republic, where the Gin index coefficient is between 23% and 24%. Although Estonians always like to compare themselves with Latvians, Estonia is quite similar to Slovenia. Both countries are re-independence countries in the early 1990s. Both countries also joined the European Union at the same time in 2004. It is true that Slovenia already exported three times more abroad in the times of Yugoslavia, and the entrepreneurs were self-sufficient from the 1960s, which ensured a better start-up position for Slovenia and a smaller fall in the asset capitalist transition period. Nevertheless, in addition to significant economic growth, both countries are at the forefront of European countries in terms of both low levels of corruption and social and infrastructure coverage and employment. However, one difference is the tax system in which Slovenia uses a 5-step personal tax system. In 2007, the Institute of Economic Research in Slovenia carried out a study to determine how the transition to a uniform income tax would affect the Slovenian economy. In addition to the current income tax system, uniform income tax was modelled at 22% and 25%, and graduated income tax systems at 15% and 25%, 15%, 25% and 35%, and 16%, 27% and 41%. The simulation showed that the impact of changes in the tax system on gross domestic product is not significant. While the baseline scenario envisaged an increase of 25,19% of GDP by 2025 compared to the base period, 22% of the alternative scenarios achieved a better result. Similarly, the amendments introduced by the introduction of a uniform income tax have been examined in the German example. It was found that even income tax is accompanied by certain positive effects, but their impact on Germany is not as important as it was for the Eastern European countries released from Soviet influence in the late 1990s. There has also been any debate on income tax on the tip of the table, stating that people do not want it. America has studied how to change the attitude towards a uniform income tax after further lectures on its operation. Thus, in 1996 the flat-rate income tax subsidy in Austin fell from 44% to 33% after the test group had received the entire weekend's tax training. The Income Tax Act is one of the most amended laws in Estonia, but after the introduction of a uniform income tax in 1994, the tax rate remained at the same level for a long time. After the reform of corporate tax in 2000, the debate on the change in the rate of income tax became active. At the beginning of 2001, Finance Minister Siim Kallas suggested that the tax rate should be reduced to 20%. Much was said about how all recipients of wage income will benefit from this reform when the income tax rate was reduced. This has been the case in reality, but the size of the victory has depended heavily on the size of the salary. The gradual reduction over the years led to a situation where the person who earned 500 euros in monthly wages finally won 155 euros a year, while the winner of 5,000 euros was already more than 3,000 euros. Thus, the victory of the high-wage earners was disproportionate. The income difference was 10 times, but the change won 20 times. That was our understanding of a fair tax system. The same thing was pointed out by Associate Professor Eve Parts of the University of Tartu already in 2004, when she stated in the article 'The impact of Estonian income tax reform on income differences in households' that the tax reform that is being carried out is beneficial in absolute terms for all earners, but at the same time there are some contradictions with the country's macroeconomic objectives and bottlenecks. In his article, he wrote that a reduction in the rate of income tax is more beneficial for people with higher incomes, which increases relative income differences and creates tensions in society that increase instability and hinder economic growth. In macroeconomic terms, increasing the income of wealthier workers will result in additional pressure on import expenditure and on the current account deficit. It should also be recalled that the increase in VAT from 18% to 20% also remained during this period. The problem of rising consumption taxes is their regressivity, which is why poorer households pay a relatively larger share of their income in the form of these taxes. Such an increase in consumption taxes would seem to justify the introduction of graduated income tax to at least pass the tax burden on higher-income taxpayers. Similarly, the increase in the share of consumption taxes in the tax structure and their regressivity indicate that individuals with lower incomes have overall lost their purchasing power in the course of the income tax reform. Of course, the tax system is not limited to income tax in Estonia. The system is a whole, and you have to look at it that way. Different ideas for change have been examined over time. For example, property taxes have also been mentioned, which are virtually non-existent in Estonia compared to the European Union average. If we look at the overview as a whole, we see that the tax receipts as a percentage of GDP are the least. By the way, French President Chirac has also said that you see that we do want European subsidies, but we do not impose corporate tax. And, of course, climate neutrality is very important. If we see the footprint that has caused climate damage around the world, then perhaps we should also think about how to tax different costs, whether packaging or other areas. But I think that all these things will be told today by very good experts, Mr Egorov and Mr Neivelt, who will dismantle all such good tax opportunities or practices. In any case, the Centre Party will develop its tax package by next spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U4	Thank you. I will tell the rapporteurs so much that this model, which has been agreed, does not provide for an extension of the report. If, in the case of speeches, we give three minutes more, the reports will leave it 20 or 15 minutes, as agreed. But there are, of course, questions for the rapporteur, and I would also like to remind you that we have 15 minutes for the rapporteur and that each of us can ask two questions for all the rapporteurs. So make your plans up to it. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U5	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Yesterday we were in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you were sitting there too, and we had a meeting with Eesti Pank. Changes to the pension system are known to move money out of the pension system. It is not a question of whether, but of the extent to which taxes must be increased in order to cover future pension costs if the replacement rate falls below the current level of 40%. But what I'm asking is that this tax increase plan still has a negative side, it's price increases. And Estonia has been here for quite a long time at the top of the European price list. Do not say that you are not inciting it with taxes, that we are taking gas excise duty, which has risen for several years in a row and will also rise next year, and the promise of reducing excise duties on fuel remains only a promise. Do you also think about how to mitigate the price increase in your tax increase plans? This is precisely about the price increases for the vulnerable and pensioners for food, heating, home expenses, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U6	The questioners, all right, there's a minute for everyone to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U7	Thank you, Mr Sõerd. Actually, if you noticed and listened to today's report, we're not talking about raising taxes. Today is not about raising taxes. We should now look at how we can organise the tax system, so that our economy is sustainable in the coming years, and that, if we really lose out on the European Union's subsidies, we can support, develop and stand up for the well-being of people in all the same areas. So there wasn't really any tax increases here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U8	Anneli Ott, next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Most of your speech was about national taxes, but the local government also plays a very important role in organising the lives of Estonian people. Here it is uncommon to raise the issue that in the Local Tax Act § 5 there are six different taxes that local governments could impose. How do you feel about expanding this list? And from time to time, the idea of tourism tax has also been raised in particular during the administrative reform. What is your opinion, does this tax make sense, or is there a firm argument against it, and it does not deserve a debate at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U10	Thank you, good questioner! In fact, having been the head of local self-government for nearly 11 years, I have seen very well how the local government's income base is formed. The main part of this is personal income tax, to some extent land tax. Of course, in rural areas, especially if we exclude Tallinn, Pärnu, Tartu, where parking fees, advertising fees, boat taxes etc. have been applied, local governments do not have much of their own revenue opportunities. By the way, as proposals, Tallinn, Pärnu and Tartu have raised the same tourism tax. We see how much local governments invest in the infra, that, above all, their own people, but also tourists, are able to visit tourist sites and tourist attractions, as well as the roads and streets have been fixed to make it good for tourists. So I see no contradiction at all if the local authority wanted to introduce a tourism tax. In particular, I see this in the larger cities and centres. Of course, smaller cities, like Paide, Võru and Põlva, do exactly the same. This tourism tax would certainly be precisely the kind that is targeted at the area in which investment, remediation, etc. could be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U11	Thank you. Ivar Padar, be my guest!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U12	Thank you. Madame waitress! You spoke a few words here about the European Union and the European Union budget. Now, before spring and the Central Party tax plan arrives, there will be autumn and winter. There will also be negotiations on the next budget period for the European Union. Empty bags don't stand up. Perhaps it is clear that the European Union budget needs own resources, revenue and taxes. What are the proposals of the Centre Party in this context? What kind of pan-European taxes should support the new budget negotiations? What would be taxes that would be reasonable across Europe and acceptable to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U13	Thank you, dear Ivar Padar. We have only just started on this subject. By the way, we really did have a tax morning like this last Friday, where we tried first to discuss tax issues in groups, different tax packages. But until then, as far as the European Union's taxes are concerned, we have not yet arrived. As has been said, there is indeed both winter and spring ahead, so we will certainly reach out to these issues as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U14	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U15	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I agree with you that there are various tax ideas that must be boldly put forward. This idea was certainly borne by the abolition of the social tax raised by Kaja Kallas. I would remind you here that in February 2015, the Centre Party brought a collective appeal to the Riigikogu for a minimum wage of EUR 1000, and in May 2015, it was still under a major debate in the Social Committee, which I think was also an important national issue in preparation. The subject's gone after. I'll ask you how you're going on with this. One idea is that this EUR 1000 should become a tax-free limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U16	Thank you, Jüri Jaanson! I will start with what you said that the subject of Kaja Kallas' debate was knocked off the table too quickly and maybe we should have discussed it more. I think that we should certainly have debated, just as we are throwing a bunch of such questions into the air today. But first of all, I would also like to say that yes, the Centre Party has always believed that healthcare should be solidarity-based, and of course we are not currently very supportive of a health system based on private insurance. But, of course, we still believe that we need to switch to progressive income tax. We already have two levels: we have a zero tax rate and we also have a 20% tax rate. From there we should move forward and, of course, from this basis, if we have moved on to, for example, the third and fourth levels, we would definitely talk about limiting the ceiling on social tax. But as far as this EUR 1000 is concerned, I think we are all moving towards it. This has really not been achieved yet, but we are definitely moving in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U17	Thank you. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U18	Thank you, President-in-Office. And thank you, first speaker, thank you for a very good presentation. It has been said for a long time that tax talk is a sin in itself, but it is certainly the governance of taxes and, as you yourself said, the tax system is one whole. But I'd like to ask a rhetorical question from the Jüri Ratas Forum. Is it really possible for a country to save itself rich in a rapidly developing and challenging environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U19	Thank you, Marko, for a very good question. I think that we really do see it in our own country, that savings should be paid attention, but it is also clear that we cannot save for infinity. Consequently, we still have to deal with the fact that our tax system is, first of all, more equal at the moment, it is a uniform one, and that it is easier to control, consider and carry it out. But we must definitely go to differentiation, even regionally, to tax differentiation. Because really, it is clear that we are not able to save enough so that we can cover all the goals that we have set for our country. In life, after all, saving is not the only goal. It's a beautiful proverb that you don't have to be afraid not of big expenses, but of small incomes. So, in fact, we should think about the development of our economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U20	Thank you. Riho Breivel, next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I have, in principle, already received a bit of an answer from the previous answer, but still: how can there still be a differentiation of the tax system in peripheral countries to grow and increase entrepreneurship? Also, how can a matter such as small companies often face dividends taxation be resolved, such as a small fraud just trying to take out their own costs instead of taxes? How do you solve these things? In the light of all this, how can we still increase our small production and production in places in the future? The same is the case with accommodation services, do you differentiate these taxes, say, in metropolitan areas and places? If I could have your vision of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U22	Thank you for a very good question. In fact, this has been a topic of speech in recent years, absolutely everywhere in rural areas, where we have visited businesses and institutions. We also have quite good examples from Europe. If we take the attitude towards small businesses in Latvia, for example, there have been programmes for small businesses in several cases, where, for example, taxation has taken place in such a way that, if there is a company with up to 11 people, the tax rate has been 7% and this 7% is absolutely total taxes Small businesses will then be able to develop more normally. And when the turnover reaches a certain level, they move on to a group of other companies. Of course, very many questions have been raised by the VAT of the same accommodation facilities, which is indeed 9% at present. And if we now look at the accommodation facilities in rural areas and look at Tallinn, Pärnu and Tartu, for example, we will see how the occupancy of accommodation facilities in these municipalities is very high and their profit margins still vary to millions and perhaps more. At the same time, we see how the turnover of rural accommodation establishments from all guest houses, hotels, motels, etc. is really so minimal that they really justify this 9% VAT. But why not apply the distinctions here, too. So it's actually very wide, and we should discuss how we're going to proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U23	Thank you. Now, the story is that the 15 minutes we agreed on are coming to an end. This means that I would give one more question a chance and then we would go over to the next reports. This question is open to Annely Akkermann. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U24	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Thank you very much, waitress. We didn't get a lot of new ideas from your presentation. But, as we know, when more taxes need to be collected, the economy can also grow and be revived, because every time money changes ownership, taxes have to be paid to the Treasury. You didn't exactly answer Jüri Jaanson's question about the EUR 1000 minimum wage, which would exponentially increase the tax revenue to the state budget. Have you put your plan in the drawer? Or how are you now thinking of achieving this as a government department?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U25	Thank you, dear Annely. Since time is up, I'm just saying, I haven't put it in a drawer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U26	Thank you to the esteemed waitress. No further questions can be asked to this waitress in accordance with our agreement. I ask for the next presentation of Dmitri Egorov, Deputy Secretary of Taxation and Customs Policy of the Ministry of Finance. His presentation is for 20 minutes and 20 minutes for questions. So that's the story. Mr. Egorov, the chair is yours.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U27	Good morning. I was asked to cover a topic such as taxation of the digital economy. I hope that, after this presentation, the Members of our country will be, if not the most informed, just very informed on this matter. It is also important to consider how quickly events in this area are developing. Tonight I am going to Paris to take part in a public debate with the private sector on this subject tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. So these are the most recent, recent questions in this area. After the presentation, there is also time for questions and they do not have to be limited to the taxation of the digital economy. A little history. This is the subject that the OECD, or International Centre for Tax Wisdom, launched in 2015. In fact, recommendations to amend the international taxation rules were issued in 2015. This was the only sub-issue that remained unfinished that year, because the appetites and interests of the different countries are very different and no agreement was reached. During the Presidency, Estonia itself presented it as one of the key topics in taxation in 2017. This was Estonia's own subject, we did not inherit it from previous presidencies, and it really took off in the world. Basically, every week, there was some kind of seminar or conference on this topic in the world. And actually, they're still happening because the subject is hot. In March 2018, the European Commission came up with two proposals for directives, but they did not get anywhere. I'll tell you a little bit more about their current status later. And the most recent knowledge is that the OECD Secretariat has offered a joint approach in autumn 2019 and is currently the most active one in the world to discuss what to do with digital economy taxation. What's the problem? The problem is that the international principles of taxing profits come from Germany in the mid-19th century. The basis for official rules is the decision of the League of Nations at the beginning of the 20th century, but it is understandable to everyone that these basic criteria, which are found there, are not absolutely relevant to the digital economy, i.e. where the company has its physical location and where its physical assets are located. Neither physical boundaries nor physical assets are relevant when a business is carried out online. The problem is that all national economies are actively involved in companies that do not exist at all from the point of view of the current tax rules in specific countries and then, of course, they do not have to pay profit tax. Quite quickly, some countries have hijacked this issue, turning it into a GAFA problem. GAFA is known to be Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple. Some countries still accuse them of optimising taxes too much and not paying them anywhere at all. The real problem, however, is that a large part of the activity actually takes place online, at a distance. And, as we know, there are no taxes on the Internet, no tax authorities, no Ministry of Finance. Consequently, somebody in the physical world must calculate these taxes and pay the real tax authorities. However, the countries are not satisfied with how this distribution is happening in the world today. International tax rules simply do not take account of companies operating globally who can operate anywhere from a distance, but pay taxes where it is most favourable to them. So what's the solution? During the presidency, Estonia offered to look at the concept of 'virtual permanent establishment'. In Estonia, this would be the case if the company was very active in the economy of some countries, although it might not be physically located there, it could pay tax on its profits there. Let's say that the company has developed a permanent establishment in Estonia or another country under jurisdiction because of its active activities. The European Commission has offered both a short-term and a long-term solution, because the countries really did very quickly call for some short-term, no viable solution. Short-term means essentially "sales tax" on turnover until a long-term solution is sought in the world. The long-term solution proposed by the European Commission is essentially similar to what Estonia offered in its programme during the Presidency. Let it be said that the short-term solution is what our media landscape, our media houses, is very keen to implement in Estonia today. You must be familiar with this debate. What does this proposal for a short-term solution by the European Commission mean? Digital services would be subject to a 3% turnover tax and would be the three tax objects on which that tax is levied. One is online advertising, i.e. the provision of advertising services on the Internet, regardless of who is the subscriber to the advertisement and who is the so-called indicator of the advertisement. What matters is who they show to. And if these are the people of Estonia to whom they are shown, then tax will have to be paid on this turnover. The second tax object is the combination of the buyer and the seller, i.e. the platform revenue from it. In order to understand who they are, I will bring, for example, our own known Bolt or Uber or Amazon. In other words, where there is a buyer or a customer and where there is a merchant or a service provider, the platform will generate revenue from their assembly. And the third object is the sale of user data. They say the data is new oil. At the moment, there is a huge problem with accounting and accounting that it is not given enough attention, but the data is actually a very valuable commodity. So if someone collects data about Estonian people and sells them to large corporations so that they can better sell advertising or design products, then the idea would be that this activity has taken place in Estonia and could also collect tax on it in Estonia. How, then, can the tax revenue collected be distributed? One cross-cutting proposal is to base itself on the users who are either the subject of data collection or the subject of advertising. The simplicity and futility of such a tax is certainly a great plus, but the turnover from advertising is very clear, it is known where the advertising was shown and how much it cost. But the huge minus is that we still want to tax the profits, but if we tax the turnover, there will be double taxation. Turnover also exists for loss-making companies. Possible revenues across Europe would be EUR 5 billion if all three tax objects survived. And if we roughly analyze the size of the population based on the proportion of population in Estonia, the order of magnitude is up to 13 million euros. But, of course, it is understandable that Estonia is not as rich a country as Germany, France or the United Kingdom, so it would rather be a little smaller at present. There has been no agreement on this subject, and some European countries have gone on with the decision to introduce this tax unilaterally. The OECD is working very actively in this area. They have set themselves the deadline for an international solution to be reached by 2020. So far, there have been three key-bearing solutions: the US, the UK and India or, more broadly, Asia. Unfortunately, it happened that one solution did not become a favorite and consensus did not arise. Therefore, the OECD Secretariat had to take over the work and propose its 'pool approach'. However, there is no consensus to separate the digital economy and to tax only the digital economy, to make some sort of digitalisation. There's no such thing, it's claimed, there is no such thing. There is an economy that digitalizes, but there is no separate digital economy. There is quite a consensus that the tax could initially apply to large companies. Small businesses would have a lot of problems if they had to pay their tax anywhere in the world. The idea of the secretariat, which is currently being discussed, is that large companies generate 'routine profits', but they also generate super-profits or residual profits. And that is the part of the residual profit that exceeds the profits of routine activities, could go to distribution in the different countries where digital platforms or large digital business users live or are located or consume services. There is one very important aspect that should be addressed. Surprisingly and unfortunately, the second pillar of the OECD's digital economy came to this solution. This is not, of course, the second pillar we are discussing in our own country, this is Pillar 2. In other words, Germany and France, to a large extent, are the idea that the solution has been supplemented by an addition to this Brezhnev package. According to their idea, there could be a minimum profit tax worldwide. There are many countries that do not agree with this. Estonia is one of these countries because we think that we could decide for ourselves in our country what taxes we have and how big or how small they are. This would be a reduction in flexibility and certainly also an intervention in national decisions. When it is said that there must be a minimum profit tax everywhere in the world, it is argued that countries can still shape their own tax systems. As I said, the OECD has taken on the deadline for 2020 to arrive at some internationally agreed solution. But the European Commission is following the situation with a hawk's eye. The Commission has said that if the OECD does not reach anywhere, the European Union will act itself and come up with its own solution to tax the profits of digital giants or digital companies. The problem is that unilateral action is condemned or even rejected. Perhaps you are aware that France has already introduced a digital tax and the US has decided to respond with its own sanctions. He has threatened to impose sanctions on both French wine and French cheese, I think that the matter would probably not be limited to these two categories and, as a result of the negotiations, they have agreed on a solution that France will levy its own tax, but if a new international solution is agreed in the world and this international solution means a lower tax liability for US companies, then France will pay back this tax money to US companies. The problem, of course, is whether the OECD long-term solution is sufficient. However, the OECD is a community of rich countries, and there is a very small share of the profits made by digital giants in other countries. And in this case there may be long-term pressure that this new solution, too, is not enough. How do you explain to a politician that we have Uber, we have Facebook, we have Google, but international tax rules say that they do not exist and they do not have to pay taxes in our country. So there's a situation of injustice. Indeed, the attitude of the new European Commission is very strict: if the OECD fails to agree on a long-term solution, then the coming of a new temporary solution is more than certain. And, of course, the more countries take unilateral steps, the more difficult it is to agree on a new common approach. Therefore, unilateral action, including by Estonia, could still be very, very carefully considered if we wish to implement our plan at some point. I would also point out that 13 million is rather an overly optimistic estimate, so much tax revenue should not really be expected from digital taxation. Perhaps in the future, when the digital economy is even bigger, yes, but not now. I want to finish with one subject that I believe has received too little attention. But actually, it's a subject, let's just say, this future is already the present. This future has already arrived. Our labour market is changing, the labour market is changing all over the world, and Europe is also changing. We have a tax system that distinguishes between active and passive income. Such a tax system is, in fact, in the vast majority of Europe, with the exception of one country, Denmark. Active income arises when I actively engage in business or work actively, and passive income is either rental income or instress or dividends. On this basis, it is decided whether income is taxed solely on income tax or on both income tax and social tax. In fact, this distinction between forms of income may no longer make sense. Firstly, the boundaries become blurred, and this distinction is actually a very complex task. Secondly, is Airbnb active or passive? It's like rental income, but if I still change tenants every three or four days and I have to clean the apartment, change laundry, do dishes, well, it still looks like an active activity. The question is whether this distinction is necessary at all, because, in fact, in the future, we all need a pension, we all need health insurance. Maybe we should go this way so we can have social security for everyone, and we should pay for social security for everything. The OECD has also said that, in order to attract only those who work, the optimal solution will soon be no longer, and that countries should think of another solution. This distinction is costly, it may be unnecessary, and it may not correspond to the sense of justice at any point. We must also take into account the fact that digitalism is growing. Digital nomads are the kind of people who say'man and computer' type OÜ founders who travel around the world and whose location of work is not important at all. They work on the Internet. This means that national social security systems are being hit. Four years ago, the proportion of these people was estimated to be 1% of the population, i.e. 60 million people worldwide, but they are growing. These people will be able to choose which country they pay their taxes to. As a result, instead of a mandatory system, social security becomes at least optional for these people at some point in time. The question is whether the social security system in our country is so attractive that these people would join our system that they would pay taxes to us. Unfortunately, there is not much debate on these issues now, but we should discuss them. That's where I'd stop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U28	Thanks to the waitress! And now let's get back to the questions. The time has 20 minutes to ask questions to the person making this presentation, and everyone has the right to ask two questions in total on the whole matter. So let's move on to the question line. Raimond Kaljulaid is the first.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U29	Thank you very much for this very substantive and interesting presentation. I would like to clarify one aspect. You spoke about collecting data from a tax point of view. But, in the case of data, should we not rather talk about property as in the case of copyright? Once I have created a piece of music or a photo, companies will be able to buy from me the right to use them. I can sell them easily enough on the world market and get a profit for it. When a person creates data, should we not talk in the same way about the obligation for companies that use these data to share the benefits they receive with people? Is it a question of tax policy, or is it rather a question of copyright?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U30	Thank you. As a matter of principle, when we talk about data being essentially an asset and it is possible to generate revenue from it, the biggest problem is that, unfortunately, the international accounting rules are now saying that they only become an asset when they are sold. If someone actually collects data, such as Facebook or Google, and doesn't sell them, then accounting doesn't reflect them in any way as an asset and that's one problem. And another problem is that legally, I tend to think, this property is still on Facebook and Google and everyone else's 'balance sheet', and they receive income from using these data or selling them, and this income, if, for example, the data concerns Estonian people, is not reflected in any way in Estonia. There is no way that Estonia will benefit from this. Some people in Estonia can only use 'free' Facebook and Google, but the Estonian state budget cannot benefit from it. And this situation could actually change. If data is mined in Estonia, we could say that this activity is taking place in Estonia, it is part of our economy, and it would be fair that Estonian tax rules apply to those who participate in the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U31	Marek Jürgenson, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U32	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you very much to the rapporteur for this presentation. Estonia is known to have a unique corporate tax system: income tax is paid only on withdrawals of dividends. But if the digital economy is now being taxed across Europe, how does the Estonian corporate tax system fit into this system? Can there be a situation where profits are taxed on digital companies, but only dividends for other companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U33	Thank you. Since we do not know which solution the OECD will reach and whether the solution that is currently being proposed will remain, it is very difficult to respond. However, if part of the profit that goes around the world is attributed to Estonia, but this profit is not physically located in Estonia, then it can be equated to the distribution of profit and in that case the tax should also be collected in Estonia. If the digital company does not want to pay this tax, it must physically direct this profit to Estonia and this profit must be actually located in Estonia, either in a permanent establishment or in a daughter company. It must not be distributed if there is a need for access to the tax. In fact, all large companies have daughter companies here, just activities that generate a lot of profits, they don't go here. That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U34	Marika Tuus-Laul, next question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U35	Thank you. Honourable specialist! It is precisely you who would have liked to have been asked more broadly about the tax system, but I am still on the subject at hand. I heard you say that we have data like new oil, so valuable. I immediately wondered if someone with my data would make a profit without asking me, but what do I get for it? And if we don't know where our data is going today, what's the picture of the future? Where does it go?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U36	Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm not a data protection specialist, I'm a tax specialist. But I'm pretty sure, let's say 99.9% sure, that you've still given your consent to the use of these data. Maybe it's just somewhere in a very small sheriff and it doesn't make any sense. But your question is very interesting. To illustrate the approach to the concept of digital giants and data as new oil, I note that some countries prefer to say that the fact that people can use Facebook, Google and so on for free means that a partner transaction is taking place: you pay for these services with your data. And they also say that your person in your country has earned a profit. If you want to tax it, please, but leave the digital giants alone. This is one possible approach, but either fortunately or unfortunately very many countries do not believe in such an approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U37	Aivar Sõerd, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Thank you, too, for this presentation. This was much more meaningful than the previous speaker's talk about a vague plan to increase the tax burden. You dealt with the issue of the tax on digital services. Perhaps it would be 13 million euros for Estonia, but in this very digital service world we have one very big tax gap. This is precisely because we are losing dozens and, according to market participants' estimates, even hundreds of millions due to the pricing of Chinese online shops. The point is that we are losing millions of euros of tax money because the Chinese online shops sign a delivery note for the goods sent here with a much lower amount than the real price, or they make it a gift at all. It is said that, for example, when ordering from AliExpress, the price fraud is full of all of Estonia, the delivery note is put at a much cheaper price than the actual value of the goods. Is this problem being dealt with? The Ministry of Finance has said vaguely that maybe someday in the future VAT changes will be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U39	Thank you. Fortunately, this issue is not vague at all. The amendment to the directive has already been adopted and this so-called Chinese problem, i.e. the tax exemption of up to EUR 22 that we currently have on ordering goods from third countries by natural persons, will soon disappear. When the bill is ready, the government will hand it over to the Riigikogu. In that case, when ordering something online, either figuratively speaking from a shop across the street or from a Chinese store thousands of miles away, taxes are still the same. Everyone's gonna pay. When you say that there is a problem that very much is being deceived by the value of goods, indeed, some countries have mentioned this problem. A few or three years ago, our Tax and Customs Board also took up this problem and essentially within two weeks this conveyor was stopped. All consignments that had come within two weeks, were either illuminated or otherwise inspected, and three or four frauds were found in thousands of consignments. On top of that, the Tax and Customs Board said that until there are serious signals of mass fraud, they would not be willing to spend enough resources to detect three or four frauds. So at least there was no mass fraud at the time. Of course, if there is a full payment obligation, if the exemption for goods up to EUR 22 disappears, then the Tax and Customs Board will have to look at this again. The correct value must be declared. But we are not one of those countries where there are mass frauds in terms of the value of goods, which would give rise to a huge amount of revenue being spent on it by the Tax and Customs Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U40	Jürgen Ligi, next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U41	Thank you. Mr. Egorov! It is a great pity that you are being used today simply as a quality mark just as the only tax expert who has been invited. However, since you also mentioned the tax base, you have been pushed to a narrow topic, but you have also talked about the tax base more widely, please tell me whether you think it is realistic to replace the shrinking tax sources, such as traditional labour taxes, etc., with alternatives, such as those in the digital economy. Ten million is nothing, but your job today was to talk about ten million. And have you appreciated this broader social tax base? How much could it replace existing taxes and how much could its tax environment have a negative impact on competitiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U42	Thank you. I would first say that, if political decisions are not taken to rule out certain aspects of labour costs in the tax base, this base will not be substantially shrinking over a few years. The point is that the tax system is complete. If it is decided to shift the tax burden from, for example, earning back or earning property, then the economic consequences must be considered. We live in an open Europe where capital is particularly mobile, and we need to think about the consequences that this will have for us. I don't see a big source of property taxes. However, this does not mean that we do not have to have property taxes, because, by looking at both income and property, the stratification in Estonia is quite high. When it comes to property taxes, they, as in fact, must be effective in collecting them, as in any case. Taxes may be higher or lower, but they must certainly not be such as to cost a great deal of money to collect them, to administer them. Estonia has been exceptional so far: the efficiency of our collection has been exceptionally high, we have shared the first and the first places with Switzerland. This is definitely the direction to be maintained. So let's look at the tax base and see how much money comes in, but the system itself has to be simple enough to make it effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U43	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Vice Chancellor! It would be interesting to hear your comment on the introduction of a global minimum tax on the digital economy. In this regard, you stated in your presentation that this has been a long-standing wish of Germany and France and that the OECD is looking forward to a solution by 2020. Personally, you don't think that's gonna be possible so soon. But I ask you now to go on saying that when collecting taxes, we must not forget what this administration and collection costs: how much do you think the state would have to put into play in order to get 13 million tax money for digital services? Two questions in one.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U45	Thank you. As far as the minimum tax is concerned, it is indeed, I would say, a disturbing phenomenon. In the sense that it is hard to imagine that all countries around the world are being written down that you must have some specific taxes at specific rates. It is also essentially questionable why Estonia, when we speak in the Estonian context, must be satisfied with the minimum tax paid elsewhere in the world when we talk about tax revenue that should actually be reflected in Estonia and based on Estonian tax rates. The advocates of this minimum tax point out that if there is a minimum tax worldwide, there will be fewer schemes. What level of agreement can be reached on the amount of this minimum tax to be equal to 10%? But 10% is still less than 20%, so it's possible to win a whole 50% scheme. So, yeah, I'm skeptical to be able to agree, but this situation still needs to be monitored. With regard to this digital tax, which could have brought in 13 million, this is an optimistic assessment. Given that this is currently only planned for large multinational companies with a turnover of more than EUR 750 million, I would not appreciate this administrative cost very high. These are not companies that are going to scheme and avoid. If such a tax is imposed and they have to pay it, they will. The problems associated with this tax are elsewhere. We are a small country, and if 3% of the turnover is put to the end, we will most likely all pay the tax in such a way that services become 3% more expensive. And if the companies are loss-making, the additional levy simply increases that loss. These are actually problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U46	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U47	Thank you. It is no secret that this debate today, on the one hand, is also due to the fact that the governments of Jüri Ratas have spent quite a lot and budgetary opportunities are shrinking faster and faster. As a result, it is already widespread in the press that this is an attempt to launch a debate on the need to raise taxes in Estonia. One thing you have also pointed out is that, on the one hand, we are very effective in tax collection. On the other hand, for a long time, we have had a simple, transparent tax system and, in my opinion, also a positive one in terms of fiscal discipline. If we now move towards higher taxes on any political decision to provide services to certain target groups, can there be no risk that we will exhaust our strong taxpayer yet? I mean, as a country, we haven't been able to gather wealth for very long. Is there a threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U48	Thank you. The scale of the tax burden is clearly a political issue. We can say that there are also successful countries in Europe with a low tax burden and there are also successful countries with a higher tax burden. Certainly the current tax debate, as it appears in the media, is over the scale of the tax burden. But what is not a political question, which is very clearly a matter of the ministry and of the work of the Tax and Customs Board, and here, of course, we ask politicians to listen to us, is precisely the efficiency of the system. Because even worse than the higher tax burden is if the tax money doesn't go where the public thinks it should go. And I think that, in the public opinion, this certainly does not have to go to the Tax and Customs Board to maintain it or to maintain it dearly at all. However, a complex tax system cannot be easily and cheaply administered. So it should certainly be ensured that the simplicity of the system and its cheap administration persist. As a citizen, I would like to ask that if we have a tax debate, we not only talk about taxes, but we also talk about costs. The tax is collected in order for the State to be able to finance certain services, certain goods which it offers. The question is whether the people, the taxpayers, know where this money is going, whether they agree with it, where they are going, whether they are satisfied. And this is not about anything other than the taxpayer's willingness and willingness to pay taxes. 90% of taxpayers pay taxes voluntarily and this is a very important value to keep.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U49	Now, here's the thing. There's only one question left in this cycle. It's presented by Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U50	Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity. Dear Deputy Secretary-General Egorov! Thank you for this very excellent presentation. I'm sure it's a matter of the future, but if we can agree, I can't tell you that. However, I ask something else that concerns us on a daily basis: it is our tax system. As is known, somewhere in 16 or 17 years Estonian banks have earned over 4 billion euros in net profit, but on this they have paid very minimal income tax. The estimated average annual tax burden is around 3 to 4%. How do you rate it? Is this tax system fair? I also ask that from another aspect. Estonia has become a purely money-laundering country. Over 200 billion have been laundered here. Is there one reason why the corporate tax system does not have to pay income tax directly here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U51	Thank you. I'll start at the back. I wouldn't comment further on the risks of money laundering here. We have also had to change our tax system over this 19-year period in order to mitigate these risks. We did not succeed in taking this one more step in the last draft, but we are probably drawing up an intention to amend the Income Tax Act and restrict the circulation of tax-free profits through Estonia once more. As far as the first question is concerned, we must take into account that, thanks to our tax system, banks have for a long time been structured in such a way that Latvian and Lithuanian entities have also been daughter companies of the Estonian unit. According to our system, profits earned in Latvia and Lithuania were not subject to income tax because they are not Estonian profits, but they were reflected in the balance sheet of the Estonian company. So it is not quite 100% right to compare how much they have paid tax and how much they have made profit because, to a large extent, these profits were not Estonia's. At the moment, of course, we also have advance income tax on banks, so banks are still paying significantly more income tax on ordinary companies under our system.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U52	Thank you, Mr Egorov, for your excellent presentation. No more questions can be asked to you, although there would certainly be many. We're going to listen to the next report, it's from Indrek Neivelt. I don't know how to baby you... But there's a good thing about saying that it's good for a person to have a title, but it's even better if his name is his title. Indrek Neivelt also has 20 minutes to report and 20 minutes to answer questions. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U53	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to appear before you in this honourable Chamber and to speak about my understanding of taxes. I think I was invited here today because I have been talking for some time about how the tax system should change. I would also like to thank Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, who invited everyone to this public debate a few months ago. Old people have always said better late than never. Why would I think that? Because our tax system is closed in the '90s when the tax discipline and the ability to collect taxes were different. Nor was there any wealth to be taxed. In addition, another 15 years ago or more than 15 years ago, we did not have capital, so we were granted the same corporate tax exemption. The current situation is quite different. We have a very well-functioning tax administration, we have a very good discipline in paying taxes and there is a capital surplus in the world for some time now. At the same time, the concentration of wealth is one of the world's greatest problems. Not to mention that we know how employment relations have changed and are still changing. Human behavior has also changed. 20 years ago, we had the ideal family living on the outskirts of the city, who have two large - fueled cars in the garage. Every weekend, friends were cooking meat and eating cake. Now there are other ideals and human behavior has changed and is changing. Apartment in Kalamaja or Veerennis, instead of large SUVs, young families have bicycles and cars are rented. For a moment, consider how our own conduct has changed, how the street scene has changed in the last ten or 15 years. For example, ten years ago, were the eco-product counters so long in stores? Did we talk about environmental problems, for example, when did you last buy a plastic bag at the store? Or did you see so many people athletic or walking at night ten years ago? And these changes are all just accelerating. That is why we must also speak freely and without dogmas about our tax system, namely, in our tax system there is a very large part of consumption taxes. But now let us imagine, for a moment, that when consumption begins to decline, what are we going to do? Consumption doesn't increase anymore, it starts to decrease. Can we imagine that if, for example, we were going to work on bicycles, no cars, no fuel, no excise duty, no VAT, no bike rides instead of a gym, no loan to buy a car, no loan to what kind of economic model will it look like? Why am I talking about this now? I don't think that's gonna happen in our near future, but it's clear that there's a trend in this direction. Less alcohol is drunk, once again, excise duties are decreasing. If the same person of the new age goes for the same money that he saves by giving up his current form of consumption, to rest somewhere warm, we will not get any taxes. Or invests somewhere, for example, saving for retirement or just doing less work, thinking that he doesn't need to consume so much anymore, so how would we cover our social expenses? Let's see it! It's a little theoretical, but actually, we're going in that direction. If you are also looking at the behavior of your children and young people at all, you are probably convinced of this. And more and more talk about economy. You can rent a lot of things, you don't have to own them. Work can also be done with a more reasonable burden and a longer period of health. Young people no longer think that they should work in many places to enjoy retirement. They know that public pensions will not be paid to them in the future and they want to share their energy more evenly. And there are even more of these changes. In fact, it would be nice if someone in front of you today spoke of a 30-year-old talking about how he imagines life in the next 10 to 20 years. And he certainly has a different vision than the 50s or 60s. So the world has changed and is changing faster and faster. And there must also be a change in the tax system. As we know about this last increase in alcohol duty, it is actually necessary to take into account the very significant effects. It's not linear. It is not easy to change taxes. If we did not have neighbours or free trade, it would, of course, be easier, but that is not the case. When we are talking about digital taxation, we are talking about various new forms of life in the free European Union, where the labour force moves freely, we should actually talk about taxes in the wider European Union, not just here in Estonia. In my opinion, we need a number of pan-European taxes so that we do not compete where it is not needed. Speaker earlier, Dmitri Egorov, speaking of digital taxation, said that these sums are not very large at the moment, but they are changing. It is clear that we must start somewhere: even if it is 10 million a year at the beginning, it will soon be 100 million, etc. But once again, I am not talking about digital taxation today. I gently touch on some tax rates, but I do not want to propose them specifically. I think it would be best if we agreed that if we changed taxes, then gradually, not too much at once. Hard moves are too risky. First of all, taxes on natural resources. We talk a lot about CO2 and the environment. In fact, there is a need for more taxes on natural resources worldwide, not on consumption, but on natural resources. Because when we think about consumption, for example, handicraft is subject to the same rate of VAT as plastic dishes or other things made of plastic. This isn't right. At the same time, it is clear that such a transnational agreement cannot possibly be made, because there is always a country that wants to increase its competitiveness. In this sense, I do not think that we should be a pioneer when it comes to introducing resource taxes. Let us try to keep up with others and see that our economy does not become uncompetitive. But what I think we should talk about in the case of environmental pollution is how we pollute our groundwater. We should not talk so much about CO2, but precisely about groundwater, about how much our agriculture uses fertilisers and other chemicals. In my opinion, this is a far greater threat to nature than cutting forests, which we are talking about so much. And here I would suggest that the only model that works is that we exempt organic farming from VAT. I am convinced that tax specialists have even more of these ideas, but to encourage a healthier diet, to encourage us not to poison our land so much, we must start. And one solution is the exemption from VAT on ecologically clean foodstuffs. Next item: Taxation of assets. In my opinion, it is important to further reduce taxes on wages for middle and low incomes and increase taxes on assets and tax more on higher incomes. Much is being said lately not only about increased taxation on income but also about wealth. This would be very right and fair from the point of view of society as a whole. It is only a question of what and how to tax: whether real estate or also shares and shares or wealth as a whole, as suggested by Elizabeth Warren, the presidential candidate for the Democratic Party of the United States. And these are not just the ideas of one politician, but behind them are the brain trusts of different thinkers. For example, Warren recommends taxing over 50 million in assets by 2% and over 1 billion in assets by 3%. How about we tax assets worth EUR 10 million, for example, at 1% a year? Or at first half a percent? How many rich Estonians would leave Estonia for this and how much would the annual additional budget be? I did a small survey last week among the rich people I know, and this approach is generally in favour. Businesses understand very well that life cannot continue in the same way for long. At all, I think that a minimum threshold should be used as a basis for the taxation of assets. This also applies to land taxes. We are exempt from the tax on land under home, but if, for example, this threshold was EUR 100000 and the land tax had to be paid since then, then again, a step towards a fairer society would be a step, and the budget would also be a positive one. Taxation of income. Again, we have reached a time when monetary capital is very cheap and the person is expensive, 20 years ago the situation was the opposite. We have had a rapid increase in wages; they are catching up quickly with the European average. If we think about the future, in the next 20 to 30 years, we will see low interest rates and how robots take away much of our work. In the case of robots, there is no need to pay social tax, no need to collect money into the pension pillar, nor do they go to a family doctor. So we have put our people at a disadvantage with high social tax and other wage taxes and we have to see how these taxes can be reduced. Dmitri Egorov also pointed out at the end of his presentation that all private income should be taxed on an equal footing. In my opinion, too, it would be right and fair for both dividends and income from real estate rentals to be taxed in the same way as wages. Because once again, life has changed. And in order not to intimidate anyone and force them to leave Estonia, there should be a ceiling on social tax. And now a topic that probably excites a lot of people: do we need progressive income tax? I think we do. Let me give you an example of where my personal opinion has changed 180 degrees in the last 20 years. Twenty years ago, a Finnish consultant helped us. A few years later, when he finished working with us, he left this prestigious consulting firm. I asked him why he left. He said that when he was doing long days in the evening, but there were very long working days, he paid half the fee he received for his overworked time, to the Finnish state. And then I thought it wouldn't be very reasonable to have a tax system where you have to pay off half the overtime. Today, however, I actually think the opposite. A much deeper philosophy applies to graduated income tax than it seems at first sight. This will help, first of all, many overtime workers to lead a much more balanced life. And secondly, if we look to the future, it would be good if there was enough work for everyone. It is not good to have a share of 70 to 80 hours a week and others have no job at all. This system clearly directs people's behaviour. And the highest tax rate does not have to be 50%, but, for example, 25 to 30%. It doesn't scare anybody, but there is an impact on the budget. I also think that our corporate tax system should also be reviewed. There is nothing more logical than the fact that if the company is doing well, it will share it with others, especially with its community. A number of specialists and local government leaders believe that corporate income tax should be paid to the local government budget, otherwise neither local government nor local people have an interest in large industrial investments. I also think it would make a lot of sense. Once again, this rate does not have to be very high. Now for vice taxation. I'll tell you what, I don't agree with the previous speaker, Dmitri Egorov, but I'm about to get there. Taxation of evils is important not only from the budgetary point of view, but also from the direction of our behaviour. In my opinion, it would make sense that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund should also be paid because we are taxing activities that violate health. Excise duties on alcohol and tobacco should certainly be paid into the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. And if we consume a lot of sugar, although we know that sugar is harmful, it would also be essential to tax sugar, such as sugar drinks. A little extra liver for lemonade, and believe me, people's behavior is changing, especially in children. The Latvians, the southern neighbours, have tried it, and they think that this is one reason why the obesity of Latvian children has not increased in recent years. Once again, this would not be such a budgetary change as a guide to behaviour. If lemonade is much more expensive than water in the store, the child will buy water rather than lemonade. I think that even if we spend as much on collecting this tax as we earn from it, the fact that we are changing people's behaviour is positive. Now another point, which is not directly relevant to taxes, concerns a little bit of the financing of the state budget. There is a great deal of talk now about the problems of financing our research and higher education. We all know that higher education is free of charge in Estonia. We understand that money is not going to continue well for this and that the country cannot borrow either because of the various restrictions of the European Union. But what if the student took out a loan? We'd have a very generous system to subsidise the percentage of tuition fees. The percentage could only be 2% per year for the student and the difference between market interest and student interest would be compensated by the state. We could also develop a loan write-off mechanism, which would perhaps require working in the public sector in Estonia. Once again, we are getting more money into the budget, and obviously people's behaviour will also become more responsible. In summary, I think our tax system is satisfactory, but not very good. It should not mislead itself when a title appears somewhere that says that the Estonian tax system is the best or the most competitive in the world. The text itself may clearly state that this assessment has been made from the point of view of the company, not from the point of view of the Estonian people, but precisely from the point of view of the company. I don't think we should be world leaders on this list, that would be too expensive a price for society. When we look at the rankings that are at the top of this list, our destiny mates and our neighbours Latvia and Lithuania and some other Eastern bloc countries are at the top. Being high on this chart is the signal that something is wrong and something has to be done differently. If we do not plan to increase the overall tax burden, we can only re-distribute it. The number of people working and creating value does not increase, which means that we can shift the tax burden to different groups of the population. And once again, I come back to the beginning: we should reduce the proportion of consumption taxes and tax more vices, assets and higher revenues. The tax burden should be shifted more to the shoulders of large companies, wealthy private individuals and people earning even more. Finally, thank you once again for this invitation! And once again, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for initiating this debate. I think it would be nice if there were fewer dogmas and all the suggestions were raised on the table, which should still be our system, so that it would help us live on for 20 years. To this end, more younger people should also be involved in these conversations. Thank you. I'm ready to answer questions now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U54	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress, the same line goes on. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U55	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Thank you very much for an interesting presentation. The presentation was so well prepared that many of the questions I had were already answered. I'm gonna ask you two things, though. On the one hand, as you said, the tax system we have is more like the '90s. Very much we appreciate the tax system, according to whether it is cheap to maintain, to manage whether it is easy, whether people understand it and whether we are making a decent profit with it. The presentation gave the impression that they were not really the principles on which the future tax system should be assessed. On the one hand, I ask what would be the few or three most important criteria to consider when we start making tax changes. On the other hand, what would be the first change that you would make quietly, gradually in the Estonian tax system? What is the first step that should be taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U56	Thank you. I don't know how to call the first one that way. I think it should be a complex and larger venture. If you started moving quietly from one corner, I'd probably start moving with a little bit of progressive income tax. This might be the easiest way forward, it will not change anyone or anything if we introduce such a tax. And certainly, I repeat that again, we should do more to deal with vices, support a healthy lifestyle and strengthen our health. Consider the problem of overweight, child obesity, so you don't have to read any studies, go to the beach, you'll see that's the problem. Behavior models need to be changed. We spoke briefly in the corner of the hall before saying that if overweight children come to the beach, one has a large carton of chips, and the other has a one and a half litre bottle of lemonade, that's not normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U57	Next, Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Indrek Neivelt! Your presentation inspired me when I heard that all sorts of vices should be taxed. It was about sugar that we would tax it, and we will probably see that children consume less. My question is, please give advice on how to make children and young people move more. What to tax or what to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U59	Thank you, Kristina. I don't know what to say. Well, maybe that's what specialists can say. I can just talk about experiences with my children, but the Riigikogu's speaking board may not be the best place for this. Surely, children's sports circles are actually quite expensive when we look at them from a parent's point of view. If the state or local government were to be more able to compensate for this activity, it would certainly cause more children and adults to move.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U60	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Indrek Neivelt! In her opening statement, Mrs Sarapuu described the tax system as one or an opportunity to promote business taxation. You assisted him on the same subject, you also talked about corporate tax and its benefits: that it is an opportunity to share income with your community, etc. As we know, the start-up of a business initially means a long construction period. Capital has indeed gathered in the hands of the whole world and not the majority of Estonia, not very many. It takes a lot of effort and time to make one company productive. What do you think is the perspective on corporate tax? To be honest, entrepreneurs are still sharing their profits with the community. I have some very good examples of that, I suppose you do too. And one additional question is what could be the future of pan-European taxes? That's what you mentioned in your report.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U62	Thank you. First of all, corporate tax. Yeah, I've also started different businesses at different times, and I know very well what it means to start one company. How much energy it takes, how much you have to change your plans and how many sleepless nights it is certainly not an easy activity. At the same time, when I look at the big picture as a whole, I see that we currently have high social charges that we have to pay on our employees. And when I get to profit at one point, I don't have to share it. That, in my opinion, is not fair. It could be easier for an entrepreneur to start with. You shouldn't be spending too much at the beginning. I mean, right now, it's the main person. Take, for example, a typical Estonian company that, for example, starts some activities in the IT field. Eighty percent or more of his expenses are wages. In this case, all taxes are known to have been paid: social tax, income tax. The same person goes shopping, buys here, pays VAT. In fact, these are the high costs that the country will get back in this way. Let us look at this today, for example, from the investor's point of view. Suppose the company sells its company or simply has a high profit at the same time, such as EUR 5 or EUR 10 million. If he invests in it, according to our income tax system, it does not matter whether he invests here in the Estonian economy or buys Apple shares on the stock exchange, for example. I have the same thing, I don't have to pay income tax, but one time I create jobs here and there are jobs here, taxes are paid off here, another time I just carry some money out of Estonia, and that's it. The touch with the Estonian economy is zero. Today, it's kind of pointless to start a company here, to buy better stock exchanges, is a lot easier to live than to look at. As far as pan-European taxes are concerned, I think that the same tax on wealth could be considered when America, for example, is moving in this direction. In the case of a pan-European tax, there is no preference in any country so that rich people, for example, would go from France to a neighbouring country or elsewhere. This could be in addition to digital taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U63	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U64	Thank you, Mr Neivelt. Please describe the battle assignment you were given today. Most people do not think that if he talks a lot about something, he must also tell the Riigikogu. At the moment, a tax expert and you have been invited here, and you are making a lot of points of view in the very small details of the hanger track and in the very big things without going in depth. In fact, there are many aspects, debates and people who know a lot about them, behind all these points of view. If someone talks like you say, he should know who he's talking about. You are not a typical entrepreneur, you are not an average taxpayer, you are not a tax expert. You were put in such a position, and please don't resent my question, but we still need to understand what debate you were called to us. There's no debate here. What battle mission did you receive? What did they call you? There's only one tax expert invited to talk about a marginal subject, and then you'll have everything at once.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U65	Thank you. I was invited here to speak as an ordinary citizen who has spoken on tax matters. I just said my opinion, I don't represent any parties, these are my personal thoughts. I've been talking about this before, like a lot of other things. If you don't like it, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U66	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Neivelt! On the contrary, I liked your report. This changes our thinking a little: there are a lot of successful people in Estonia who have said publicly that they would be willing to pay more than the tax system is asking them right now. For example, Kristjan Peace recently made a very strong statement. But what concerns me is that yes, we have a pretty large group of people who live well and are also willing to contribute more to society, but we also have 300,000 people living below the relative poverty line. Can these people be brought out of relative poverty without introducing progressive income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U68	Thank you for your question. I don't know that. It's such a complex question. There are certainly many different cases among these 300,000 people, and they should be grouped separately. There is no single magic wand that solves all the problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U69	Peter Ernits, please! Peter Ernitsa is not in the hall. Then please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! One of the thoughts that went through your presentation was that young people of the future will no longer receive a pension from the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U71	They're not looking forward to it, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U72	We still don't really know if they're expecting it or not. The question is, will they think that they will also have to cope in the future? This debate, which has emerged in society, has given the impression that there is no need to deal with the future. Whether the country takes care of us or doesn't take care of us, we don't think about it. I think this is the wrong approach. Could you open up that statement a little bit? What studies are based on the argument that the state will not pay pensions to young people today in the future? Does that mean you have to work till you die or something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U73	Yeah, I've read a lot of research, but I've also talked to a lot of young people who are now in the late 20s or 30s. They don't say they don't care that they don't worry about it, but they think the state pension isn't going to be big enough to guarantee that they live. They certainly have to participate in it, do something, work longer or do something else. They understand their greater responsibility. I think it's very clear, I can see it from my acquaintances, how they share their energy much more evenly and already work in different places, these same nomads. Today here and tomorrow there and they don't work as long as they did in the '90s.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U74	Anti-Semiamets, please! Sorry, I missed a name! Andrei Korobenik was ahead. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U75	Thanks. It's okay. Good Indrek! I have a question about labour taxes. It is a concept of 150 years old that was intended in its time to tax added value. And then it worked. Today, the structure of the economy is quite different, and we obviously need to talk about different solutions. You're probably not a fan of such global taxes, but what you think might be a solution in a situation where not in five years' time, but in ten or 20 years' time, for example, labour taxes will be much lower, but in the case of income tax, we may not be able to get that money from the company. Do you see any way in which we can still effectively tax added value?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U76	Thank you for your question. As far as added value is concerned, once again, it seems that when we look at the platform economy here, it clearly harmonises people's wages around the world. It will then be very difficult to find such added value, as competition is so great that it will become increasingly similar to the conditions of perfect competition. In my opinion, we have no other option if we have to move in the direction that we put the person more in charge. A person must have greater responsibility, but on the other hand, he must know that he has community support if something goes wrong. We need to move towards lower taxes, both in terms of social tax and personal income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U77	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U78	Dear waitress, I would like to quote first what you have said in 2015. The article was entitled 'Indrek Neivelt: poor Eastern Europe supports rich Western Europe'. 'If you think that 5.7 per cent of the people have left Estonia, we have lost about ten per cent of the workforce. Perhaps we have given up a tenth of our workforce and economic potential, and we will receive just over four per cent of gross domestic product with various subsidies. In addition, we are bailing out hopeless loans from over-indebted countries. In fact, we are not getting help, but helping the richer countries. We are donors to richer countries. But ads show that the European Union supports. Actually, we're still supporting and we're getting half back. ' Is the situation in which poorer countries actually subsidise the richest through their own people, in your opinion, deepened over the intervening years?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U79	Thank you. Yeah, that's my quote. At the time, I was a member of the council of a think tank in Eastern and Central Europe, and I relied on this study when I wrote this article. Indeed, as I said, we had given up 5.7% of our workforce, it was then in 2015 or before. Today we see that the population in Estonia has started to grow in the last few years, although not so much by returnees. Probably the percentage we've given up the workforce is about the same as four to five years ago. We would rather start now that we have become rich, using the workforce of other, cheaper and poorer countries in the same way. That's what's really going on today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U80	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U81	Thank you. Honourable performer! I don't know if I didn't listen to you very carefully, but there are some things I didn't quite understand. Once you say that labour taxes are high, consumption taxes are also high and they must not be raised, but then you say again that higher incomes could be taxed higher. After all, labour taxes are also higher on higher incomes. But somewhere you gotta raise something. Well, then you gotta raise your wages. I understand that the real aim of the Jüri Ratas Tax Battery is to raise taxes so that some way of raising budget revenue And yet you're saying you could start taxing real estate, and somewhere around 10 million could be the lower limit from which you could start taxing. Maybe you have some numbers about how many people in Estonia have 10 million real estate? And what could be the income of the Treasury from this taxation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U82	Thank you for your question. I meant not just real estate, but such general wealth. It's not just how much real estate you have, but if you've bought Apple stock or something like that, you'll have everything in your OÜ and you'll pay property tax every year. That's it. People with 10 million are just one example. In this way, we would certainly move towards a fairer society. And once again, I've spoken to a number of people who are definitely part of this group, and no one had a problem with it. In this sense, do not scare that people are fleeing Estonia. People understand perfectly well that they don't want to compete in the game that has the most money when they die. It must be ensured that society as a whole is still evolving, not just a virtual treasure of the rich. Now the real estate. I was thinking that if you put the land under home or what it's called, it's worth $50,000 or $100,000 until it's tax-free, then there's a minimum tax rate. But once again, the land tax should not be equal to zero, you have a big expensive mansion on top of it or just a little pensioner's cabin. It must not be possible for a pensioner to be unable to support his old house out of his small income. That's the idea. At the same time, there are other bigger houses in Nõmme. However, as far as income tax is concerned, I think it should be raised by the wealthier and reduced by the lower hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U83	Thank you. It seems that the time for questions and answers has, unfortunately, run out. I can't ask, I can't answer. So thank you very much, Mr Neivelt. Let's move on to the negotiations. At the request of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, representatives of the political groups and then everyone else who wishes to be heard will be able to speak first. I would like to ask for a representative of the Reform Party to speak here first. However, we take it according to the order of registration. First of all, Kai Rimmel gets the floor on behalf of the EKRE Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If there is anything specific in this world, these are two things: as you know, taxes and death. That is what Benjamin Franklin, a U.S. statesman, has said. For the EKRE as a right-wing and conservative party, taxes are not only a means of implementing the state budget, but also economic governance. For us, economic growth is not an abstract number, but a measure of the growing wealth of people and businesses. Economic growth is necessary because society needs additional money to guarantee the common benefits of the state, whether they are security, education, health care, caring for its poor or promoting a road network. How do we achieve great economic growth in the long term? How can we ensure that growth in the next 10 years is 5% or 6% instead of 1% or 2%? EKRE is of the opinion that the economy will start to grow when taxes are significantly reduced. Unlike the Centre Party, EKRE considers it necessary to reduce both the tax rate and the tax rate. And we're not talking reform party fine-tuning or half a percent carving. First of all, VAT. We believe that a 5% reduction in VAT, i.e. from 20% to 15%, will give a strong boost to the development of the Estonian economy. Those who make a linear calculation are mistaken and say that the receipts into the state budget will be reduced by a quarter. A previous government excise duty is a good example that raising or lowering taxes does not constitute a linear calculation in the Excel table, but affects both the behaviour of people and the overall situation of the economy. VAT is the tax that hurts the poorest people the most. This reduction will immediately release over EUR 500 million in the economy, which will increase consumption and, among other things, will lead to an increase in VAT receipts. Nor should it be forgotten that the state itself is a very large VAT payer, so the reduction of VAT will save tens of millions in the state budget. In doing so, we consider it necessary to extend the 9% rate of VAT to the area of accommodation and catering. The tax cut will lead to an economic recovery, which in the short term will restore the receipts to the level before the tax reduction. Second, excise duties. At the time of the increase in excise duties on fuel and alcohol, EKRE was the only party to warn that the increase would lead to a reduction in receipts. He was not believed and the Estonian state lost tens of millions of euros of tax money during the previous government. We have now been right twice about excise duties. The reduction of alcohol excise duty this summer improved just as we predicted the tax receipts, reduced the volume of border trade, and the Finnish tourist started to travel more in Estonia again. We believe that the Estonian economy would grow faster if we also reduced electricity excise duties, regulated network charges and renewable energy charges. Gas excises should also be lowered, as gas is heated to nearly 200,000 homes in Estonia, but unlike diesel, it is not possible to buy it in Latvia. Today, energy prices in Estonia are higher than in our neighbouring countries, including the rich Nordic countries. This hampers our competitiveness and puts wages under pressure. If all other input prices are higher than those of the neighbours, the only place to save is the employees. That is why some employers are demanding cheap labour from Ukraine. By lowering the price of electricity and gas, we give companies the opportunity to raise wages without losing out in competition in foreign markets. The aim should be to turn Estonia into the cheapest energy state in our region. What other tax policy changes do we consider necessary? Road and truck taxes do not significantly increase the state budget, but reduce the competitiveness of our transport companies... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U85	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U86	... and increases domestic transport costs, thereby increasing all prices. These taxes should be abolished. In addition to banks, insurance companies' money should be taxed, which is currently simply being taken out of Estonia. In order to promote entrepreneurship, the minimum social tax obligation should be abolished in order to make part-time work more attractive. Companies should be allowed to spend up to EUR 6000 a year without a special preferential tax. Tax incentives for certain enterprises should be introduced to level out regional specificities. To sum it up. Tax cuts in conjunction with other economic policy levers, such as cutting red tape and building infrastructure, would increase our economic growth over the next ten years to such an extent that we can start comparing our wealth levels with that of neighbouring Finland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U87	Thank you. Next, I would like to ask for the representative of the Reform Party Group, Mr Lauri. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U88	Ladies and gentlemen, Before we start talking about the tax issue, I would like to point out that already in the electoral platform of the Reform Party, there was a desire to start discussions on taxes and tax systems, about major changes in this. So this isn't George Ratas' big idea. But I now come to whether or not the tax system needs to be changed. Before changing the tax system, it should be determined what the role of the state is, which is the national objectives, which are the problems that need to be solved. Different alternatives should be looked at, because let us not forget that taxes are not the only way to influence things. And then there will be decisions, implementations and certainly ex-post evaluations, which may not be the subject of today's discussion. But I'm trying to start from the beginning. What's the purpose, anyway? Is the aim to get more money into the state budget? Is there a problem with a low tax burden? I think that our aim is to achieve the greatest possible prosperity and to constantly increase it. The welfare of society can only be based on economic growth. And economic growth is still the result of entrepreneurship alone. So that's the first thing you have to think about. The next question is definitely what problems are in our wider society and globally. I'd like to touch three things. Firstly, all that concerns the climate and our environment. Things have changed a lot here, and whether we like it or not, we have to take these changes into account. It is clear that we need to find ways to motivate people and businesses to behave appropriately. It doesn't always have to be through taxes, but it can be through taxes. It is usually the case that taxes are part of measures. The second issue, which is more local, concerns the population. But the same problems actually plague the whole of Europe. The population ages and decreases or grows very slowly. Both ageing and population dynamics have consequences, the question is who and how much society needs to support and how to do it. That, too, needs to be discussed. And the third question concerns technology, technology in a very broad sense, since we have left the industrial society, but our tax systems have been built on the basis of an industrial society. Our social systems are based on the principles of industrial society. We have a service society where information is increasingly influenced, where data play a very important role. Dmitri Egorov spoke in his presentation about certain dilemmas resulting from such changes. But technology also affects how people work. We work in very different ways in very different places, we move. In such circumstances, how can we ensure tax revenues on the one hand and who is responsible for solving social problems in this case? There is certainly a need for discussion in each country on a subject that is the role of the state in which the state should participate. We can't take fixed that we've never decided the same thing, and that's how it's gonna stay. Certainly there are things that make sense to do together at national level, and there are things that make sense to do together at municipal level. There are things where the private and public sectors should work together, and there are things that could leave people responsible for themselves, because responsibility is also a very important thing. I can assure you of that as an economist. If the responsibility is taken away, the inefficiency guaranteed is, I mean, different systems. Now maybe a few references. Free transport does not necessarily mean that people will use it. This may mean spending money, but the use of public transport, which is actually a commendable trend, may reduce. If public transports move at the wrong time and in the wrong places, they are no use, it is a waste of money. I'm not talking about quality. Once we have been clear between ourselves about what the state should do at national level and what should be done by the municipality, what the individual and what business level, only then could we begin to think about how to finance these things, how to achieve these results. It's not always the taxes that save it. But in our discussions, in the public debate at all, it's always the impression that if we want to make a difference, the only solution is taxes. It's not always about taxes. We're the Riigikogu here, we're making laws. Laws often set limits on how to act; sometimes social influence is needed. I would remind you that, for example, the use of seat belts in a car has not only been achieved by imposing fines. Exceptions should be viewed with caution, as the exception often means unfairness towards others who do not receive this exception. All the more so as exceptions tend to be shared between one, the other and the third, and finally they reach where Western societies are often reached: most enjoy exceptions and few pay, and pay very painfully. And the exceptions are very difficult to eliminate. So if we were to start talking about tax matters, including the future of the tax system, we would first set a goal, take alternatives and deal with them together with a solution, and not just with tax solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U89	Thank you. Next, Andrei Korobenik on behalf of the Centre Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U90	Thank you. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U91	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U92	Thank you. 'The Riigikogu is discussing an increase in taxes on the initiative of the Centre Party' lets us know today. This title well sums up the consensus that exists in our society. Everyone believes that more money in the state budget can only be obtained through new taxes or by raising existing taxes. That if we want to help our fellow countrymen living in relative or absolute poverty, our overall tax burden must increase. People like simple and understandable logic, and such people make up the majority in every society. It's natural and normal. But such people do not always make up the majority in this Chamber. We recall how 20 years ago Siim Kallas, led by Siim Kallas, lost corporate income tax in Estonia. Even then, not to mention the media's speeches that the end of the world was virtually at hand. But with the abolition of this income tax, the Estonian economy made such a big leap of development that our tax system is still regarded as exemplary. The receipts into the state budget increased. No substantial economic reform took place for the next 20 years. I find it hard to imagine how a decision of this weight could be made in the current Riigikogu. Since the beginning of this century there has been an Excel victory in Estonia. Nobody thinks outside the box anymore. The economic reforms consist in adjusting the tabular cells and percentage points. If anyone wants to make a bolder decision, they're gonna get Excel's quick training, and that's where it's gonna be. But this is not an official conspiracy. They're part of our society. When I reported a draft addressed to start-ups from this remote control a month ago, the columnist of Postimees wrote that according to the Constitutional provision and the spirit of the Constitution, it is primarily the task of the Government of the Republic to submit draft laws and that the Riigikogu itself should initiate drafts only in exceptional circumstances. But let's just say that extraordinary times require emergency measures. I believe that there is no doubt in any of the tax authorities that poverty in society must be combated. The solidarity of society is not really based on emotions. It's purely personal interests. If society helps the weaker and makes him an equal partner, then this person, in turn, contributes more to society and wins from it all. We have two ways to achieve greater equality. If we start punishing people for higher incomes, we have fewer rich people. If, on the contrary, we attract investors and highly paid specialists to Estonia, we have fewer poor people. It is this second approach that has brought us here where we are, and I believe that it will take us forward, but it requires political courage, which is less and less in Estonia every year. Estonia's competitiveness is being brought down today by high taxes on labour. We need to talk again about the social tax ceiling, and it is not enough to be told once a year by Indrek Neivelt. This is a much more important subject. The social tax ceiling may also be combined with graduated income tax, but the result must be a lower tax burden on high-paid jobs. In this way, we encourage entrepreneurs to pay higher wages and return to Estonia the jobs of Estonian companies, which have in the meantime moved to countries with lower labour tax. And, of course, we have to talk about the fact that all taxes have to go from employer to employee. If the employer pays the labour tax, the result of the reform may not reach people at all. If the employee's salary remains the same, but in addition to income tax, the employee's gross income also reflects social tax, unemployment fund insurance and everything else, he will feel the impact of the reforms and probably also feel more empathy for the employer. If we bring down the tax burden on labour, we will have many more choices. We can also talk about consumption or property taxes, such as property tax, which is almost everywhere in the European Union, but in Estonia it has always been a taboo issue. Or we can bring an environmental tax on the table, helping Estonia on its way to climate neutrality and rewarding those who make environmentally friendly choices, which was promoted today by Indrek Neivelt. These are people who buy a more sustainable car or use social transport instead, but also those who make their factory more environmentally friendly. Of course, future taxes are also the issue. By 2030, half of today's jobs will be lost in the European Union and new taxes will be used in addition to or instead of labour taxes, such as the digital tax that Dmitri Egorov talked about in depth today. There is nothing new about new taxes in itself, but what is new is that we are probably facing some global taxes. Estonia's role in developing these taxes could be more active than today. We are a small country, but in certain areas our authority in the world is disproportionate, and we must take advantage of it. Tax reform is not always a tax increase, it may also be a zero-sum game. Could even take money out of the state budget for a short time. But we could build on a bigger picture and more ambitious goals. Life is full of surprises. This may be the case that the abolition of corporate income tax leads to more money in the state budget or, by raising alcohol excise duty by 100%, the state loses money. However, if we use our heads instead of Excel, the number of surprises will decrease considerably. Life will be boring, but progress will be faster for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U93	Thank you. Next, Riina Sikkut on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U94	Thank you. First of all, I thank the waitresses and I want to put it to all of us that we should get more together. We listened to three reports. The politician talks very carefully about graduated income tax, and the rest of the waitresses try to understand how our business is changing, our business is changing, people's behaviour is changing, and what are the possibilities of adapting the tax system so that it does not create distortions, but at the same time allows for tax revenue to be collected. I very much hope that we will continue to be able to hold an equal level of debate in this Chamber. And when you argue with the waitresses, you don't want to get personal. Let's get it together, discuss ideas, not these waitresses! Yesterday, for example, we addressed the draft law amending the Income Tax Act at first reading in this Chamber 106. We are changing the tax-free income regulation, such as maternity benefit, redundancy benefit and survivor's pension. These are undoubtedly very necessary things. We have also discussed, right here in the last six months, the additional tax exemption for pensions and the reduction of alcohol duty. There are still places in our tax system that can be clarified, dimmed, adapted. Making such minor changes is inevitable, it is part of our work. But we still have to keep an eye on the bigger picture. Now we have a window of such opportunities in front of us. In order to divert attention from what is happening in the government or not, the Prime Minister has proposed a tax banner. On the one hand, it is a substitute, but I think we should take advantage of this opportunity. Today's debate is proposed by the initiators to discuss mainly the increase in the tax burden and the progressive income tax. But I think that if the Centre Party has also proposed care insurance and digital tax, then they should also be put on the table. In fact, these are all such familiar and secure proposals. Their implementation would not change the current structure of labour, consumption and capital taxes. They would not really solve our long-term concerns; they do not have enough in mind the changes that are actually taking place. And now we're going to have a tax batti. But the extraordinary pension increase is EUR 7 minus income tax, because there is no money. You can't stick to a science deal, because there really isn't any money! Our tax burden is falling below 33%, the labour force is still highly taxed, but more and more people are not actually working on a contract of employment and working life is changing rapidly. Income inequality is high, it is amplified by asset inequality and assets are increasingly concentrated. Business models become more international and business moves from the physical world to the virtual world, but we still tax working and becoming rich, not being rich. And we dare not even create one tax rate. But as Maris Lauri said nicely, the only solution is not taxes. All these debates on the state budget there are, after all, more opportunities. If this example of non-funding of R &amp; D is given, a contract has been signed, it will not be respected. But what's it really about? Why did increased funding for R &amp; D prove impossible in this coalition? After all, this is hampering our economic growth tomorrow and, as a result, we are questioning how much money we have to pay for pensions or provide health care in the future. As Maris Lauri said, taxes are not the only solution. In fact, political courage can be summed up and the amount needed can be found within the limits of the existing budget. You could cut somewhere else. Well, if it doesn't fit, then to invest in the future, you can increase the budget minus. If there's no courage, if you can't explain it, if it doesn't work, then we'll get to the tax revenues. And it is certainly possible to do so in a way that is understandable and acceptable to society. Let me give you just one example. In all the discussions on car tax, it is very well described what we have in the car park and how much our car owners earn. Even with low incomes, we have very nice cars. One of my former colleagues vividly described how last summer our national economy was still hit seriously: the production input of Ferrari F430 was destroyed in an accident. But don't worry, at the time, there were 50 pieces of this type of production equipment in our traffic register. Moreover, 80% of them, fortunately, find value added in the production process at the service of some companies. Such high technology is, of course, at the disposal of our transporters. Unfortunately, children's toy manufacturers do not take into account our business preferences, but we have different toys here. For example, there's a stronger piece here, such a beautiful red one. [[Shows a red car model for the hall.]] I do not know if I dare say this now, but the Socialist election programme included, for example, the taxation of luxury cars, cars over EUR 50000. Even if we set a low rate of 10%, we would have found 25 million for science. It's actually a question of choices. But as we heard in today's debate, it is also a short-term solution. It's something that will allow us to survive for the next few years. If we look to the future and take into account the changes and preferences of both people and businesses, we actually need to think more boldly. On the one hand, all that sounded in this hall, which concerns pan-European taxes and digital taxing, indeed, companies are much bigger than the Estonian state. Our tooth won't start. And we can't do it alone. We do need international agreements, but we need to speak equally to others when they are concluded. We are terribly afraid of uniform income taxation. Income is income regardless of how it is earned, it is salary, business income, profit from the sale of assets. Why are we taxing labour income 2.5 times higher than collectively created business income, which is actually concentrated in the hands of a small part? I've told you before from this remote control that our income distribution is still incredible. In 2018, nearly one million earners received 80% of their income below the average wage. And from that we will earn our tax revenues. We are afraid of a progressive tax system. And that's what's scary. It is quite frightening that we are taxing 1% of the population earning nearly EUR 12000 per month at a rate of 20%. It's scary, and it's terribly unfair. And property taxes are no taboo. A lot of the quoted sentence 'What brought us here won't take us any further. ' applies fully to the Estonian tax system. We have economic inequality, great relative poverty and property accumulation. We have ambitious climate goals and rapidly changing working life, new platforms and business models. Let us not be afraid to look beyond the change in the tax rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U95	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland of Aivar Kokk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U96	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank all the performers, questioners and commentators who have been in this Chamber. A debate is always important, no matter what area it is. But I think today's debate should have started in a completely different direction. The state collects taxes, but if you look at the state budget for next year, which is 11.8 billion, it's a lot of money. Where's the money going? Is this money going where we politicians think it's right? Is it going to take what our people want or what business needs? Let's start with the fact that without entrepreneurship, there is no need to talk about tax bats. If there is no entrepreneurship, there is no return to be redistributed. From today's debate, I expected more to be said about where the money needs to be spent, and the other side: whether there are spending items in the state budget that may not need money in such a number. It's still important to see where the shoe squeezes most. The state budget has increased from year to year, while the number of people on taxpayers' payroll and very many different expenditures have also increased. We have seen over the last year that perhaps it is reasonable to reduce some of the taxes in order to increase revenue in the state budget. Let us give an example of the alcohol excise duty that was dropped in the summer. We have to admit that, if we have always thought that tax increases will always bring more money to the state budget, the last few years have shown that this is not the case. We always have to think this through if we want to raise something. Do we treat our people or businesses equally? Today we were talking about digital tax. I don't know how many people in this room have gone into such an issue as digital. But we treat companies currently operating in Estonia differently. If the Estonian press, whether on paper or in digital journalism, pays taxes in Estonia, then starting from Facebook from outside services, for example, and ending with Google, does not pay any tax. Is there competition in this market if a group of companies does not have any tax burden here and simply withdraw their income and distribute it somewhere else, while other companies must pay all taxes properly and still try to compete in this market? The second issue is whether it is right for someone to pay for someone's expenses. The subject of public transport was also discussed today. We need public transport, somebody, I don't think, to challenge it. At the same time, we should look at the cost of public transport from the state budget and at how much people actually use this free public transport. There are certainly places where free public transport is important, where private operators are unable to provide this service. However, if there are places where private businesses offer this service in a high quality and at a reasonable price, then perhaps the state should not go between them. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U97	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U98	And the other half is social. There is always a shortage of money in the social field. Always! Ask anyone, it's still missing. At the same time, I see that private business is very strongly infiltrated in the social sphere, and this is positive. Take, for example, nursing homes. Competition is very intense, many companies want to acquire one, another or a third nursing home when it goes on sale. Now, when I look at the allocation of millions to municipalities for the establishment of nursing homes in areas where a private operator has already set up a nursing home and where there are job vacancies, I wonder if it would have been more reasonable to put these millions elsewhere. We have talked today about progressive income tax. I wonder if we have to punish those people who struggle more in a good way, who try to serve more to support their family. There was also talk of tax and real estate tax on the land of home. That's my question. As a young man, I have built a beautiful home for myself, I mow lawn every year, I make a garden at home, I shove snow, and besides doing all this on my property, I do all this on the property of the municipality, and it's agreed that if I have a street property, I'm gonna mow the lawn there too. The walkway must be cleared of the snow by 7:00. You can't put sand on it anymore. You have to put fine granite in a piece of rock, and for your money. And then somebody tells me that I should start paying taxes for this house, even though I've built it with my own hands. I've paid taxes, I've raised children, and when I've reached retirement age, the tax collector comes to me and says you've built a very beautiful house. Yes, I've had to raise three children, and I have sons-in-laws. Yeah, it's a bigger house, but I've given it to society: all of them work and pay taxes. It is always necessary to consider whether this is reasonable for each tax. Estonia is one of the most effective tax collectors in the world and this is our plus. The taxes imposed by the State are also collected. In this debate, I certainly wish that, above all, we should discuss whether we have spent too much somewhere, whether we can save somewhere. And if there's still money missing, we'll discuss at the table whether we have to raise a few taxes. We are proud that next year will be the first state budget in which no tax increases have been planned. There are some things that have been decided in the past, and we are trying to resolve these concerns this week, whether it is tobacco or I am not going to say it with a loud voice, another increase in excise duty, which might be cancelled next year. These are our objectives: to stand up for our people, to stand up for our businesses and not to impose an unreasonable tax burden. In any case, the Fatherland Party is not yet ready to talk about any tax increases that directly affect the people of Estonia, whether entrepreneurs or ordinary citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U99	Thank you. All political groups have received the floor. Now let's go to the rest of the speeches. First, please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have often thanked the organiser in these discussions. I won't thank you this time because it's a failure. Somehow it is attempted to justify the idea that our chairman, Jüri Ratas, has been thrown into the air that we are going to debate taxes, but this is not a debate. One tax expert is invited to be a guest and is somehow placed on the edge to talk only about digital tax, which is a very technical subject. This is interesting, but it has not even been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Poor Dmitri Egorov, who could talk about the tax system, who has very good programme presentations, must talk about a small tax. It's a shame! And then there comes a citizen who will definitely hijack this whole debate for the press. Again his face, again what he says, even though he talks through everything and nothing. It also talks about the tax system, but it is completely systemless. Each of his statements we have discussed many times, and in that sense, all these issues are known in tax matters. But just line them up as wandering ideas is fine if you're representing someone. If you are either an expert or you represent entrepreneurs or you represent an average citizen. Indrek, unfortunately, does not represent anyone, and he could not justify why he was invited, other than that he had spoken a lot about the subject. Yeah, he said a lot today. Thank you for giving him these views, but it was sad to hear it. I am, of course, sorry if I offended him with the question of who he was invited here. It wasn't critical of him. But, frankly, if I'm listening, should I apologize if a person comes and says that more taxation is required for the sake of environmental sustainability, but the real environmental problem is groundwater, not CO2. There is no need for Riigikogu to line up this kind of skating ideas that should now be drawn from. All of his claims are contradictory, complex and many simply lies. But all right. Dmitri, unfortunately, spoke of 13 million as the only expert, but he should have talked about the system. In fact, everyone here talking about their ideas should have talked about the tax base of how we collect our taxes. Of course, we found out that Jüri Ratas' only goal was to raise the tax. Of course, he wanted to talk only about higher revenues, and his party also talked only about higher revenues, but nothing about structural reforms in spending planning. The real responsibility of rulers is to make wise choices in the interests of more efficient use of money. Dmitri was good again, he said that he did not want to debate taxes or, in fact, tax increases without touching the costs. Luckily, a publication put the title right. We actually need to talk here about tax increases, thanks to the Centre Party. However, we did not really talk about the tax system and, unfortunately, it is not possible to present a programme text in my presentation either. Yes, there are changes in society. Dmitri gave us the answer when I asked you that we are not really in a situation where the tax base is shrinking. However, it is not yet apocalyptic, I'd say so. And this gives me reason to repeat that the major problem of the Estonian economy, the Estonian state, has not been in the tax-free system. All politicians try to reverse it in preparation for every election. There are things that can be improved all the time, but not by organising a revolution. Speaking of which, of course, competitiveness. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U101	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U102	It was more ridiculous today. Actually, we need to talk about people. Who needs this economic competitiveness if not for the people? That is precisely what people need. Secondly, of course, the taxation of work is high, that is a fact. But when you take these big positions, you have to find the sources of cover. Today, we did not, in fact, get confirmation that property taxes could replace a significant proportion of the current taxes. We did not get that confirmation when some people said that consumption was too highly taxed and offered to replace it. In terms of competitiveness, the most competitive issue remains corporate income tax and labour taxes. So structurally, it's the wrong way to go when we're squeezing consumption taxation. After all, consumption taxation also has this important argument that it is linked to our climate problem, to our environmental problem, to the problem of the depletion of resources, to the global overcrowding and to the ageing of the population. Everything! From this point of view, the right direction is that we must maintain a broad tax base and not say that consumption must not be taxed. We didn't actually hear anything about exceptions. At the beginning of Kersti, I think, a little bit tried to call them after spite, but I'm sorry, the cost of an exceptional tax is the most inefficient place in the budget. After all, tens of millions, which go for exceptions, have also been shown socially that this money goes to larger taxpayers, not to weaker ones. In this sense, those talking about making the tax system more complicated spoke of foolishness. Once again, this should have been the subject of Dmitri's presentation. He would have made these things up and down for you. But we heard that hotel fees should still be differentiated, although it is known that their prices vary already in different places in Estonia. Nor are those who pay for these services the least in social terms. I will then repeat: tax exemptions are socially counterproductive, and the benefits will not be passed on to the weaker. This could have been said because it endorses a simple tax system with a broad base, low rates and competitiveness. And where social problems need to be solved, it is not the time for tax collection, but the budget. Any attempt to do otherwise is disastrous from a budgetary point of view, even though they are hidden. And the other one, where such discriminatory taxes are very much needed, is precisely bad habits and environmental burdens and damage. There must be a proper debate here where all of this can be discussed systematically, not systemically, as happened at the initiative of the Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U103	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm looking at the clock, time travels ruthlessly, soon the time for our hearing will run out. I therefore vote on the proposal of the Centre Party to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. First, then, the sally. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend the sitting until the item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. The issue is on the current agenda. Please take a stand and vote. There were 40 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the extension proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal has been accepted. Aivar Sõerdi next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the future of the tax system is certainly necessary. It is known that national tax systems are essentially from the 70s of the last century. The Estonian tax system is based on this book, I brought it with me. [[???Näitab raamatut 'Basic World Tax Code and Commentary'.???]] The 1994 tax reform was carried out according to this book. And, basically, this tax system still applies. It was a systematic approach, it was Harvard University researchers Hussey and Lubick's research into the ideal tax system. But, of course, it's been so many years since then. The world has changed, the economy has changed, employment relations have changed, digital services are in the market, and in many respects the tax system is simply running out of date. However, it was a systematic approach at the time, a comprehensive study. This debate today, in my opinion, does not bring much added value. We heard lonely ideas, lonely separate thoughts. We remember that a year or two ago we saw a similar experiment with individual taxes: the previous Ratas government brought on the table a possible car tax, a sugar tax, a mortgage tax. They failed. The revenue it was expected to receive from the budget was negligible. The collection of these taxes would have been extremely difficult and there was also great social opposition. After that, a tax truce was declared, but it seems that this tax truce will remain very short. The issue of initiating a tax debate is rather worrying. The future isn't rosy. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission spoke about the budget. Indeed, old-age pensions cost more than EUR 2 billion, and this cost will not be reduced but increased. At the same time, our total expenditure on pensions as a share of GDP is among the lowest in the European Union: 7.9% of GDP. The EU average is 12.6%. The assets of Estonian pension funds represent 18% of GDP, while the weighted average of the OECD is 133%. So at a time when we have reached a change in the pension system with our discussions, the situation is that the net replacement rate is 40%. To keep it safe, we need more money from the pension system. But the changes in the pension system initiated by the coalition will get the money out of the pension system. If the second pillar of the pension becomes similar to the third pillar, i.e. it disappears from time to time, then this reform will also have a negative impact on the productivity of pension funds: even the small amount of money in pension funds will allow for lower returns in the future. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U105	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U106	So the future is more concerned. As a result, Eesti Pank has a legitimate question as to which taxes we will have to raise to maintain the current net pension replacement rate of 40%. The initiators of today's debate said that the tax burden is too low. This leads to the conclusion that there is a plan to increase the tax burden. There are two ways to increase the tax burden. Firstly, better collect existing taxes. We look pretty good in this comparison with other countries. Our tax system, the tax administration, works efficiently. Consequently, the second and better option is to increase tax rates or introduce new taxes. But this, the other half of the story was left out today. Let us now look at today's situation. True, as the previous speakers said, excise duty on alcohol has fallen. However, this does not mean that the tax burden will fall next year; it will be at the same level and will even slightly increase. In particular, labour taxes are a problem. Under the new tax system, tax-free income will gradually decrease, depending on the amount of taxable income. The increase in wages leads people to a lower tax-free income category due to the special nature of the new tax system. From the very beginning of 1200 euros, income tax will start to rise sharply. And this is already the category of teachers, cultural workers, etc. who receive the minimum wage with their own income. The coalition spoke here about energy taxes. Well, we know that gas excise has increased for several years in a row and will also rise next year. This is no small thing, because it concerns the competition issue. Our gas excise rate is many times higher than that of other countries. Gas excise duties also affect domestic consumers, as well as district heating consumers, as the limit is also covered by gas. So the power union should actually also answer the question of what are the plans to mitigate the price increases. After all, with our price increases, we have been at the top of the European ranking for a long time. Of course, we did not hear an answer to that today. That's where I'm gonna end up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U107	Thank you. Marika Tuus-lauul next, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U108	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening today to these views, to the questions and to the whole debate, I had the idea to move forward, to look back a little bit. Perhaps we could focus on why it is very difficult for us to work with the Reform Party, for example. Firstly, we have completely different views on tax policy. We know what the simple tax system of the Reform Party is: it has been a consistent reduction of the tax rate from 26% to 20%. That is what it means to win the big earners, and they win very, very much. For example, if a person earns 500 euros a month, he or she wins about 150 euros a year as a result of a one-off reduction. But when a person earns 5,000 euros a month, he wins over 3,000 euros a year. So a simple tax system is never fair. That is why Europe has a graduated income tax system in almost all countries. I would remind you that, for example, in Finland, Italy, Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands, there are five levels, in Luxembourg as much as 17, in Portugal as eight, in Austria as four. In America, by the way, there are four levels of taxation. I also recall that there were 13 tax levels in the so-called first Republic of Estonia. Between 1991 and 1993, we had three tax levels: 16%, 24% and 33%, and 50% for a short time. When Mart Laar came to power, he introduced a uniform tax of 27%, which meant that the richers began to pay less and the people with lower incomes considerably more. I still do not understand why we do not want to go the same way as the rest of Europe. Why do we always want to stand on a stick with Russia, where, like us, we have a proportionate and uniform income tax? There is also exactly the same in Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine and I do not know, the Bahamas and Uruguay. And by the way, let us also remind you that, when it comes to taxes, there are also local income taxes in very many countries, such as Finland and Sweden, and quite high. A fairer distribution of the tax burden makes the country much more coherent. Of course, it is clear that the Reform Party has also constantly raised indirect taxes, with which people with lower incomes will again lose. After all, consumption taxes are regressive. As we know, the lower the salary, the more a percentage of the salary must be paid. And it is the Reform Party that has raised times, I stress, times! be subject to excise duties on fuel, natural gas, electricity and alcohol. There's an innumerable number of these times. Perhaps that is why indirect taxes are being raised so that the wealthiest can get more money from the state, which people with lower income will pay for. A simple tax system always means a thin country. For years, we have seen every opportunity the country has been filed thinner. Yes, if the economic situation is difficult, we need to make savings. But the Reform Party and its long-term coalition associates have always made it a pretext for the economic situation to cut everything and everything. The old situation will be allowed to be restored later, but nothing has been restored. We know that the social sector has always been cut the most. In healthcare, patients' participation has been increased over and over and over again, and we will improve it now. We brought more EUR 230 million into this area four years later. It simply needs to be done to reduce the order. In your time, you lost, I remember, reduced VAT on dental care, medicines and technical equipment, as well as increased VAT on funeral services, books and periodicals. You lost the funeral allowance that we recovered later. You've raised the value added tax on concerts and performances, it's going to be so long that I can't read it. You increased the overall VAT rate and cut municipal revenue. What has all this meant to Estonian society? I am very scared by the idea of your private insurance in health care. For example, in the United States and Europe alone in Switzerland there is private health insurance, which is still quite frightening. In Switzerland, you have to pay 500 euros per month in the middle of a person if you have a family with two children, you have to pay 2000. Estonia doesn't earn that much. These have been very firm views of the Reform Party for years. This social tax waiver, I do not know, would mean, in my opinion, a transition to a full private medicine and pension system. These solutions are not suitable for us. We cannot believe all their talk about the poverty and suffering of pensioners. For 17 years there was almost the same power, and we didn't see any action. We do not have a double pension, we do not have a long-term care system. More money to the people, tax-free Fridays, they have really been just words. So this system doesn't fit. The time has come to move forward with the tax system, and that is what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U109	Thank you. Next please, Erki Savisaar!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe you all agree that saving won't be rich. If anyone knows any international examples that a country has somehow achieved wealth through saving, I look forward to this information and discuss it. Nor will there be wealth if we move tax money from one pocket to another, for example, so that we let, I don't know, social tax somehow down and turn to income tax. It basically doesn't change anything. If the question is how to increase budget revenue, then the revenue comes from business and, above all, from exports. In this respect, I agree with Mr Ligi that the international competitiveness of our companies is extremely important if we want our country to be successful and if we are to have more prosperity. We need to focus on how to earn more value for the creation in our home country, our products and how to export this worthy result to foreign markets and thus earn additional income in Estonia. It is also worth considering how to consume more domestic products and reduce imports within Estonia, which takes money out of us. We must somehow overcome this dogma that we must do nothing in my backyard, my village, my county or my sea. We must somehow start to deserve more of our resources. A very important issue now is, of course, the preservation of the environment and different environmental taxes. Let us look, for example, at our northern neighbours. They are planning a completely fundamental tax reform, not to get more revenue into the state budget, but to change the structure of taxes. Their aim is to introduce a tax on the environment and reduce taxes on labour in order to balance it, which, in my opinion, is also a major opportunity and challenge in Estonia. With environmental taxes, we can reduce the labour taxes paid by companies for a while, and later decide how we will finance our social services. In order to finance it, it is, of course, possible to use not only taxes but also entrepreneurship, for example, through the enhancement of our mineral resources. It is certainly worth talking about cost savings. Here, of course, it must be said that most of the state budget expenditure is planned for us because of our involvement in GDP. Most of the state budget is spent on social services, internal security and also national defence. However, it is possible to make public services more transparent and automatic if we reasonably develop our e-state and use more artificial intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U111	Thank you. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U112	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good guys in the hall! It is quite a sign that only representatives of coalition partners remain in the hall. But if the opposition beats the coalition, then this debate has been of great use today. I'd like to leave a trail of local taxes. It was touched upon in a few speeches or issues, but these taxes also form part of a common tax system. As Kersti Sarapuu said earlier, the tax system is one whole. And this system also includes local taxes, because the state is a whole and the tax system itself is part of this whole. I am thinking mainly of the tourism tax, which is used by most countries in the European Union. It is even used by our Baltic neighbours. The northern neighbours Finland and Sweden have not introduced a tourism tax, but there is local income tax. However, local authorities are granted certain autonomy in setting taxes. It is not a magic wand to implement the local government budget, but the resources that are smartly and thoughtfully directed towards the tourism sector would release money to solve local problems. This would be a direct export service provided by local governments, as the paying agents of the tourism tax are foreign guests of the Estonian state. The money thus received could be directed specifically at local authorities. Compared to a number of neighbouring countries, we have a relatively low share of local taxes. Local taxes certainly deserve a wider debate and why not consider this issue as a debate in itself or as an important issue of national importance. It is gratifying that the latter have increased the share of personal income tax paid to local governments, but the dependence on the state budget remains high. The report on taxation of the digital economy, which has been criticised here, can be viewed in two ways, but in any case it is a sign of how volatile today's world is and how volatile the environment is around us. Today it might make some people laugh, maybe in the future it won't. The current coalition has promised a tax truce, as it was in the very first speech. Despite this, opposition politicians criticised the tax debate as, of course, an increase in taxes. That's certainly not true. Why not give local governments the opportunity to expand their local taxes now there are only six. Let's trust them! As members of the Riigikogu, we can give them this flexible option. As for the opening of the debate, however, the round-the-world journey also begins with the first step. Whether we took the first step today or have already done so, we will continue this journey! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U113	Thank you. Next, please, Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U114	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, It's been a very interesting debate. In fact, we should hold an analogous debate on a particularly hot subject, which is currently being heated up more and more in Brussels. This will also affect Estonia. What is the new ecological tax framework and what it represents? A little reminder. We are talking about climate taxes: because climate panic is huge, we are going to introduce climate taxes. The new leadership of the European Commission is very much in favour of this. We'll set up a meat tax! As we know, eating meat is the hallmark of a prosperous society: the more wealthy you are, the more you cunt the flesh. At the moment, the trend is rather the opposite: 'yes' for vegetarian food, 'no' for meat. Giving up meat is very pleasing to God. There have even been estimates: savings of EUR 35 billion; deaths are reduced by 220000 due to a reduction in heart disease. Of course it's a relatively small number. The price of processed red meat rises by 106 to 185%. Look at the potential we have! Of course, I don't know if that kind of talk goes to the Estonians. The sheep are, of course, entirely evil, much worse than cows and pigs, as far as climate neutrality is concerned. That is one such position. Or carbon dioxide tax. Germany has already calculated: EUR 10 per tonne in 2021; the price of petrol and diesel fuel will rise by 3 cents. The year 2025 is 35 euros per tonne, then 60 euros per tonne, etc. In any case, we're going to kill out the oil shale plants, the coal plants and everything like that. It's not a dream, it's the reality they're talking about. In Australia, this is already a reality. At first, they said nothing would change, prices wouldn't rise. When the decision was made, it turned out that it would. And a little of it turned out that if you start blaming the carbon tax on price increases, you could get a $100,000 fine. It's Australia! So, transport taxes, such as air and ship transport taxes. Remember, this Gretake doesn't want to fly a plane, and even his father convinced me he was sailing a boat. This whole approach can also become a reality for us. We do not agree with that. I do not agree with this, and our group does not agree with this. I don't want to get too long, but there's another important thing. In the European corridors, in Brussels, under pressure from the European Commission, there is growing talk about the need to introduce new taxes for climate neutrality. At the same time, the current rule of unanimous decision must be dropped. It's very important. Maybe not everyone knows that, but I'm asking you to keep that in mind. The aim of climate neutrality is to give Brussels greater rights in a broad area and, consequently, to reduce these rights by taking rapid steps. So the subject is crucial. Of course, local taxes are also important, as well as setting existing excise duties at the right level. But we are facing a very strong and growing pressure from Brussels and not just from Brussels:'meat taxes', congestion taxes, transport taxes, all kinds of climate taxes at all. Are we ready for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U115	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U116	If so, a few seconds. Yes, this issue is crucial and we should discuss it seriously, not with ridicule. I think that the people should also be asked whether the Estonian people are willing to change the total ecological tax framework. I would remind you that in 2050, in order to achieve climate neutrality, we will have to spend over 17 billion according to the current reforms. If it moves to 2035, the amount will remain the same. Of course, the results of the rehnung are clearly always increasing. If we are now contributing 2% of GDP to national defence, then in order to achieve climate neutrality, let me remind you, we must allocate 4% of GDP. So the situation is still very serious and this should be discussed very seriously by the Riigikogu in this Chamber. And colleagues' chairs should be filled with people right now I see completely empty lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U117	Thank you. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U118	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It has often been said that there is little debate in the Riigikogu, that there is no debate on topics, that there is no wish to discuss them. Here is a concrete example: one of the topics of today is the tax debate, which should interest all members of the Riigikogu. The question is which country we want and where we want to move forward. If we took the EUR 11.8 billion we have to share from the state budget, I ask: what would the opposition have done differently? There's just no more money. Maybe he would've stopped spending that $21 million on retirement. Perhaps something else could have been omitted, but it is not possible, in the main, to make a significant difference in the budget. Perhaps the best way to feel the state budget is if we are in a hospital and see the state of medicine. We know the salaries of these workers, the salaries of their orderlys, their nurses, their doctors. Then perhaps we feel that we could still contribute more and perhaps it would be more useful to implement another tax system. It's the same with police and rescue officers. If we are in trouble and we see that these people do not arrive in time, that they do not have this ability, then we are just sensing that something is kind of out of place. If we look at the happy countries, the countries at a much better level than us, we will see that they are implementing a completely different tax system. As well as the 50,000 people who have moved from Estonia to Finland permanently, the tax system there satisfies. There is progressive income tax in Finland as well as corporate income tax. After all, it is a fact that consumption taxes are no longer able to increase our budget as it has so far. The border's up ahead. What are we gonna do more? What, then, should Estonians start consuming sharply to increase the state budget? A very concrete example was the taxation of banks. After all, there are countries that tax banks separately, not only with income tax, but also with a separate tax. But the tax burden on our banks is relatively low and they pay when they have the mood and need. And I'm asking you, are all these countries all around you stupid? In addition to Estonia, which countries use the same income tax? Marika Tuus gave us this list. We would not want to be on the list of these countries; these are all countries that are worse off than us. Unfortunately, we do not have access to progressive income tax. This is demonstrated even by the number of people living below the limit of relative poverty. I would argue that without the application of progressive income tax there is no way of reducing the number of these people. One topic is corporate income tax. There are a lot of companies now saying that we are now agreeing on this tax. It must be clear and understandable. Companies are willing to pay it, but this system should not be complicated. The question is what the tax rate is. This percentage can be disputed and businesses are willing to do so, but it is so complicated that it does not make entrepreneurs very happy. Next: anti-competitive taxes, which make our consumption expensive. Every person pays for it. Take, for example, fuel excise: a table recently appeared, according to which we are quite at the top of the world in this order. Am I supposed to tell you which government was in power when these excise duties were screwed up so high? Fortunately, the previous government was able to slow down the 10% increase in diesel excise duty. We have an electricity excise duty of 4.7 times that of the European Union. The European Union has a minimum of EUR 1; we have a minimum of 4.7. We don't have to apply it! It affects all areas of life, competition, consumption, etc. The gas has also increased. A tax debate does not always mean a direct increase in taxes. The question is what is our goal, how we see our country, so that we are more happy that this country is more coherent. I mean, you could debate that. You don't mind. But it is particularly insulting when waitresses are insulted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-19_U119	Thank you. There is no further request to speak. I thank the Centre Party for organising this debate. I would like to thank all those who took the floor and all those who asked the questions. Today's first item is over. And since there was no proposal to extend today's sitting on the second item of the agenda, it will shift to tomorrow. Court is adjourned. Thank you. [[In the diner.]] The proposal was to extend the debate on this item rather than the debate on today's agenda. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 13.22 p.m.
