ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the briefing. Checking for presence first, please! 52 members of the Riigikogu are present, 49 are missing. The following members of the Government will take part in Question Time: Minister of the Interior Mart Helme in the role of Prime Minister. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'm sorry, it's not like that! I should have looked to the right. [[Laughing.]] We are honoured to have with us today Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg and Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Those who ask will receive the floor on the basis of a queue. Anyone who asks can ask one question, plus a question to be specified. There are three minutes to ask the question, and the honourable ministers have three minutes... Asker has two minutes, answerer three. Right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U2	Let's get to Question Time. The first is Jürgen Ligi's question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U3	Thank you. Mr. Ratas, I was actually thinking of asking these questions to Head of Government, Helme, but you have promised to take responsibility for everything, so I suppose you will answer it yourself. The Helmed family has spoken before the elections and after the elections that questions about the sources of money are out of place and that the structural balance indicator needs to be stopped, they have talked a great deal about innovative solutions for how to make money, what they had to do very well. Now many of these innovative solutions have also been heard. First of all, how do you raise police and rescue officers' wages? One offer has been that we take away the euro money from Elering and divide it between our own. This week, the idea of privatising the Estonian National Broadcasting was to take the money and pay it out as salaries. In addition, several sales have been mentioned as a solution to cover the running costs. How do these things work out for you? Do you have many of these innovative ideas in the government, how you apply them and what we could expect on the budget issue? We have been questioning the Ministers of Helmes here in the Commission, and it has still ended by declaring that things are now being done differently. How, Mr. Ratas?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you very much for this question on innovative fiscal policy. You spoke more broadly about innovative thoughts on your question. It can be said that the last five or six days have been very positive for Estonia. First of all, it is always important for budgetary policy and the financial world to ensure security and security. It is a great honour for me to say on behalf of the government, thank you to the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu, that the choice of non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the years 2020 to 2021 was very successful for us. This is very positive news for Estonia. There were several members of the Riigikogu from different political groups, certainly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, former and today's Minister of Foreign Affairs, the President of the Republic, other members of the government from the previous and today's government, certainly our diplomatic corps. So this is positive news. The second good news, which, more specifically, concerns the budgetary policy that you are dealing with, came on 8 June. On 8 June Standard & Poor's confirmed Estonia's long-term sovereign rating at a higher level with a stable outlook. According to the Agency, the new Estonian government will continue to pursue a similar economic and budgetary policy to the previous one and it is expected that the deficit and current account surplus will continue in the coming years. In a positive light, it was also pointed out that Estonia's debt ratio remains the lowest in the euro area. That's good news, too. The third good news came today. The IRS said at its press conference, based on, I understand, a research by the Institute of Economics that in 2018 the payment of envelope wages decreased. This is definitely a positive message. It was said that this also means that the new income tax system, I remember, before the elections, was a hard discussion that it could increase the payment of the envelope salary, did not lead to tax evasion, but rather suppressed it. Now I'm going to go into more detail in answering your question. Of course, I do not think it is right that we are going to use the cancellation of the investment component to cover running costs. Investments are known to take place in a very short period of time, a year or two, perhaps some of the larger ones will last for three years. When we talk about wage growth, it is still very long-term and permanent. So I'm sure you can't exchange these things. But yes, these are three very good news, and I am glad that you opened this innovation issue with your own question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U5	Jürgen Ligi, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U6	Mr President, I'd like my two minutes ago. No syllable hit the question in the answer. But I'm going to ask the second question right now, then I'm going to try the first one again, so I'm going to ask you again. I actually wanted to know what these miracle measures were. You're talking about an investment component, I'm talking about dividing euro money into wages. I was talking about what Mr Helme has said. He has been talking about how the sale of Estonian National Broadcasting gets money, how Elering's euro money gets paid and how they have very special tricks, how to get money into the budget. Try to concentrate and try to answer the question! Looking at the budgetary strategy, the use of hundreds of millions of euro money to balance the budget stands out. It's never been done before. Please tell me how you are thinking of going in the direction that the Estonian state will increase its dependence on euro money if so far there has been a strategy to reduce dependence, knowing that euro money, especially in net terms, especially as a ratio to GDP, will fall sharply. Do not mention the total amount, the relative share of euro money in the budget is significantly reduced and has never been used to patch up budget holes, but it is expenditure and revenue, equally on both sides of the budget. Please talk about these innovative solutions and do not talk about your reading this morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U7	Thank you. I think it is necessary to say all the news in Estonian society, and the good news needs to be said, so there is no sin or bad thing here. We are proud that Estonia has done very well over the last five or six days, these are very fundamental, positive signs. Now I come to your question. I understand (it was a little difficult to read out of your question, what you want to know for sure) that you want to know whether the money for privatisation of the ERR, yes, I saw this article, could be covered by an increase in wages in the area of internal security. Point 1, the government has in no way decided to privatise the ERR; there is no such decision. Nor does there exist a decision on the privatisation of certain parts of the ERR, certain radio stations or channels, nor does there exist such a decision. When we talk about the principle, I answered your previous question: if you take away an investment and try to cover the missing amount (finding the missing amount is, of course, necessary, I think the Minister of the Interior stands for the right thing, for an increase in wages in the field of internal security, it is an increase in the wages of rescuers and police officers, an increase in the salary of the workers of the Alert Centre, etc.) if, in theory, you try to cover it with investment money or with money from privatisation, which has not been decided either way or otherwise, I certainly do not consider it right. I don't think it's right that we're going to raise investment money to current costs. On the euro money you asked about, in the previous Question Time we had a very good discussion here with your groupmate, Taavi Rõivas. Javier also had concerns about the euro. At least I thought we saw it the same way about one thing. It is that we must all make an effort in the public sector so that we can adopt the euro as soon as possible at the beginning of the period, not wait three, four or five years, but do so at the very beginning of the period. If this focus is being made today, this cooperation is being carried out here is also a good helper of the Riigikogu, then this effort, I think, is definitely worth the effort and we could work together in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U8	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U9	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Let me make a point first. We can all read the news. If you have decided to amplify the news, do not only amplify the positive news for you, but also include negative news. That's where I come to help you. The Board's assessment of your budget was very critical, and today's recommendation from Eesti Pank to the government is also to save. Do you intend to listen to the recommendations of the Board and Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U10	Thank you. First of all, these messages, Mrs. Maris Lauri. Yeah, I get it, it's quite characteristic of our people, it's Estonian, so if it goes well, then what are we gonna talk about? But we have to talk, we have to talk. There is no way to deny what the Estonian External Action Service has done over the years and what very many members of your group have done. Why would we deny it? These have been good things. Now, more complicated things. Yesterday it became public that today's Minister of Finance has once again taken serious action on the subject of money laundering. I'm sure it's important. We need to see how we can take steps to resist money laundering and make sure that these things do not happen again. Unfortunately, I don't think we can say that everything is done. You asked whether the government was following the recommendations of the Board. I'm sure it does. One of the suggestions I have made here in Question Time was the following. When the Fiscal Council gave a presentation and an overview of the country's budgetary strategy in the government, they said that how quickly we see, say, the execution and execution of forecasts in real time, this temporal, let's say, the postponement is one quarter, but we should all make every effort to see earlier, we could get to the yes sooner than there have been some sub-diversaries that threaten the country's budgetary strategy, the state budget and forecasts. That is what I said, I have said publicly, that I think the cooperation between Eesti Pank and the Riigikogu and the government is important here. When it comes to saving, we need to see what the conjunction is. If conjuncture favors, say, the collection of reserves, then it must be done. If the conjunction does not favour it for a long time, it has been so many years now that interest does not exceed the cost of living, then the debt must be reduced. Today we see that the new RES foresees a debt burden of 6.3% in 2023, for example, which is falling.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U11	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue. On behalf of the Riigikogu, I apologise to the honourable Prime Minister for the questioner Maris Lauri left the Chamber after he asked the question, and I would like to put to my colleagues that if you ask a question, please respect the minister who will answer you. If you don't care, please don't ask me a question! Thank you. [[Voice in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U12	Let's go to the next... Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U13	Thank you. Yeah, I have a procedural question. Did I not notice that you asked for an apology from the speaker, the Prime Minister, who answered the subject completely and did not allow the Riigikogu to receive a reply?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U14	Yes, of course, questions and answers must be correlated, but no one can put words in their mouths to the questioner or the answerer, everyone asks and answers as they see fit. Thank you. Let's go to the next point. Mr Ossinovski has a question for Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U15	Thank you. Good Urmas! A few days ago, I heard you talk passionately about how Estonia cannot stand by, but must play an active part in finding solutions to international tensions and must be very active in the UN. Migration is certainly also a global issue, which undoubtedly requires international cooperation, including at UN level. In this context, it is quite strange that you probably agree that a person of the same name only a few months ago said that Estonia should remain by the side of the cooperation provided for by the global migration framework. At that time, you asked the Foreign Minister to send a letter to the United Nations informing us on behalf of Estonia that we would be excluded from this migration framework so that we would not participate in this cooperation. Now that you are the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I ask very specifically whether the letter that we are notifying the UN that Estonia is retreating from the migration framework has been put in place, and if not, when will it be? Finally, some people have begun to cast some doubt into the air that your conduct at the time was not merely pre-election hysteria, which I naturally would not suspect for a statesman like you. But why don't you make a comment on that? It wasn't pre-election hysteria, was it? And now it's become clear that the position depends on the seat? But the specific question is, if the letter has not yet left, when will it go?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U16	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Thank you very much for this sincere compliment. I'm trying to be worthy of that recognition. Estonia is really in the midst of positive news in both internal and foreign policy. I believe that the joint work that we are doing together to ensure that there is no quarrel, anger or hatred between us, but that we jointly pursue goals based on our national interests, could be our message to Estonia a few weeks before the song festival. As far as the global migration framework is concerned, of course, also the hesitation as to whether Estonia is legally or politically related to this document is unreasonable. In the case of the migration framework, Estonia must base itself on its conservative migration policy and clearly distance it from it. What lies ahead for the Estonian people in the near future is also positive news. In fact, procedures for monitoring the migration framework have already been established in the United Nations, and the Estonian representative does not really support the joint position of the European Union on these issues. Of course, we rely on our conservative approach to migration. As regards the clear, unambiguous distance from this document, these decisions are to be taken. There is no point in having legitimate concerns on the basis of the expectations of the Estonian people as to whether these promises and positions will be fulfilled. I will give Evgen the assurance that yes, these decisions and positions will be fulfilled in the near future. It is certainly very important that countries cooperate. However, this does not mean that the Republic of Estonia does not have its own national interests, its own security interests, its national interests and we do not defend them in international cooperation. Sovereignty on migration issues is a central starting point for understanding these problems. As for other news, I am pleased to inform Parliament that next year Estonia will be the organiser of the three sea summits. It's happening in Tallinn. Estonia has joined the initiative of these countries already three years ago and will also take the lead in the event next year. We are going on the right track, through positive news and defending our national interests as the Estonian people have trusted us to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U17	Evgeny Ossinovski, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U18	Thank you. I realized that letter was about to go. Well, we'll wait. The second question concerns your good fight partner, Mart Helmet, who recently said that Estonia should take its embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. I'm sure that's a question that doesn't leave you cold, personally. He said something like that when the EKRE became the Prime Minister's Party, the embassy would be taken away to Jerusalem with a clap. This has not happened yet, although the President of the sitting has already developed such a mirage, obviously. That's why I'm asking you. What is the foreign policy idea of today's government, whether the Estonian Embassy should be located in Tel Aviv or Jerusalem? The second question: who do you personally think would be better, Tel Aviv or Jerusalem, which do you prefer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U19	Thank you. Defining national interests in the context of international relations is not a matter of liking; these are practical decisions that we make in the international relations space. This view, whether the Republic of Estonia has made a decision or whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is planning to propose to the government to change the location of the Estonian embassy in Israel, has not been shaped, nor is there any intention to make such a decision, which does not mean that foreign policy issues, including international relations, could not be a legitimate debate place; there is nothing to be ashamed of. I think the questioner also referred to a vote by the United Nations General Assembly where our largest strategic partner, the United States, asked us to abstain from the vote. The foreign minister at the time considered it unreasonable to grant this request; it was a choice protected from his foreign policy interests; he had the mandate to do so at the time. But we certainly need to take a close look at international developments. Certainly, the Middle East issues are one of the sensitive issues and we will be dealing with this interesting issue seriously and intensively when our status as a member of the Security Council and, above all, the status of the Presidency in March next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U20	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U21	Mr. Reinsalu! You put the word 'people' in every sentence with pleasure, then definitely the word 'national', you flirt with it as if it were your personal property. But real ministerial work is a matter of external relations, of communication with other countries. In improving relationships, talent is expressed in how to formulate common things in order to do your own business. Will you also perform in international relations, in contact with other countries, that you came here with your national interests, and if you go home, will you tell the woman that we have personal interests at the forefront here, or will you try some diplomacy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U22	Thank you. Personal interests must be subordinated to the interests of the family; there is no doubt about this. I say that the sovereign rights of all nations must be accepted, but, of course, the interests of our people, of our nation's country, must be prioritised. Even if you remain in a minority, there is nothing wrong with international relations if you stand up for your national interests. According to your approach, I should have kept quiet at the Council of Europe Foreign Ministers meeting in Helsinki when most countries took the view that Russia's status in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe must be changed in a positive direction. No, as the first Minister for Foreign Affairs to speak in this round of speeches, I condemned this step. I found that this is not reasonable; it is undoubtedly not in line with the interests of the functioning of the international legal order, nor with the national security interests of Estonia; it is clear that the aggressor state will receive recognition in a situation where it has not descaled its aggression, but in the light of the last steps, it is clear, on the contrary, that it has encouraged the conflict and failed to meet the demands of the international community, as well as the agreements which it itself has signed. The foreign policy of an independent state is based on the protection of its own interests, which is the starting point. We must undoubtedly cooperate in the reality that exists in the world, but that does not mean that national interests should be ashamed or denied in an international relationship. It's not like that. So it begins that no one in the world stands first for our interests, we must do it ourselves. This is the responsibility of being an independent state and the inheritance that must be borne out by today's generation, the Estonian people, so that this state, as a sovereign state, will last over generations. Yes, I am not ashamed to use this rhetoric even outside this room and Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U23	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U24	Next, Signe Riisalo has a question for Minister of Justice Raivo Aegile. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U25	Minister, thank you very much. The action plan of the Government of the Republic reads that it is best for families to have both parents involved in raising a child, and parents should also be entitled to support for this. We can also read that the Minister for Population must prepare an analysis and make proposals for the creation of a family mediation system by November of this year. Family mediation is known to be the most related to family law and civil procedure. We have recently heard about the presentation by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve, to the Riigikogu that the great burden of civil justice is a very large part of family matters. So here's my questions. In order to reduce the burden on the court and to better ensure the interests of the child in parental disputes, could parents not agree out-of-court on the right to custody in the absence of a dispute, as the law does not currently allow it, and could this not be one of the ways of reducing the burden on the court? The second side of the question: can disputes in the family mediation process be both maintenance, rights of communication and custody disputes? I know the Justice Department has a slightly different idea. Thirdly, what do you think of the application of jurors to parents' disputes? Mr Villu Kõve told us last week that this is likely to increase the burden on the courts and make the process somewhat longer and more complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U26	Thank you. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Protecting the rights and wellbeing of children has been a priority in Estonia for a very long time. We certainly want to continue in this spirit, for example, in cases where the family is separated for some reason and custody must be determined, i.e. which parent the child is with, and, consequently, this system, how and on what basis the child's interests and interests will continue to be protected, for example, in the allocation of funds for raising the child by another parent. These activities, these processes, as well as this debate on possible legislative changes or changes to the framework, are, after all, actively being debated. With regard to specific civil proceedings in matters relating to children, the order of magnitude of these matters has been relatively constant over the years. About 4,000 cases each year are specifically related to children in civil proceedings; these are matters of family law. In a bit more detail: the actions (in particular the demand for maintenance) last year were 2380 and the rights of parents to children, i.e. the regulation of relations with children, which is a procedure without an action, dealt with 1284 cases last year. At the same time, it must be said that the Estonian court is one of the fastest courts in the European Union dealing with such matters. It certainly cannot be said that civil litigation involving children would have a very burdensome financial side and people would not receive assistance from the court, particularly because of the financial burden. It should be said that in family matters without an action, the state fee is EUR 15 and there is no state fee in maintenance cases if people turn to the courts for assistance. This is a development plan; the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs want to come up with their proposals by the end of the year on how to bring these additional opportunities in. One of the additional opportunities we have foreseen is the introduction of an out-of-court conciliation system, a conciliation system. But how can it be actually and finally implemented, it must be developed in the combined effect of the ministries. That is precisely what is meant to reduce the burden on the courts on the one hand. On the other hand, going to court is certainly emotionally harder for the various parties. If there is a way to find a solution without going to court, it will certainly be positive for both parents and children in terms of their future communication and communication arrangements with both parents.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U27	Thank you. I would like to ask you to stick to the times of response and questioning in the future, otherwise we may not be able to discuss all the questions. Jürgen Ligi, please! [[In the diner.]] I'm sorry! The question to be specified is Signe Riisalol and then Jürgen Ligi asks.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U28	Yeah, thanks! You admit that family mediation will certainly reduce the burden on the courts. I believe in it deeply myself. But the first part of the question was about custody decisions, which are all subordinated to the judicial system, parents cannot voluntarily agree on changes in custody. It was actually a question, it was not a question of the burden that we place on people, but that we are burdening the courts. The question was, like, the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U29	I'm sorry, maybe you'll be more specific, I didn't exactly understand the substance of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U30	Signe Riisalo microphone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U31	The first part of the question concerned custody. Would parents be able to make changes in custody by free agreement? Today's family law says that no change in custody can be made by free agreement. If the father of my child moves to another country and we want to give custody to one parent, then we can do this only through court for the day-to-day organisation of practical circumstances, and this will burden the court. I didn't tell you about the people. I asked you about the burden on the court.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U32	Yeah, absolutely. Discussions between ministries are taking place in the process of designing, which can always be further furnished and linked to problems that need to be answered. Of course, it is very rational to approach this matter in this way and to find answers to these questions. Certainly, if this intention to develop goes to the coordination circle, I very much hope that the Riigikogu will actively join this process, participate in it and make its proposals. As a leading ministry, the Ministry of Justice is very keen to cooperate actively in bringing the vitally necessary solutions into this whole process, so that the result is still the most normal and acceptable, especially from the child's point of view, so that the child does not lose touch with either parent, so that no power is created and that normal solutions are found.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U33	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U34	Thank you. Mr. Time! Your administration has come this week in combination with two very ugly news, which is a little connected to family and children's affairs. One news was that the prosecutor's office rejected the claims of the Minister of the Interior, which he made a week ago that there was no criminal case against Marti Kuusik, the investigation had collapsed, the investigation was not a criminal case, there was an interesting reasoning, and there was no evidence, there were no witnesses, there was nothing. The DA's office said there was a process, the process went on, and Marti Kuusik was called into question. The second news was that the government is partying with the Attorney General. Formally, the government really has to agree on this, but the alleged candidate of the Minister of Justice, I get news of this side by side, the current Attorney General Lavly Perling, and he has been starkly opposed by the same Minister of the Interior whose case has been overturned. Is it really the government's way of putting the Attorney General in place on the basis of party interests, or are you still putting in the candidate's name, whatever his name is, who you think is the best?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U35	Thank you. As far as this case is concerned, we have also been able to read on the news that suspicion of Marti Kuusik has been raised by the prosecutor's office and the proceedings are ongoing. What are the specific details of what this suspicion is made of, here I am unfortunately indebted to you for an answer. But politically, it wouldn't be right or nice to get involved in this criminal procedure in any way. I think that law enforcement authorities, under the leadership of the prosecutor's office, need to proceed with the procedure and come up with legal solutions. Then it is already up to the specific procedure whether the suspicion is being brought to court with an indictment or whether there are other decisions. As regards the issue of a specific person, the appointment of a state attorney general, the law contains a very clear rule: the Minister of Justice will submit a candidate to the government and the opinion of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee will also be heard. I have submitted one candidate to our coalition partners for discussion, this is today's State Attorney General Lavly Perling, and I have not begun negotiations with any other candidate. I hope that the discussions with our partners will move forward at a good pace and that we will finally reach a consensus on the candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U36	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U37	Next thing you know, Riina's asking for Sikku. The question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U38	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good George, you're very good. In Question Time last week, almost two hours answered questions to explain Mart Helme's behaviour and attended the G20 instead of Minister Kingo. But you can't do all the ministerial work. For example, Martin Helme is probably on his way to ECOFIN right now. On Monday, when answering questions in the Committee on European Union Affairs, he confirmed that he did not support the deepening of the Economic and Monetary Union. Can you trust that his speeches, as well as his conversations with his colleagues on ECOFIN, actually represent the government's position and those which were confirmed in the Committee on European Union Affairs? Can you trust Martin Helme?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U39	Thank you. I hope you don't mind if I start answering this question with a quote: 'The community can't divide into winners and losers, because if one loses all the time, it'll end up losing everything. We need to make sure that all changes come out as healthy as possible and do not carry a burden that goes beyond our means. " So, on June 9, Riina Sikkut, in this year, spoke, making a presentation, I understand as a candidate for the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party. I read from this quote that something must be done about inequality. This is, of course, a challenge for Estonian society, as is the construction of bridges, listening to others, and sincerely taking these questions and answers. So I actually quoted it. I understood that this was about the ELAK meeting, which took place on Monday this week, and where the position of the Minister for Finance of Economic and Monetary Union (Ecofin), as mentioned by the questioner, was at issue. In particular, the spike aimed at the ESM and whether the ESM, let us say, in the most recent or most complex cases, would help the banking sector. As usual, the government will discuss these positions before we come to the honourable Committee on European Union Affairs. That's what we did this time, maybe last Thursday at the study session. We said that we would follow the principles that the government has approved once. I may be wrong about the date, I'm sorry, but I think it was November 22nd, 2018. If you're asking me if I trust that what we agree collectively in the government will apply to Martin Helme and ECOFIN's positions, the answer is yes. It is clear that the ECOFIN debate is very much needed and there are also very serious issues that all of this may mean at some point to different countries. But if we are talking about the general principle of these Estonian views, after all, means the general principle of the principle, yes, that is what Martin said, that he comes from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U40	Riina Sikkut, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U41	Thank you! You really assured me that you would understand these things. I am not sure whether Martin Helme understands these things in the same way and actually represents these views. But it's really nice for you to have trust. The second question concerns excise duties on alcohol. The third reading of the bill is in this hall tomorrow. Both the procedure and the substance of the bill are weak, and it is such a bad bill that Jürgen Ligi started talking about health damage when he was on the board yesterday. I have a very simple question: George, should vodka be cheaper?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U42	We should drink less vodka. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] A little, good Riina, knowing you, I think you're actually asking about the principle of public health. Of course, you can snap and ask for a yes/no answer, but I think your heart is worried about the very thing my heart is worried about. It's access, it's public health, it's young people going to this vicious path associated with alcohol, and it's certainly the tragic consequences of alcohol. The cheapness or expensiveness of vodka, I think, however, is an important element of alcohol excise policy in terms of access to alcohol and public health. I always said when we talked about the increase in excise duties during the previous coalition, I think that is what both coalition partners have said, when we look back at the fact that there is, of course, border trade, of course there are implications for the state budget and the economy, for the flow of tourists. You know that in the government you always have to look at things as a whole. When you're in opposition, you can make big posters and say you don't know how many hundred million have gone missing, and you don't really have to take responsibility for what you say. (This was not a line at the Social Democratic Party.) Border trade continues to be a problem in Estonia, we see that this is a problem. We have agreed to cut the excise duty by 25%. Based, in particular, on the evaluation of the Ministry of Finance, but also on the external evaluation, it could be said that this could significantly reduce border trade, I do not dare say today that this could stop border trade, given the rumors that our southern neighbour can make in alcohol excise policy, we do not know exactly what they are doing. We know that the new Finnish government has said that they would rather increase excise duty. Border trade is not only between Estonia and Latvia, but has also been between Estonia and Finland for decades. So I will answer your question by saying that, in my opinion, when we are talking about excise policy, we must also consider other public health measures to reduce the availability of alcohol. In any case, the less alcohol available, the less alcohol consumed, the more I think this is the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U43	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U44	Thank you. Good George! In your government, there was a minister like Marti Kuusik. He was in office for 30 hours, certainly less working hours. You like to quote newspapers. This week, news came that Marti Kuusik is claiming 31000 euros lost. He says he was promised it, and he's entitled to it 30 hours ago. My question is: who promised him this? The Act of the Government of the Republic lists very clearly the grounds on which compensation is paid, and there is no voluntary departure from these grounds. Who promised him he'd get that compensation if he resigned? The second question: Do you consider such compensation to be fair, and do you consider it morally right to ask for such compensation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U45	Thank you for these three questions. First of all, yes, it is true what the good questioner said that there is no right to compensation if the minister resigns of his own will. It comes from the law of the Government of the Republic. The first question was, who promised him that? I was also at the meeting when he said that he had decided to resign, that there was a parallel to the resignation of Jaak Aab. At that meeting, no one allowed him any compensation. I did say at this meeting that, as far as I know, there was already a contradiction between the interpretations of the Ministry of Finance and the State Chancellery at the time. In any case, I congratulate Mr Aab here, who has now decided that he will pay back this compensation, and as far as I am concerned, a payment schedule has also been agreed. We can say that the interpretation of the State Chancellery at the time does not mean that today it would have changed; it was right that if the Minister resigns on his own initiative, he would not be entitled to compensation or it would not be right to pay it out. As regards all other personal issues, whether or not it is doing the right thing, Estonia is a democratic state, people can demand something and if these requirements are not met, they can go to court. I don't know if he's turned to court or if he hasn't, I don't know. I understand that my assessment was asked whether I thought it was right for him to demand it or not. I will answer myself in the key or through myself: if one day I work and then make my own decision that I leave this post, then I certainly would not demand compensation for it. At the moment, the position of the State is that, by virtue of the law, this compensation cannot be paid. If a person goes to court, the court will have to make a final assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U46	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U47	Next, Toomas asks Kivimägi and the question is Minister of Justice Raivo Aegile. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U48	Thank you. Very respected Minister of Justice! The system of freelance bailiffs has existed in Estonia for 18 years. At the Committee on Legal Affairs on 6 May, you said that the transition to a freelance bailiff system was correct. Moreover, you said that the private sector is more motivated to collect debts than public officials. However, contrary to the foregoing and your position, the Ministry of Justice has begun to break the organisation of enforcement proceedings, I would use that word. I note that this started before you arrived at the school, i.e. the Ministry. I admit there have been cases where bailiffs have failed to do their job. But it shouldn't be an incentive to break the system as such. No organisation is perfect, but in this case the correction of errors is in the hands of no one other than the State itself. The state itself has created this system, it has established these regulations, including, for example, the fees of bailiffs. At the same meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs, a ministerial official said that they do not consider today's system to be sustainable, because the work has been significantly reduced, but the number of performers is virtually the same. What does the state offer for a solution? Let's take some more work, hand over compliance with state requirements to the Tax and Customs Board. Where does that make sense? Perhaps the state wants to take matters easier to collect, but more complex and time-consuming for bailiffs. My question: why are they going to break up the freelance bailiff system instead of correcting mistakes? Is admitting that there is little work, but there are many bailiffs, the solution is that we take more work away from bailiffs?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U49	Thank you, good questioner! What's the problem today? After all, the problem is that in the past, the bailiffs' system was created as a private enforcement system, and it was the bailiffs who started to hold this profession as a liberal profession. This means, figuratively speaking, that they operate under the conditions of a free market economy. The situation is such that the number of claims that bailiffs would have to collect has decreased by about 50%, but the number of bailiffs has remained the same, i.e. 50% has also decreased their revenues, which in turn has led to a very clear selection by bailiffs' offices that are viable and not. A large number of bailiffs' offices remain alive because they can meet these same national requirements. However, while we are on the other side, it is clear that the handing over of state claims to bailiffs is considerably costly. The implementation of the system of automatic recovery will make it possible to significantly reduce the costs incurred by the State. This is the purpose of the matter that the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, through this same e-filling, is to set the simplest, most basic state requirements, which are mostly police fines, to be met by e-arrest. If this fails, or if, for example, there is a need for some kind of realization due to state requirements in the future, some kind of sale, then these things will still remain with bailiffs. So we are not going to break anything here, we are going to make the necessary restructuring so that the remaining bailiffs system is viable and effective and can effectively meet these requirements. Unfortunately, we have reached a situation where no party is satisfied: the state is not satisfied, bailiffs are not satisfied and the claimants are not satisfied with the effectiveness of compliance. That is inevitably the position. If we are still talking about the transfer of compliance to the Tax and Customs Board, it can be said that the process will also be significantly cheaper for those from whom these claims are collected, estimated ten times. So that those who have to pay those debts would be able to make it cheaper, satisfy their other claims or significantly improve their standard of living or the level of performance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U50	Toomas Kivimägi, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U51	Thank you. Good minister! Actually, that answer didn't convince me. I repeat once again: the main problem is that the work has been reduced, as you mentioned, indeed, in the last five years the work has been reduced twice, but the number of bailiffs has only fallen by four, reaching 44 at 48, I think. So what's the solution? Let's get the job done! I am saying that we are creating an even bigger problem for this system because the main problem is that there is not enough work, and the other part of the problem is that we are taking away the more easily accessible requirements. Of course, when the state looks at them, it is possible to process them more cheaply. However, my point of clarification concerns maintenance requirements, which have been a national priority. We must admit that, unfortunately, this has not been the most effective. One of the reasons why this has not been effective is that, in the case of maintenance claims, the costs of processing are significantly higher than the revenues received by bailiffs. Then there is no need to be surprised that they are not sufficiently dealt with. What does the state offer here as an alternative solution? We're going to create a National Maintenance Bureau, we're going to take care of these things! But I am quite sure that these costs will be several times higher in the case of the National Bureau of Maintenance than maybe the extra money that needs to be given to bailiffs to make it more effective than it is today. I have considered the Fatherland world-view favorite to the private sector. Or is this principle a thing of the past? In my opinion, it is also surprising that the question of whether the state could not take over the entire system, the whole enforcement procedure, is answered that it is too costly for the state, that what is costly for the state does not have to be costly for the private sector. A little bit of big Peter's syndrome.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U52	Thank you. We need to see where this wallet comes from. It is true that about 65% of the claims are state requirements. It looks like a very large volume. However, the fact is that three quarters of the total amount to be recovered again constitute private claims. So, actually, about all the money on the market that bailiffs could get, about a quarter would go to the Tax and Customs Board, three quarters would be left. The question is that there are too many bailiffs on the market. When we talk about political or ideological aspects, about the state's relationship with the private sector, bailiffs are like under market economy conditions, but on the other hand there are certain national regulations that hinder their ability to be in a market situation freely. So it makes perfect sense that the state takes certain restrictive steps and evaluates the optimal number of duty offices so that they can do well in the market. After all, the aim is not to keep 40 outhouses on the market, but to ensure that those who remain on the market effectively comply with judgments and maintain all enforcement procedures. In this respect, it is necessary for the state to take on the role of a certain regulator and to say that this number is effective and that these enforcement requirements are effective, which we leave to you, so that you can have sufficient income and motivation and can manage to maintain this system. As far as maintenance requirements are concerned, we talked in the Commission about one possibility that the state would take full advantage of it, but this was one of the options that we have highlighted. Actually, consultations are ongoing. There has been a "cross-subsidisation" of performers, a part of profitable claims was taken that met the requirements for maintenance, but the proportion of profitable claims has decreased and the state has to find solutions to assist in taking them as a "state function" or helping enforcement to do so. One of the options is that, rather than cross-subsidisation, it is also compensated or supported in some respects by state budget resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U53	Thank you. Unfortunately, there is no third question and there are no other questioners. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U54	Let's go to the next question. Katri Raik will ask the question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U55	Honourable Chairman! Good George! I will return to the subject of Ida-Virumaa for a second week in a row. If you look at the Estonian media, you can see that this issue is far from being a question of Ida-Virumaa energetics, I mean layoffs and forced holidays, that is the whole question of Estonia and certainly not just the issue of employment. There are quite a number of signals from the public that confuse us. The Minister of Finance Martin Helme, who represents the general meeting of Eesti Energia, has confirmed that the current government is psychologically prepared to pay the miners and energetics of Ida-Virumaa to prevent both the energy supply of Estonia and the local socio-economic crisis. It is a social issue that is also called by Elering's leader, Taavi Veskimäe, who has confirmed that we do not need a Narva station to ensure electricity supply. The leader of Eesti Energia, Mr Sutter, has said that we need a station for our energy supply, but this is a political issue. The people of Estonia are confused, they want to know how we have energy security, it is absolutely clear, but it is also confusing for 1300 people on forced leave who today no longer believe that their jobs in the energy sector can be maintained. I have to say, aside from this, that today there was training in the Riigikogu on the subject of close-relationship violence, which stressed that last time, when there were large redundancies in Ida-Virumaa, domestic violence also increased strongly. That's a very broad subject I'm trying to ask you about right now. But my specific question is whether, in fact, given the current state of the oil shale sector, it is still responsible to allow people on forced leave to work in the same sector. The second part of this question: when will the government make a specific decision between the various variants that are on the table about Eesti Energia, when the people of Ida-Viru County and the entire Estonian public will learn about it, and what will happen exactly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U56	Good questioner, thank you first for this question. I say this quite sincerely, because you can feel for yourself, being very familiar with the situation in Ida-Virumaa and Narva, how much problems this is. The messages that have reached society from Eesti Energia are, in my opinion, very worrying, but I assure you that the government is working very hard to find solutions. I would like to say both to you and to the other people of Ida-Viru County that the government stands by not leaving anyone out of work overnight, being sent to the streets or left to itself and to fate. You mentioned the Minister of Finance Martin Helmet here, who is also the general meeting of Eesti Energia. I certainly recognise that Martin Helme was yesterday in Ida-Virumaa to deal with this issue. I know Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, was in Ida-Virumaa yesterday, he met with people from industrial parks. This problem, which is now, has been known for a very long time. In my opinion, on the one hand, we need urgent action to prevent the most complex, worst-case scenarios, but we also need to take measures that actually give these people confidence, both in the short term and in the long term. I do not think we can get over or around what is a longer view of energy policy. This means that, in the long term, the competitiveness of oil shale electricity production will certainly change and change in the direction of decline. All these factors must be taken into account together. We have developed and are working on short-term solutions, a little longer-term solutions and certainly those that, in the long term, would contribute to the development of Ida-Virumaa and the whole sector. Thirdly, social and labour market policies are certainly important. I understand we're going to have a conversation, then I'll give you a more specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U57	Thank you. Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U58	Unfortunately, I did not get a very clear answer, but I would go from here to ETV+, if I may. Among the people of Ida-Virumaa, especially Narva, the most popular Estonian media show is probably 'Narodu Važno' ('The People Will Care'). Everyone in Narva knows this show, it's being discussed in every home. Yesterday, a joint study of the state and trends of media policy between Tallinn University and the University of Tartu was presented at Tallinn University. It warmed my heart because it showed that ETV+ has justified its actions in every way. 110000 of our Russian-speaking people watch ETV+ for at least five minutes each week. In my opinion, two of the three people will be able to watch our Russian-language TV shows in this or another way. That's a huge amount. More facts. More than 50% of our Russian-speaking population will find this year that ETV+ is very important to them or rather important to them. Perhaps only a few percent higher is estimated at PBK, RTR Planeta or other Russian-language channels. But it is especially important that the Russian 'Actual Camera' is considered the most reliable, 10% more reliable than the PBK news, than 'Veremjat' or 'Vestit'. In this situation, we can be sure that if we have a crisis situation, I hope that it will never come, our Russian-speaking person will turn on ETV+, not another country's channel, and will receive information from it. I would ask you to say once again that the sustainability and development of ETV+ are very important, and that is also the question of internal security, whether ETV+ will not be privatised.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U59	Thank you, good questioner! I will first come to the first question, which you said you did not get an answer to, and I will certainly answer your second question. Firstly, in the short term, energy policy and oil shale energy have the following solutions: One is international cooperation, cooperation between the three Baltic States. When we are talking about commercial electricity coming from Russia on the commercial side, I would stress just that the tariffs for the use of the grid for maintaining the Baltic electricity system could be used here, based on costs not covered by the Russian electricity importers. But I stress once again: this is the case with commercial electricity. Secondly, the production of oil shale electricity could be replaced, at least partially, by the use of biomass, which requires a change in the law, but would partially ease redundancies in Ida-Virumaa. In the longer term, it is possible to form a strategic reserve for electricity generation and to pay for reserve capacity. The aim of this measure is to ensure energy supply in a situation where there is a market shortage, i.e. at peak times. The measure naturally requires the application of a State aid authorisation from the European Commission. In addition, Eesti Energia will be able to orient itself into oil production from oil shale and find ways to provide comprehensive support to Estonian oil shale producers in establishing a joint new refinery. This requires cooperation between the private and public sectors and would provide additional certainty for producers to speed up the transition to oil production. If we move forward from the energy market, we should review in the long term how to revive entrepreneurship in Ida-Virumaa and reduce the region's backwardness from other areas of Estonia. The Ida-Virumaa programme, which will be funded with €14.7 million until 2023, is already underway for this purpose. This includes the programme for the establishment of industrial parks in Ida-Virumaa, which is actively dealt with by the Minister of Public Administration. Thirdly, what I have said to you is, of course, social and labour market policy. This needs to be dealt with constantly. Now I will answer your second question within half a minute. I remember that it was only recently that we allocated EUR 300000 in order for ETV+ to be free-to-air across Estonia. It's there now. In addition to the ETV+ news, this rating is certainly much higher than the overall ETV+ rating. If we compare whether we can invest as much as perhaps our neighbouring country, then it is understandable that we cannot. Do I support the continuation of ETV+? Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U60	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U61	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! The question is a bit of a different area. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Riigikogu, the election of an extraordinary chairman took place in connection with the resignation of the chairman of Jaak Madison and the move to Brussels. Mr Paul Puustusmaa was elected new chairman. In the opinion article 'The criminal organisation leading the Estonian government must be dissolved', published in the Estonian Päevaleht a year ago, Mr Puustusmaa, a member of the EKRE and elected chairman of the committee, wrote: 'Estonia's law-abiding citizen is in an incredibly extraordinary situation that has not existed throughout Europe since the Second World War: we and our country are essentially ruled by a criminal organisation! This is contrary to the rules of the Constitution and takes place with the tacit approval of those in power. ' Criticism was about the Centre Party. Mr Puustusmaa also confirmed to the Postimees a few days ago, on 10 June, that his opinion on today's coalition partner has not changed: 'Juristina I am convinced of this today, too, but I do not have the authority to disband them. I was just informing the community about the problem. ' Mr. Woodland estimates that the continuation of the Central Party convicted of criminal offences is contrary to the Constitution. My question to you: does it not seem to you, given the high level of sins of the Centre Party, including the spending of money, that your coalition partner, the EKRE, at the appropriate moment and, frankly, maybe a fair one, maybe stab your party in the back, figuratively speaking?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U62	Mr General, I thank you for this question, but I was shocked by the thought you expressed that, in some respects, the Centre Party might be stabbed in the back. I hope you do not share this principle, it was a little too complicated for me, that, indeed, General, you think that stabbing a knife in the back can be justified somehow. I don't think I can. But I remember that in the previous composition, Mr Herkel and I had a lot of talk about the Centre Party's finances, and I always thanked him for helping to make the finances right and worried about it. I said many times that really, good Andres, come help us, come to our party. Now I see you've taken over this stick in a good way and you're worried about the Centre Party's finances. Of course, I cannot say that the party has done the last, I don't know, in ten years all things correctly, that has also been demonstrated by legal proceedings. I have always said that today's leadership, which has come into office on 5 November 2016, has a desire to resolve these issues in any case, so that the Centre Party does not have to deal with defending and clarifying its rights in court at all times. I never said that everything was fine in our history. If you want to give your good advice and contributions, you are welcome in any case. We do need good people in the party, so we could definitely work together here. But what one politician, another politician or a third politician, the honourable Ants Laaneots, has to ask each person himself. I'm not the mouthpiece of anyone who talks about what a politician thinks about these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U63	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U64	Let's go to the next subject. Urve Tiidus has a question for Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There are nearly a few hundred countries in the world and all those less, who more, compete for markets and attention. Competition is increasing. To add that, in the early 21st century, more than a quarter of global production is exported and tourism is considered to be one of the most important growth-enhancing sectors, it can be said that the focus of work and the winning of markets is endless and wins those countries whose work produces the result. For nothing, the idea of creating a separate foreign trade and business ministry in the Government of the Republic was not born in Estonia a few years ago. In an interview at the time, Minister Mrs Sulling said that she did not have any major drafts, she is an atypical minister, she is a salesman, she helps to promote exports and bring foreign investments here, i.e. into Estonia. From far-reaching history, the Japanese Prime Minister Ikeda is remembered in the early 1960s, whom French President Charles de Gaulle called the transistor salesman. The impact of Ikeda on Japan's success in global competition is also highly appreciated afterwards. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology, who has recently taken office, on the long list of responsibilities of Mrs Kingo, has a foreign trade field and directing the activities of the respective structural units of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I assume you and your colleague have already made plans for cooperation. If not, what do you think are important activities between the two ministries so that Estonia's exports and investments in a changing world will progress and benefit local business and people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U66	Thank you. The question of whether the division of labour in the government, also concerning the work of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology, has been put in place: yes, it has been clearly set out. The Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology also coordinates the foreign economy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These briefs have taken place, current activities and a government work plan in this area exist. At government meetings, I can tell you, dance and chasing have also been about language, whether or not language is spoken, what language is spoken, and what language is not spoken. At government meetings, we have had very constructive and interesting discussions with Mrs Kingo. Let's remind you that there was a foreign trade when Jürgen Ligi was sitting in the government, in the hands of Edgar Savisaar. Savisaar didn't speak English either, but somehow he was in office as Minister of Economic Affairs. Arnold Rüütel doesn't speak English either, but he got his stuff done. Päts knew Latin, German, Russian, he didn't speak English either, did he? Estonian statesmen and stateswomen have different language backgrounds, but this does not mean that their work cannot be done with passion. If there is a lack of skill, then it must be compensated by efficiency in another area. If the government is clear about responsibility, whether the division of labour is in place, whether the work plan is in place, then I can give a positive answer to all three questions in peace of heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U67	Urve Tiidus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U68	This particular question is still for you, Urmas Reinsalu. You have considerable experience as a politician and also as a minister. The proactivity of your recently appointed colleague, Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology, Mrs Kingo, will depend on the performance of the processes that are crucial to Estonia during the reign of your coalition. I will mention just a few: the organisation of export development and trade defence measures, the involvement of investments, innovation, tourism. It is tourism that is a fast-growing industry around the world. It is expected that in 2030 the world's middle class will be 5 billion people, i.e. two thirds of the world's population, and it is these people who will boost tourism. Since we all want Estonia to do well, what suggestions do you make to the Minister in the important field, whose views have recently been highlighted by the media as focusing on national issues? In your previous reply, you said very nicely that you had a division of work done, that the plans were in place. However, the specific question: what recommendations do you make as an experienced politician, as a minister, perhaps in the light of the information highlighted by the media, in order to have more domestic activity and perhaps less international activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U69	Thank you for a very thorough, very interesting and intriguing question. One question I have considered it important to provide Mrs Kingo with all the information, we have also been in contact with the Prime Minister, about a very important and specific tourism marketing project. This is the European competition for the global gastronomy competition, organised by Estonia next year. Mr. Demjanov came to me and said that Tarmo Tamm and Rene Tamm and who were all those who had promised to take the competition, and that money and order would come. But now Mr. Demjanov was worried that there were promises, but there was no money. The bills have been issued, the billors are no longer in government, but this is one of the issues that we need to look at seriously, because it is such an interesting project. After all, we are talking about over 10,000 tourists coming to Estonia because of this project, and I think this tourism project should definitely be done by the government. I hope that, in cooperation with Mrs Kingo, we will help Estonia in this area, also in the field of food culture, to the world map. What concerns the environment of foreign agreements is the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the case of double taxation and investment protection agreements, I am not satisfied with the pace of the Estonian state's organisation so far. Here is the real money, the economic interest, the economic defence interest of our companies. I have considered it important to draw up a concrete plan until the end of next year. I consider it reasonable, as it requires joint action by several ministries, to propose in the near future to the government that the government should start monitoring regularly, as was the case with the use of European Union funds, how the transposition and conclusion of other agreements protecting double taxation and economic interests with third countries is going on. This is an important subject. The third network of topics concerns our economic diplomacy interests. This is a circle of topics that will find an important approach in the new foreign policy development plan. The government will certainly discuss the new foreign policy development plan in the near future. We will also present it to the Riigikogu and this Riigikogu feedback will certainly be very interesting and important and the external economic dimension will be strongly represented there. This is certainly a platform for cooperation between all members of the government, above all, Mrs Kingo and my platform for cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U70	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U71	Thank you. It became very confusing how you came to my mention in your reply, in fact, it was about Kert Kingo's actions. As Foreign Minister, how do you appreciate the tactic that foreign economic relations are being developed in a remote form from somewhere in Estonia and that they say their main responsibility is somewhere in South Estonia? Is it practical for you, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, and is it worth keeping a position that, as I understand it, will partly coordinate your actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U72	Thank you. Let's say they coordinate the activities of one of the ministerial units under my authority, not administratively, but in terms of 'content plans'. No, I am not demoting at all, I am not demoting at national level, which concerns the responsibility of the Minister of Information Technology for developing the strategic infrastructure that is undoubtedly important to us, and I am not demoting the role of today's forms of international diplomacy. When I was in New York, I was discussing matters with the Finnish Foreign Minister and communicating with foreign ministers all over the world. As far as distance communication is concerned, neither the baroque format nor the naive idea that there is a classic state visit, where three or four days of carriages are driven, are proud parties, dinners, is not an exclusive format of modern diplomacy. The format of modern diplomacy is purpose-based, which means that contact must be achieved and work must be as effective as possible. That is also the case with the international protocol. According to the protocol, what was in force ten years ago, I mean, with the Frak Reception Queen, has changed, time has changed. We are also seeing significant changes in the environment of international relations. To the question of whether the Minister must focus on his objective, to work as effectively as possible, my answer is, of course, yes. Every job must be done with a heart. The evaluation of the Minister of Economic Affairs Savisaar can be given by you. You and Savisaar sat in the ears at the government table, that's what I meant. Experiences must be shared with younger colleagues, people must be reminded, conclusions can be drawn from this information. A comparative basis, a comparative assessment, is one of the important methods of drawing objective conclusions in politics and social sciences.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U73	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U74	Next is Liina Kersnal's question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U75	Thank you. Prime Minister! A week ago, right here in Question Time, you repeated your idea that no one should be insulted, no one should be discredited. Yet we read in the media how your government ministers call women's doctors murderers and journalists rabid dogs. The latest expression is that scientists are red professors and stupid people. When we presented a motion of distrust to the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior said from this very floor of the Riigikogu: 'Dear People's Ambassador! Don't want my words to come true. Don't! If you really want to, you might get hurt. I don't know what's gonna happen. Don't! " These are the words of the ministers of your government. The question now is whether you regard such statements as insulting and derogatory, or whether you consider them to be insulting and derogatory. How have you furnished your responsibility as head of government for using the word of ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U76	Thank you, good questioner! I continue to believe that in society all people must be noticed, regardless of their home language, nationality, gender, political beliefs, as our constitution also states. If you're quoting the Minister of the Interior, maybe you'll let me give you a quote. The quote comes from June 9th: 'The amplified use of words by some members of our party through media channels also makes me very concerned. But adding additional adjectives to the name of our party is more than sad. I would just like to give you one example. Our party is called a party with a'misogynous face'. It took me a long time to find out what that word means? Turns out we're a 'woman hate' party? How can such a use of words apply to our party? As a representative of the older generation, I dare say that there will never be a justification for subjugating another person or group of people. It's a moral question. It's a matter of our nursery. [---] For the first time since Estonia regained independence, we have a government that can stand up for sovereign Estonia. Hence the hysterical confrontation. Without selecting resources, attempts will be made to break the resulting coalition of government. ' Next: 'Once again, I call on you all to respect the universal moral standards, particularly those adopted in the European cultural space. We try to organize our society on a daily basis so that our small country has less evil in communication. " That is what President Arnold Rüütel said at the EKRE Congress on 9 June. As far as I know, he is also the honorary chairman of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. I think he said the right thing. This is basically the same idea as I said last Wednesday, and I think you too take the view that we would have less hatred, less intimidation and bad words about people or fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U77	Thank you. Specific question, Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U78	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! You have said that at some point this must end and that your coalition partner has an adjustment period. Could you please specify the length of the adjustment period for one coalition partner, whether we are talking about months, years or days? When can we expect these insulting expressions to end in different social groups? How long is the adjustment period in your government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U79	Thank you. I understand you want to know the timetable. It's quite difficult to judge. I know that there have been good members of the Riigikogu, who have also been in government several times, who came to the Riigikogu in the mid-1990s. I'm taking a quote from 2009, it's a message from a publicist to a journalist. I'm so sorry, I quote: 'Infected son of a bitch, burn yourself! ' I understand that was said when Jürgen Ligi reviled Kalle Muuli, an indiscriminate journalist at the time. So I can't tell you what this timeline is or the period is saying that that way, I don't know, I can't be in government, politics or the Riigikogu any longer. I think this schedule is nonexistent, it can't be, it can't be one second long, let alone one week, a month or a year. I think we all have to work hard to make sure there are no such statements. So if you ask me the answer to what this timeline is, I'm saying there isn't one, there can't be one. We can't use such derogatory expressions for another person, that's my principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U80	Mr. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U81	My name was mentioned. I'm asking the Prime Minister not to spread rumors here. That's the kind of thing I never told Kalle Muul, I never told anyone. I've used a word game somewhere that Kalle Muuli thought was about himself, even though his name had not been mentioned. There is a big difference between saying something about a person and considering a text as a testimonial of yourself, a very big difference. Please don't fall so low! I'm really sorry about the rhetoric about EKRE, but it's about the substance. Actually, it's not a rhetorical thing, but in the case of EKRE, it's a matter of substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U82	Thank you. Andres Sut has a question on the same subject. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U83	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior of your government, answered my question that if an emotional moment leads to either not remembering or lying, how can you trust such a minister, as follows: 'But you don't trust me anyway. So to be honest, I don't care if you trust me or not. ' Such an answer raises the question of whether your Minister for the Interior understands who is the employer here and who is in the role of employee, whether the employer is the Riigikogu or whether the employer is the government. I have a question for you: how do you comment on Mart Helme's answer and have you explained to him who is the employer in this situation and who is the contractor?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U84	Thank you. It is not my job to comment on the Riigikogu's domestic and operating rules. I've had the honor of working here, too. A procedural question was asked in the Riigikogu Question Time, I cannot tell you exactly how it is stipulated in the Home and Working Procedures Act, whether or not this possibility exists, but this question was asked and I will start answering about it. When Mr Ligi said that it was a question of substance, I think he said very rightly. I did not answer Katri Raigi's question simply because the Minister of Finance was in Narva, Ida-Virumaa, yesterday to solve the issues of Eesti Energia, to solve people's and economic issues, to solve social issues. The Minister of Finance is a member of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I believe he was sincere in trying to find the best solution. This letter, to which I referred and which was sent out by the Minister of Finance, was similarly affected by money laundering. This is a very substantive question. So, yes, in that sense, Jürgen Ligi is right, it's always about the substance. Now, Mr Sutt, I will answer your question, who is the employer and who is the contractor. We know that we have a separation of powers in Estonia, point 1. I believe that the separation of powers must be based on today and tomorrow. The separation of powers provides where there is executive power, where there is legislative power, where there is judicial power. I deliberately put in more press, media, who is the so-called fourth power. I have so thought through it for myself that the Riigikogu is superior to the government, the government is accountable to the Riigikogu. If you ask what a politician or a politician thinks about it, ask him. A member of the Riigikogu has the full right to ask in the corridor, to ask a written question, to ask in the form of an inquiry and to ask in Question Time how one or the other politician sees it. I will not answer you for all Estonian politicians how one or the other politician sees a hierarchical position in the separation of powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U85	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U86	Next, Mr Kaljulaid will ask the Foreign Minister, Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs! As we know, the formation of this last government coalition attracted quite a lot of international media attention to Estonia and resulted in a large number of negative entries and headlines. I remember you then promised yourself that you would work actively to improve Estonia's reputation. Knowing you, I am sure that if you do something about it, indeed, you are doing your job exceptionally actively, then you will certainly be effective. I would ask you to describe to us what steps you have taken so far to improve Estonia's reputation, they have been successful in your opinion and whether Estonia's reputation has already been improved during this period. What is your assessment of this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U88	Thank you for your good words. Congratulations on the election campaign of the European Parliament based on modern social media information operations! Very interesting campaign in Estonian politics, there is much to learn from it. First I met the state of the art. The state of the art shows that this domestic policy-making has been carried outside Estonia. We have had a consensus for 30 years that we are not trying to win internal political points in the international auditorium. That is a fact, I am telling you honestly right now what has really come up. I must admit that, of course, there have also been objective, honest issues with regard to the new coalition. I have considered it important that these questions be answered as much as diplomats and foreign journalists have asked me. Just yesterday, I met journalists residing in Estonia who produce news for the foreign press, and we talked to them about interesting foreign policy issues. But what I want to say is that Estonia's reputation has nothing to do with its nature. Every country, every nation chooses its own government. The trees of the government, as I say by referring to the Scriptures, are known by the fruitage. The policy of this government is known for its political steps, its actions. It is certainly a sign here in the Security Council to win the support of more than two thirds of the other countries with the right to vote in a fair fight with Romania. As regards Estonia's reputation or, more generally, the place where it needs to be more active, my objective assessment has been that of reflections, which unfortunately also has the Estonian name gone through, that it is international money laundering. I had myself printed out to feel these things in physical form. The news stream related to the new government's taking office, whether less or more critical, brought together such a small mapka. Then I told you to print me everything that's appeared in the Western media over the last 12 months about money laundering. The printer's jammed. A package like this, a black folder like a little box on my desk. I have considered it important to deal actively with these issues. We have different activities in planning. But the key issue is trust and honesty and courage and the desire to explain our positions. This is a central and important starting point in international relations, as well as in human relations and politics. So if there are any questions, they have to be answered. If there is a question of whether my colleagues have complained to me or said that things are wrong in Estonia or that there is a shame and what kind of dance and chase you have there in Estonia, then I can assure you that the answer is zero. There has been no such thing, no negative assessment has come from other countries. And there won't be any. I will not report to the countries of the world how they have to make internal political choices in their country. There is a system of international relations, and on this basis countries operate with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U89	Raimond Kaljulaid, the question to be specified. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U90	Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, thank you for your comprehensive response. I am, of course, not very surprised that in the last 12 months, money laundering has appeared somewhat more than in the last two months concerning the government. I guess there's a six-fold difference between these periods when you think about it mathematically. But, of course, the Minister of Foreign Affairs doesn't have to deal with mathematics that much, it may be more the responsibility of the Minister of Economic Affairs. But I would like to follow the phrase 'Estonia's reputation is fine'. You just said that there is nothing wrong with Estonia's reputation. I have June 8th of The Economist here. I do not know whether foreign language publications can be read in the current government, maybe only in Estonian, but here is an article entitled 'Slime of the times', which speaks of the expression 'pink drool' by your good partner EKRE and the fact that there is a threat to media freedom in Estonia and there is still... If there is nothing wrong with Estonia's reputation and you have fixed this thing, as you said, how will such things still appear in The Economist? You indicated that they would be planted by someone in their national interests. Is there really a party in Estonia that can get The Economist to write badly about Estonia? How do you think that's possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U91	This passion, which has been in government formation, this very serious value struggle, which has been held decisively in Estonia's future, has naturally also found its output outside Estonia; there is no secret here. These debates, these discussions, are not a unique Estonian issue. We also see this in many other countries. Undoubtedly, speaking today of what was also my call or my message, we have just had a culture in one generation that we have not carried our dirty laundry into the world in an attempt to take internal political points in the foreign policy room. I remember, remember, shooting a picture of Laar Savisaar. Savisaar must have sent Raimond to remember, maybe you wrote it down to the foreign embassies about the shooting. We did not consider it a good tone; it also said that democracy would collapse and the coup would come, Laar would make a coup in Estonia, that he shot a picture, etc. That's the leverage of the shaft, the hyperbola. We can fight in 'First Studio' or 'Forum' or somewhere around here. There is one thing to debate before the elections, but these things really take on another meaning in the outer space of how much is known about Estonia in the more distant countries? If it is said that there is a coup d'état. If you say so, how can you judge in third world countries? That's where it's taken far more weight. But believe me, in other countries too, decision-makers are able to appreciate perfectly that there is an internal political context and an internal political struggle, and the other is the objective environment in which the state operates. I think it is very important that there are areas where we want to deepen international cooperation, to make a greater contribution. The first keyword, in my opinion, is that this government decided to continue fully with the RIP programme during the next state budget period, this decision has been adopted, with a state defence investment programme for the acquisition of munitions. This is a very important and very interesting programme. We're going to implement it in full. This means more money for national defence, and it is certainly a sacred area for national security. The second thing is our special relationship with the United States, the plans for this recess will come to the government in the near future, and there will also be a very promising view.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U92	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U93	Thank you. You twice used the expression that domestic problems have been carried out from home. Then who's gonna carry them out there? Is the hauler your coalition partner who makes ambiguous signs in the Riigikogu Hall when the diplomatic corps and foreign journalists are on the balcony of our own journalists? Are they the cuppers, or do you have any claims or facts that someone else is carrying our domestic problems out of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U94	It's a two-way road. I will be honest with you that it will not be easy to come from the opposition to the government unless there has been this experience before. It is important to be careful not to give cause for attack, exploitation. There's nothing to say. But sometimes it's even harder, from my own experience, to go from government to opposition. It's also a very painful experience. It also gives rise to temptations and temptations. Speaking of carrying around, print out these articles, I can make copies for you. It lists those who have cited, who have given reasons for judgment, or who have made assessments themselves, that is all public. These aren't things coming out of nowhere. It is not for what reasons motives are presented and assessed in a broader sense, that everyone's conscience is a question. But my problem is that we try to put things in a relevant and objective perspective. It is always the temptation of government to show things a little bit more proud than they are, objective, positive things. It's human. The opposition are always tempted to show things in a darker form; they are paid to shake the taxpayer's government. This is parliamentary democracy. But it's important not to lose a sense of reality. I have recently noticed that on a number of issues, things are not just going too far, but the World Championship is in a swinging shoe, so much going over in Estonia. It's like an electric motor's on a swing, it's going over the shaft tens of times, at supersonic speed soon. Let us not forget one thing: we have a hundred hate-free days in Estonia that the President of the Republic has announced. We must obey it. And what could be more beautiful than today in the consensus of this Riigikogu hall to wish a beautiful 70th anniversary to Ivo Linna. I think this is also a positive date.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U95	Thank you. Congratulations to Ivo City for me too! I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U96	Let's go to the next subject. Erkki Keldo has a question for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U97	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Last Monday, we expressed our mistrust for the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, in this hall. As you know, the leading members of the Estonian Conservative People's Party led by the Minister of the Interior, your government partners, have mentioned Russian people living in Estonia with a number of very unpleasant expressions. In addition, the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme has previously said this about Russian people in the Estonian security services: 'Firstly, our state agencies should exercise stricter control over citizens of foreign origin who have entered the responsible state office. [---] Instead of fighting the cancer created by the Kremlin, our current security personnel are hunting 100-year-old Sinimäed veterans and nonexistent Nazis. The trapping of the forest vase was most likely not a service of Estonian special services, but a service of our allies. ' During the discussion, we gave the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme several times the opportunity to withdraw from those words, but he did not. Does this mean that the Minister of the Interior and
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U98	Thank you, good questioner! I have repeatedly said in this Question Time today that regardless of the home language or nationality, everyone who lives here in Estonia is our people. Your question was from the surface of the nation. I don't know why, but I remembered when a member of the current management board of the Social Democratic Party and former chairman of the SDE was told that he was the son of a migrant from the pink party. This quote belongs to Jürgen Ligi. I don't know if you meant it or not right now, but what I'm trying to say is to blame someone on national soil, no matter whether he's a middle party, a reform party, an Erekian, a patriot or a member of the Social Democratic Party, I think this time is... There's no time, I hope, ever was, but there's no way to tolerate it, not in any way. I don't know if this is your first question in Question Time. We can talk to you about this today. This is very important in fact, this aspect of national security. It has to be held. National security must be maintained as a gold grain, it must be worked for, built on, developed and not broken. I am asking here, Mr. Erkki Keldo, also for you as a member of the Riigikogu and, if I am not mistaken, for the secretary-general of the largest party of the Riigikogu. We see this issue of security very often today when we walk on such a border. We see different information campaigns, we see hybrid threats, which some even call an information war. I ask you to help me to stop this trolling in Estonia. If I'm not mistaken, it was probably on the night of March 2, Saturday night, when I was in a national broadcasting service that needs to be maintained and developed. There was an interesting debate, and fortunately I had not put the phone in my pocket, but had left it in the wardrobe. 17 times I got a call. After that, it became clear that the youth body of one party and perhaps some of those who are not in the youth body were trolls. So in any case, national security must be maintained and built every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U99	Thank you. Specific question, Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U100	Thank you, President-in-Office. Unfortunately, Prime Minister, I did not get an answer from you which is the official position of your government. I would point out that, in this same mistrust of the Minister of the Interior, my colleague in the Riigikogu asked Mart Helme: 'In Pärnu Postimees on 15 September, you said: 'If we have risk groups and it is clear that Russian-speaking people are a risk group, it may offend them, but we cannot play here on delicate emotions, we need to control these people in greater depth. ' 'The Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, replied: 'This is what I have spoken to the leaders of the institutions concerned, and I will not comment on that. " That's why I'm going to continue. I understand the Minister of the Interior has already taken the first steps to control the Russian people. You didn't answer what your government's final position was. I would like to know which is the position of your government: either the position of the Minister for the Interior or your position on trolling and other minor misunderstandings. It really got mixed up, so I'm asking for a specific answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U101	Thank you. First of all, about one more thing, which was on your first question, that this hall was distrustful. This hall gave the Minister of the Interior his confidence. If there are more than 51 votes or 51 votes, he will show confidence. There were more than 51 votes. It's good for you to read the quotes there, and I'll try to be more or less balanced with you as soon as I can, but it's very complicated, of course. Mart Helme has said, I think, to answer a similar question as follows: 'I am of the opinion that all those who are dangerous to Estonia's security need thorough control. ' I understand that this has been a later answer to this question, essentially from the point of view of the nation, he does not speak of the nationality in the answer I quoted to you. If you come to the point you're saying, I think it's probably from the time it was the Forest City case. I will begin by saying that treason is certainly a very serious crime. But I cannot accept that if we live here in Estonia, different nationalities together, that then we will set different criteria, different requirements, including verification requirements, for different nationalities. I have said this in the previous composition, Mr Keldo, and I am also telling you at the moment that this topic is, in my opinion, a very bad ice-going exercise (I am not saying that on delicate ice). If I may say, and I think I may say to the members of the Riigikogu that there are people of different nationalities in this Chamber, people of different native languages, too. They're all equal. Everyone is equal, no one has less stringent standards or stricter standards when applying to the Riigikogu. This must also be the case for other positions and positions in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U102	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Question Time is over. Thank you to the members of the government for their response.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U103	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 9th working week session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U104	First, we accept the oath by Kalle Grünthal, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, following the end of the mandate of Riigikogu member Jaak Madison and his resignation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U105	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U106	Now comes the handover of the drafts and inquiries. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U107	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the Reform Party Group is presenting a draft aimed primarily at the liquidation of one of the debts to the non-Estonian community and the elimination of the conflict in law. The state of Estonia should not place its citizens at birth in a situation where, when they become adults, they must essentially choose between their mother and father's nationality or between Estonia and, for example, a new and perhaps only the citizenship of the country of temporary residence. We all know that thousands, probably tens of thousands of Estonians, have settled around the world for historical reasons, work-related reasons or family reasons. And when it comes to Estonian citizens after birth, they all have the right to Estonian citizenship by virtue of the constitution inalienable. Unfortunately, the law currently in force has so far been unchanged and has not been brought into line with the Constitution. The Citizenship Act still says that an Estonian citizen must choose when he or she becomes an adult and decide whether he or she will renounce the citizenship of that other country or Estonian citizenship, while the Constitution precludes the possibility of withdrawing Estonian citizenship at birth. We believe that this situation does not make sense and needs to be changed in such a way that a child who is born with two citizenships should no longer give up on one at the age of 18. In this way, we will continue to adhere to the meaning and content of the Constitution by keeping our communities and all those young families in which children are one of the oldest citizens of Estonia and another of other countries. We are handing over this draft today and we are ready to discuss all the details contained in the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U108	Looks like there's no more drafts. I have adopted one draft on behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, the management board decides how to deal with it in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I also have a message to give. Today, at the end of the plenary session, a meeting of the Civil Society Support Group will take place in this Chamber, and the convener will be Heiki Hepner. Next up, presence check. There are 90 members of the Riigikogu, missing 11. Dear Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, Before we go to today's agenda, there is one issue that needs to be resolved. On 30 April, the Estonian Reform Party Group submitted to the Riigikogu Board a proposal to restore the situation where the flag of the European Union and the flag of the Republic of Estonia are placed in the White Chamber of the Riigikogu. I'll explain the situation a little bit. The White Hall of the Riigikogu is our most representative ceremony and representation hall. The flags of the Republic of Estonia have been waving there all along. In connection with the Presidency of the European Union, the flags of the European Union were also brought there. Unfortunately, unlike tradition and practice, these flags of the European Union were forgotten there. According to the custom so far, if we have some kind of anniversary, a visit by a national delegation, the flags of a particular country or organisation have also been brought there. After that, they have been removed and the Estonian flags have been brought back. Now it happened that the flags of the European Union, which were brought there and replaced half of the Estonian flags, were no longer replaced against the Estonian flags. On the occasion of the 100-year anniversary of the Riigikogu, when these jubilee events began, we brought back the flags of the Republic of Estonia and so they waved there, until a week later, on April 30, the Reform Party submitted this request. The Bureau discussed this issue; we did not reach a consensus. In the meantime, the Reform Party proposed a compromise, but took it back and remained firm to the end that half of the Estonian flags should be removed from the White Hall of the Riigikogu in the year of the anniversary of the Estonian Parliament and replaced it with the flags of the European Union. Since no consensus was reached, we are before you today, and this is a matter for the Riigikogu to decide. To make it clear, before we go to the vote and regardless of the outcome of our vote today, the practice that, in the case of delegations from other countries or of any dates, we also make these other flags fly is maintained. It's not gonna change. The question is, what flags do we have in the White Hall? And now we can go to the vote. The phrase is not in this... How? Questions are allowed, but there are no speeches. Please, Mr. Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U109	Thank you. Mr. Pierce, please explain what procedure this was. You read your views, but the chair in which you sit should make you become a neutral and extra-party head of the Riigikogu. There must have been some other points of view that would be polite. What are the considerations other than those that you put forward? What are the considerations for a different choice? By the way, you did the exact same thing earlier. You acted like any Greek when you insulted Maris Lauri, while you didn't say anything to the Prime Minister's insulting behaviour. How can you do that? I do not want to use this word for you, but how can the President of the Riigikogu be so biased and not represent the Riigikogu, not the voters in general, but only his parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U110	Thank you. That's where you're wrong. I told you, the whole hall, what the Reform Party proposed. This proposal is written on my desk, this proposal is in the back shelves, just like the drafts and all the other materials. Everyone's had a chance to read it. And it is not good practice that the President of the Riigikogu reads out all the proposals and drafts, so we would stay here. And today we also have several thick drafts to discuss. All the members of the Riigikogu who have wished to have been able to read literally the position and proposal of the Reform Party. Next up is Kaja Kallas. Oh, I'm sorry! Andrei Korobenik.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U111	Thank you, President-in-Office. I'm familiar with the agenda, and if you're saying there was time to meet, I'm saying I didn't have that time. Can you tell us which section of the Rules of Procedure Act we are currently voting on?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U112	The question is that if the Management Board of the Riigikogu fails to reach a consensus on certain issues, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act says that this topic will be voted on in the large hall. That was the wish of the Reform Party. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U113	Thank you. Good meeting manager! One thing is that you read out the proposal made by the Reform Party, but the other is how you presented it in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. You said that we wanted to remove Estonian flags. It's not like that! The flags of the European Union were still removed. The question is whether there could be both the Estonian flag and the flag of the European Union in the White House. It can also be presented in a completely neutral form. But I also ask you which procedure rule you take on a very political position, which is not really appropriate for the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U114	Thank you. The placing of European Union flags in the White Hall means removing half the Estonian flags from it. It's as simple as that. If you want to restore the former situation, what happened temporarily, as the flags of the European Union were not removed, that is exactly what means that half of the Estonian flags must be removed from the White Hall. Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U115	Thank you. Good meeting manager! Before the Bureau discussed the withdrawal of the European Union flags and did not reach a consensus, someone ordered the flag of the European Union to be removed from the White Room. Who, and on what basis, gave such an order? Was there a basis for this, or was there an act of maladministration? As far as I know, the board didn't discuss it when those flags were thrown out or removed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U116	I personally gave the order as Chairman of the Riigikogu. And I didn't break any order or practice with it. We don't have a regulation on that. We have a flag law that states how and where to use the flags of buildings outside the European Union and other flags, the Estonian flag, but here in the Estonian Parliament we follow established practice, traditions and customs. And it has always been that we have Estonian flags flying here. The flags of the European Union were simply left there after the end of the Presidency, if they actually had to be replaced with Estonian flags again. And that's why I gave the order. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U117	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, a little clarification that flags have never waved much in the White Hall. I can't remember that there were windows open on both sides, so there was a draft wind. But now I don't quite get it. On the one hand, you are talking about customs and customs, on the other hand, we understood that this was your personal arrangement, or one person's order to remove the flags of the European Union. Now the great hall must vote on their return. Where is the line between practice and the individual decision-making power of one person?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U118	Thank you. I don't know if you're kidding. You better look at the members of your group. If it has been carried out in the same way all the time, it has become a tradition and a practice over the years, then this practice for some inexplicable reason, without any decision, will be violated. It is only natural to reinstate the former situation. What's to be surprised about? However, if a party that demands that this practice be reinstated and continued requires that this issue be brought into the large Chamber, it will not accept it, so that we can reach a consensus on the Bureau, we will vote on it here today. That is the wish of the Reform Party. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U119	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It is very regrettable that you lie and claim to the public and to this hall. These flags, the flags of the European Union, were not brought to the White Hall in connection with the Presidency. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu is well known and you should also know when these flags were brought there. They were brought there on 9 May 2016. When was the Presidency? In the second half of 2017. The so-called presence of these flags in the White Chamber has not been linked to our Presidency in the European Union, with which you have tried to justify your authoritarian step from the start. Secondly, our proposal also states that, since there is no regulation on this, a procedure could be developed so that symbols are not played politically in the way you have done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U120	Thank you. I know, yes, the exact date those flags were brought there. They were brought before the Presidency of the European Union, but they remained there in connection with the Presidency and were not replaced against the Estonian flags after that. I find it extremely strange to hear here the anniversary of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia for 100 years, and last year we also had the Republic of Estonia for 100 years, that someone is creating a scandal here and wants to push Estonian flags out of the Estonian parliament and replace them with other flags. As far as authoritarianism is concerned, there is no question of authoritarianism. I respect the duties and rights of my office. And as far as lying is concerned, you may have discussed in your group a proposal for a regulation. Such a proposal has not reached the board of the Riigikogu, I do not know where it came from. And besides, I don't think at all that we need to produce any more bureaucracy and regulate everything to the level of detail. Well, this proposal doesn't have any substance. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U121	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. We've been listening here to a rather emotional-charged version of your personal and probably co-ordinated version of how these flags got into the White Hall and how they were then moved. Peep Jahilo, who is the director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and who probably has a somewhat more precise understanding of what the flags of the European Union were brought to the White Hall and after what events, after which press they were removed. As far as I know, I'm sorry if I'm wrong! There is no such phenomenon as the organisation of the Chairman of the Riigikogu. If it's written somewhere, maybe you'll help me find that page number and section. If this only exists in your head, this order of the Chairman of the Riigikogu, then I really recommend that your coalition partners take this into account, too, that according to this logic, the flags of the European Union are not the last things you are going to reorganize here with your orders. Will the next picture of Eiki Nestor from the portraits of the presidents of the Riigikogu be removed, I don't know? So what's next? For you, it's very clearly playing with symbols, but you've embellished the whole order of events with lies. Marko Mihkelson brought it out nicely. A year before the Presidency, these flags were placed in the White Chamber in response to a clear appeal by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Jne, et cetera, et cetera. Do you really want to explain where you take the right to give such orders to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu? This is just a very specific question. And two, what's next? What order do you intend to give next?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U122	Thank you. Well, it's quite typical of the opposition politician's desire to paint on the wall some kind of ghosts and spread the fears that now come next. What's next? Come on, I'm sorry! The issue that we are discussing here today and which we are going to vote on is the flags in the White House. Other matters are not relevant at all. Keit Pentus- Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U123	Thank you. Good Mr. Põllamas! Your presence is absolutely not in line with what should be the presence of the head of one of the highest legislative bodies. You are the head of the entire Riigikogu. You are not the head of the EKRE; you are not the leader of the coalition; you are the chairman of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia. Please act accordingly! I need to correct the two lies you made in your introductory tirate. Firstly, there has been no talk about the development of the rulebook, and there has been no proposal for it. I represented the Reform Party Group in last week's Assembly of Elders, and there I not only proposed this, but also discussed the possibility of drafting a rule. Secondly, the claim that the Reform Party has wished or demanded the removal of national flags from the White House of the Riigikogu is not true. That, too, was what you tried to claim last week's collection of elders, and I corrected it. The Reform Party has requested the inclusion of European Union flags in the White Hall, not the removal of national flags. Once again, if you have been elected Chairman of the Riigikogu, please act accordingly!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U124	Thank you. Now there's been a lot of accusations about lying. Yeah, we discussed that. In the House of Elders, I also announced that I have not received any proposals that the Bureau has not received a proposal to establish a rule. Then, yes, you really said you had such a suggestion. We discussed this very briefly, and this body of elders did not find any support. On the contrary, it was precisely the case that we did not need to burden ourselves with excessive bureaucracy. We read this proposal from the Reform Party Group: the Reform Party Group proposes, under the direction of the Riigikogu, to restore the situation of a few days ago, now more time has gone by, so that the flag of the European Union and the flag of the Republic of Estonia stand together again in the White House. And what does that mean to restore the situation? This means precisely that we are taking out half the Estonian flags. You want to restore this temporary situation when the European Union's flags were in the Chamber and were simply left to fly there without being replaced again. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U125	Thank you. Good President! I have asked you a specific procedural question: on what basis are we voting on it now? § 56 In the Rules of Procedure Act of the Riigikogu, you are allowed to add to the agenda, for example in the case of a military situation or a proposal from the Chancellor of Justice or similar. If we have a war now, I will ask who, but if not, I will ask a second time: on what basis are we voting on this issue today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U126	Thank you. The Bureau discussed this proposal of the Reform Party and the consensus on this issue was unfortunately not reached. I therefore exercise the right of a member of the Board of the Riigikogu pursuant to § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and put this question to an off- agenda vote in the Riigikogu plenary. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U127	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Last week we had a meeting of the body of elders, and the issue of these flags was indeed discussed there. And we spread out with the knowledge that the Reform Party is going to consider the proposed alternative that, at the main entrance of the Riigikogu, where we have a lobby, the flags of the larger organisations to which we belong are also being placed in addition to the flag of Estonia: the European Union, NATO, the UN is also important in the current situation. Can you explain why this compromise proposal did not work?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U128	Unfortunately, I can't explain it. This compromise was proposed by the Reform Party itself if the rest of the Bureau did not accept their main proposal. We then took the time for the other groups to discuss the matter. At the next Bureau meeting, it was clear that all the remaining groups would agree with the compromise solution proposed by the Reform Party, but unfortunately the Reform Party withdrew this compromise proposal. After that, we discussed the matter in the body of elders. The Reform Party took some time to think, and at the last Bureau meeting we found out that they were sticking to their original position. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U129	Thank you. Each Estonian flag is a symbol and it should not really matter whether there are one, two, four or 24 Estonian flags in the hall. In any case, the Estonian flag is there and the question is rather whether there must be no European Union flag next to the Estonian flag in the hall. However, if the question for you is that bringing the flags of the European Union to the hall automatically means giving up two Estonian flags, would it be acceptable to you to leave four Estonian flags with four European Union flags? In this case, no flags need to be removed, and Estonia and the European Union can be side by side in this important hall as symbols? Would that be an acceptable proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U130	Thank you. Personally, I believe that if we have established firm customs and practices throughout this long period of independence, we have reason to continue them. We personally and the rest of the groups in this hall agreed with the compromise that the flag of Estonia, the flag of the European Union, the flag of NATO, the flag of the United Nations, and the flags of all the important organisations of which we are members, were placed in the lobby of the Riigikogu. Then everything would have been noted as far as possible, the importance of everyone would have been highlighted. Unfortunately, the Reform Party did not agree with this. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U131	Thank you. Good meeting manager! You're always talking about customs and customs here. Practices and customs are certainly a very serious argument, but one of the practices therefore changed on 9 May 2016. The Secretary of State also pointed out in his time that the state institutions could add the flag of the European Union to the flag of Estonia. And the Riigikogu so did that it placed the flag of the European Union next to the flag of Estonia. Your cynical opinion is that this means removing Estonian flags. But, as my colleague in Clothes said, that is not the case. You would have had the opportunity to put four flags and four flags in the White Hall, then there wouldn't have been a problem. However, I ask you a question about history to understand: why this decision was made on 9 May 2016? Have you contacted Maria Alajõe, who at the time was the director of the office, for example, in order to clarify this matter a little bit and to understand whether you had the sole right to decide that there are no more European Union flags in the White House? The main problem is that you simply took the decision, without discussing with the board and with the large hall, that, so, the European Union's flags are now leaving the White Hall. Did you communicate with Maria Alajõe?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U132	Breaching customs and customs does not mean that new practices have been introduced automatically. As far as the situation in the White House is concerned, neither the introduction nor the retention of the flags of the European Union are provided for by any decision. There is no decision of the board, there is no decision of the Riigikogu. So to claim that I have been alone in any kind of decision-stricken, it is not true. I just reinstated the situation. But Eerik-Niles Kross had one editorial question before I got it right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U133	Actually, I had a protest, that's why I waved my hand. Paragraph 74 of the Home and Working Rules Act provides that if a member of the Riigikogu has a protest, he will give a sign with his hand and not write down the speech, and he must have the floor immediately. So it's already a violation of the law that I didn't get the floor right away. But I want to keep talking about the same law. In answering one question here, you said that this question was put to the vote outside the agenda in accordance with § 16 (4). It says that a member of the Management Board of the Riigikogu may put the matter to a vote outside the agenda at the Riigikogu session. If the matter is voted off the agenda, the debate shall not be opened. Actually, what's going on here is a debate. As a member of my party, of course, I like this debate, but when we talk about practices and procedures, we should not constantly break the law on home and working procedures. In fact, with your introductory speech, you opened a substantive debate instead of putting the proposal to the vote. That's why the whole reaction. When we talk about customs, we must strictly respect this Chamber, even if we do not like these provisions, the same law on home and working arrangements. Otherwise, we will become something that is not Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U134	Thank you for your comment. Indeed, outside the agenda, the vote on the proposal came to this Chamber in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act and the wishes of the Reform Party. I did not open discussions or negotiations; right now, members of the Riigikogu simply have the opportunity to ask questions. And if there are any more, thank you! Urmas Espenberg next.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U135	At first, Mr President, you said that we would not discuss this issue, and then I withdrew my wish to speak. But it's still for discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U136	Now there are questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U137	Firstly, in my opinion, the President has not broken any law. He was based on the Estonian Constitution and the Flag Act. The European Union is not a federal state, like the Soviet Union, but a community of states. Member States have the right to use flags in their Parliament as they see fit. In Poland, for example, only Polish flags are outside. And maybe this vote here will add legitimacy to this decision if the body of elders did not agree. So I totally support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U138	Thank you. I also hope that the whole issue will be resolved by this vote. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U139	Thank you. Mr President! You indicated that the flags of the European Union remained there in connection with the Presidency of the European Union. Do you admit that this was actually a mistake? Secondly, you repeatedly referred to practices. As my colleague Marko Mihkelson said, the flags of the European Union have been in the White Hall alongside the flags of Estonia since 9 May 2016. That means almost three years. I think that three years is long enough for it to be seen as a new practice that you, while in the previous formation, had tolerated in opposition. You never raised the question of whether it was appropriate or not in the Chamber of Riigikogu. Do you think it is normal in a democratic country that the oral order of the President of the Riigikogu is sufficient to remove flags, but in order to bring the flags back, a vote of 101 members of the Riigikogu is needed? Is that normal in the rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U140	Yes, I do not think it is normal for such a question to be brought to this great hall. There is no immediate need for this. But since the Riigikogu Reform Party Group called for this, that is how we are here, not at the request of me or other parties. And indeed, we do not overcome or recreate our customs. It has been customary for the flags of some organisations or other countries to be brought to the white hall on festive occasions and then removed again. If you think that leaving them there is like continuing the practice, then we should also leave all the other flags in the flags of all the countries whose delegations have visited us. For example, next week the President of Croatia will come and visit us. There is no doubt that the Croatian flag will be put up in the White Hall on this occasion. Could it stay there? Jne, et cetera. Finally, we'd have a big flag sea there. No, it is precisely established practices that we must follow. And keep it that way. Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U141	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. I wouldn't devote much attention to flags, because when we adopted the 9th working week agenda on Monday, that point wasn't there. How does an out-of-the- agenda item suddenly appear on the agenda? The ambassadors should have been aware in advance that such a point would appear on the agenda today and that the decision would still be put to the vote. In what cases can such items appear on the agenda? Is it the exclusive right of the President of the Riigikogu, the right of the Executive Board, or whose right to place such items on the agenda? At the beginning of the week, we knew nothing about this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U142	Yes, it is possible to include additional items on the agenda on an ongoing basis and this specific vote has been placed on today's agenda pursuant to § 16 (4) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U143	Thank you. I will continue with Mr Korobenik's question. A couple of answers back, it just got a little messier. You said that, pursuant to § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, you exercised the right to bring this proposal to the vote here. In reply to a question from another colleague, however, you said that the Reform Party requested that this question be brought to the Chamber. Now, can you make one thing clear? My question is simply because you said at the meeting of the Assembly of Elders, where I was present, that this vote is very suitable for the EKRE, that we are putting the propaganda machines to full steam and that it is very fun. Probably the Reform Party can think the same way. For this reason, please state for the sake of accuracy who of the members of the management board requested voting on this question here today, in accordance with § 16 (4) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U144	This was requested by the Reform Party on the Board of the Riigikogu and, accordingly, this proposal came to the vote here today. Siim Kallas, Vice-President of the Riigikogu, declared that they do not agree with the compromise and that they would like to bring this issue to the vote in the large Chamber. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For explanation. Firstly, indeed, if there is no consensus in the Bureau, if one member of the Board does not agree with the proposed option, the Bureau is obliged to bring the matter to the vote in the large Chamber. We also made an interim option and convened a body of elders, but there was still no consensus on the board. The procedure prescribed by law is that then comes the question of the large hall. So it can therefore be said that the proposal is in the Chamber at my request, because I did not agree with the decision that has now been taken. Secondly, this compromise proposal, which the President mentioned as a proposal by the Reform Party to bring flags down to the lobby, was not, however, a proposal by the Reform Party. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu proposed this as one option for discussion. I did indeed propose to discuss this option as well, and this was also the case in our group. But we stuck to our position. So the proposal of the Reform Party is still what is expressed in our written text.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U146	Thank you. Yes, certainly, your position is that, but in the Bureau you brought this compromise option to the table personally. It wasn't the office's board. Andrei Korobenik.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U147	For the sake of clarity, I'm going to question what we're still voting on. Are we going to vote on the proposal made by the Reform Party Group in this exact wording? If that is the case, I must say that the text you read at the beginning looked like your opinion was being given. Where can the exact text of this proposal by the Reform Party be consulted?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U148	The concrete proposal of the Reform Party is in the shelves back there. And when we go to the vote, I will read out their proposal exactly, I will just stop saying 'a couple of days ago', because now it has been much more than a few days since then. But I will read out their proposal exactly when we vote. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U149	Thank you, Mr President. I have to admit, I'm a little embarrassed about this discussion. I actually understand all the parties involved. The task of the opposition is to screw the tension out, even to the point of obstruction, but we are generally used to trying to make high-quality decisions. If you look at it, I think it's pretty good if the Chairman of the Riigikogu resolves some of the issues in which he senses consensus. Nothing bad's gonna happen. You don't even have to bring questions to the presidency unless there's a conflict. But the President of the Riigikogu has a number of very good tools at his disposal and one of them is the symbolic committee of the State Chancellery. The symbolic committee solves both national symbolics and, by the way, the symbolics of the local government. And it turns out that most of the time, it's not just one symbol, it's like this whole band. Well, as we often do not create one term, but terminology as a whole. We are not creating one law, we are dealing with legislation. Could we send this proposal to them? Let this committee also work and give us reasons, then the Chairman of the Riigikogu does not have to take on this whole discussion. Let's hear what the specialists in this field think.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U150	Thank you. Yes, indeed, we have been discussing this for almost two and a half months now. It has been up at almost all the board meetings; it has been discussed by the Council of Elders, also the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and the board has always been there. At the meeting of the body of elders, the question was whether the office could solve the problem with its own powers and resources, but they refused. And for a perfectly understandable and understandable reason: they said that since the topic has been up for two and a half months, it is highly politicised and they do not want to interfere. The question has already reached the point where the members of the Riigikogu must make this decision. And that is a perfectly understandable position. Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U151	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! I don't want to talk about flags. I'm gonna ask you this. You must be aware that a coat of arms was removed from the flag wall once upon orders of someone. Whose order did this, will it be returned and, if so, when?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U152	Yes, indeed, once there was a wooden coat of arms, but during the renovation of the White Hall, during the restoration, it was taken away. It's still there. It's downstairs in the basement where we keep all those blue-black-white flags that's been waving in the Long Hermann Tower. He's nice to keep. But since the designers found that it was not, in artistic terms, such a high-quality and decent object that it would fit on the wall after these repairs, it was taken out of there. If you're interested in my personal judgment, he's really nice, but rather an object made by an amateur. In view of the fact that this building is still a representative building of the state and under the protection of heritage, etc., I personally do not support the repositioning of this crest. Maybe in some other way. But this issue is not very topical at the moment. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U153	Thank you. It sounds a little bit like "Soft and hairy" to see if anyone's gonna put something in the basement, and then there's gonna be decisions in the basement, right? Perhaps you will now take this ten-minute break, give up your tantrum and tell the Chancellery of the Riigikogu that you can put those flags back. It'd be awkward shit out here. You didn't answer my first question, did you ask Maria Alajõe how those flags got there on 9 May 2016. Maybe you'll check it out. And the committee referred to by my colleague, Black, did not condemn it in any way or did not deny that these flags were placed there on 9 May 2016. So they thought it was appropriate. At the time, this was not a political decision; at the time, the grand hall of the Riigikogu and the board were unlikely to discuss it very much. But you can certainly make that clear by asking your previous colleagues, by calling Eiki Nestor, for example, or, once again, by reminding Maria Alajõe. In your own interest, perhaps it would be that...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U154	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U155	...maybe you'll take this ten minutes and stop this nonsense, you'll quit your tantrum and give the director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu the task of putting up these flags the way they were.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U156	Thank you. With 'Soft and hairy', I'm sure your party will have more experience. After all, the members of your party were big stars and participants. EKRE has nothing to do with "Soft and hairy." The EKRE also has nothing to do with taking this crest down to the basement. The renovation of the hall was made a long time ago, so there is no reason to consider it to be our fault or not to be our fault. Yes, indeed, we asked. I didn't personally meet the Alajõgi and ask him about it. There was no reason, he was already out of this house. After all, there are other people in this house, and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu did indeed investigate how it happened that these flags remained there. There are no decisions on this; they were simply left there at the request of someone; I do not know what form of request. And so there is no reason why, of our own accord, we could not then exchange them back for Estonian flags. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U157	Thank you. I'm starting to figure it out quietly now. I have examined the statement made by the Reform Party Group, which is very different from what I heard at the beginning of this sitting. This statement states that they propose that the flag of the European Union and the flag of the Republic of Estonia stand together again in the White House. One and one is two. But there's more of those flags. My question is, where do these other flags move to? You wouldn't happen to take them to the basement, would you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U158	Yeah, at first I didn't exactly report the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party. I explained the situation in my own words. But when it comes to flags, all flags are kept very politely and properly. They are not moving to a dusty, dark cellar room, but we are holding all the flags of other countries and their organizations to which we belong very nicely and with great dignity. So there is no reason to fear that something will happen to these flags of the European Union among others. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U159	Thank you. I'm not asking about coats and flags. I ask again how this point came on the agenda. This agenda was not put on Monday. Wouldn't it have been wise, at least yesterday, to inform you that Wednesday is the first item on the agenda? If I do not know the actual agenda, I do not know when, for example, to come to the Chamber to discuss the third and fourth points. So you're gonna take my right and opportunity to go along on these points. That way, I don't know which points you're going to come to the big hall and what you're going to put on the agenda. It is elementary that changes are announced at least one day in advance. And Monday would have been the best. Why didn't this item get on the agenda this week on Monday? That's my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U160	Unfortunately, it wasn't known on Monday. The Reform Party had not communicated its final position. This knowledge arose at the Bureau meeting, which takes place after the Riigikogu meeting and after the committees meetings. Therefore, it was not possible to put it on the weekly schedule. We were supposed to put it in today, because this week, we're running out of sessions. Of course it would have been better, that I really admit, to bring this up next week or even later, but unfortunately summer is coming up. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U161	Mr President, thank you very much. I have an organizational question. I understand that the President of the Riigikogu will give the order and it will be executed. That makes sense! Do vice-chairmen have the same right to give orders? In other words, after you ordered the flag to be removed, could Vice-Chairman Siim Kallas have ordered the flag to be returned?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U162	That's a good question! I'm gonna say now, in my gut, probably not. Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U163	Thank you. Good meeting manager! I wonder how this board and head of the Riigikogu is getting so clumsy now. In Tallinn we waged a war with Kõlvart for almost a year and a half and the result is that we received the Estonian flag in the hall. It'll be up for repairs, but it'll be there. Here, however, the chairman and the board cannot understand the simple suggestion that the flag of Estonia and the European Union should stand side by side in the White House. This does not mean taking anything away, it means recognising that we belong to the European Union. I think it was explained to you. One of two: either you're stupid or you're playing stupid not to confirm it. So I'm asking you, which way is it now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U164	Thank you. You may think whatever you want, but I am very surprised at how the Reform Party here fights for half of the Estonian flags to be removed, but in the City Council, it fights to bring in the Estonian flags. I'm sure that just shows your two-facedness. On the contrary, the Head of the Riigikogu has not been weak at all. I have stood for the preservation of Estonian flags in our most important ceremonial space. Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U165	Thank you. After all, you yourself realized that this is not the way an item could come about, as it was. Even though it was decided very late. Today is not the last session of the Riigikogu; tomorrow is also the session. Why can't we discuss this tomorrow when everyone is aware that such a point will be on the agenda? Why isn't this an opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U166	Why does it have to be discussed, please ask the Reform Party? That's their thing. [[In the diner.]] It seems to me that Mr Korobeiinik already has the fifth question. [[Laughter.]] We're not meant to know how much to ask or not to ask. Here you go! Question five, Mr. Korobenik!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U167	I have a procedural question. I'm actually wondering why you're asking questions that are not procedural, but that's your decision as President of the sitting. My previous four questions were all procedural and the fifth one is exactly the same. For the sake of clarity, I ask because I did not get the answer last time: do we put the Reform Party's proposal to have two flags in the White Hall, one and the rest, and then move somewhere safe?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U168	Thank you. We will vote on the last paragraph of their proposal, where they will specifically propose restoring the situation where we had four flags in the White House. Their proposal is to restore this situation. This means that we need to get some of the Estonian flags out of there. [[In the diner.]] Mikhail Lotman, let's do it in line!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U169	Thank you. I am terribly pleased that all the problems facing the Estonian state have already been resolved and now we are dealing with the most important thing, the interior design of one of the halls. But since we have been dealing with this for an hour, I would like to find out in this logic: you said that there are four Estonian flags in a normal situation, but if there is a solemn event, two flags will be brought out and the respective countries will be taken there. I do not understand why, at festive events, we must take Estonian flags out of the door. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U170	This is out of respect for the delegations of other countries that are visiting us. It's been a practice all along. When the guests leave our house, we will bring the Estonian flags back. That's a good habit. Next up, Evgeny Ossinovsky.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U171	Thank you. I will continue with Mr Korobenik's procedural question. This concerns the last paragraph of Keit Pentus-Rosimethus's letter. Here, in this assert section, it is claimed that there could be a flag of the European Union and a flag of the Republic of Estonia in the White Hall. In the first part of this sentence, this is a blaming phrase, it is said that the previous situation should be restored. And you have then, as I understood from your response to Mr Korobenik, interpreted it in such a way that two Estonian flags should be removed and replaced by two European Union flags. I have understood here the emotions of the proposers that this is not necessarily what they meant. In accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, can the maker of this proposal better modify what we are going to vote on in this debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U172	Yes, indeed, when we read their proposal, it is clear that it is essentially impossible to resolve it. In one way they say they want to restore a situation where there were two Estonian flags and two European Union flags, but they continue to be the flag of the European Union and the flag of the Republic of Estonia. This would be even worse, because it would mean removing even three Estonian flags from there. So quite confusing and incomprehensible is the proposal of the Reform Party. All the more so because it actually leaves quite open what will happen in the future when delegations from other countries come here. Which flag will we then remove: will we remove the flag of the Republic of Estonia or will we remove the flag of the European Union and replace it with the flags of our guests? But that is the proposal of the Reform Party, and that is how we will put it to the vote. Since we have been discussing for a long time and practically everyone who asks questions here has already been able to ask either one question or more, we are going to the vote. [[A loud protest and a buzz in the hall.]] There is no procedure for me to give more questions. Since you have all wanted to ask questions, as President-in-Office, I have kindly welcomed you, and I have enabled you to do so, but we must go to the debate on the rest of our agenda at one good time. [[Big buzz in the hall.]] Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please, is it...? I can't hear you! Any procedural suggestions, any questions? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U173	Thank you. Since there have been repeated references to the proposal of the Reform Party Group misinterpreting it, I consider it my duty once again to explain the same thing that I have already explained in the Riigikogu Assembly of Elders. The proposal of the Reform Party Group is to make a fundamental decision that the Estonian flags and the European Union's flags are equally represented in the White Hall, the Representative Chamber. How many of these flags will be there? We don't have to vote on that today. It would be a fundamental decision to have the flags of the European Union as well as the flags of Estonia represented in the White Hall. I also have a proposal for a debate that has already gone beyond any line, to draw a line and to vote on the decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U174	Thank you. I agree that, as the honourable Keit Pentus-Rosimannus said, this debate or answering questions, this whole thing here has gone too far. It's time to put an end to this. I agree with that. And that is why we are now going to the vote, and precisely in this version, as the Reform Party has proposed. Mr Ossinovski has a word. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U175	Of course it is! Because you're changing your point of view in half. It's not bad in itself, but there's a way to figure out where your views change and why. I haven't figured out what your point was before you agreed to Keit Pentus-Rosimine. What are we gonna vote on? I don't know what you're making us vote for. Perhaps you really take into account Mr Pevkur's proposal, take a break, drink a sip of cold water, perhaps, and the helpers may be able to formulate what we put to the vote. We'd count it and then we'd vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U176	Thank you. I hope that when we come to the vote and I will read out exactly this proposal from the Reform Party, even you will understand what it says, and you can vote. So now we go to the vote, I'll give you the hall call. Honourable Riigikogu! Who is in favour of the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to restore the situation where the flag of the European Union and the flag of the Republic of Estonia are placed in the White Hall? Please take a stand and vote. [[Noise in the hall.]] Who wanted a break? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The proposal was supported by 32 delegates and opposed by 34. [[Let's hear it.]] 27 delegates did not take part in the vote. The proposal of the Reform Party Group was not supported. (Jutt hall. Kalvi Tõvi is going to the chairman's office to explain that he wanted to take a break. It is protested that the vote is void.) Unfortunately, I didn't hear it when they shouted they wanted a break. The vote has already taken place, we have the result of the vote. (Loud protest in the hall.) I announced that the round of questions was over and that the vote had been taken. Thank you. The decision has been taken and the Reform Party... (The Hall is a huge mess. Protestants.) Yes, we are discussing this issue, but we will now proceed with the remaining items on the agenda. Thank you. (Somebody's yelling something out.) Thank you. Let's go to the next point. (From: 'Can't go to the next point! Yes, we can! It was a hammer strike. Look at the camera in the picture. After the vote, I hit it with a hammer. The decision has been taken. (Inconsistency in the hall.) The motion has been rejected. Thank you! Let's move on to the next points. (It says: "Can't go! Read the law, can't go on! ') Yes, it can. (On the floor: 'Can't! ') Based on what? (It says: "Paragraph 74, read this, make it clear to yourself! " Big buzzing.) Mr. Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U177	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[In the diner.]] According to § 74 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Home Act, if the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the conduct of the Riigikogu sitting, these protests will be resolved immediately. So your proposal that we go ahead and then think about it is unfortunately not in accordance with the Riigikogu's law on home and working procedures. Since there is a very fundamental question as to whether you have complied with the law that led this session, since you ignored the wish of one of the political groups laid down in the law to take a break before the vote, you ran over it numbly, one political group, or some of the members of the Riigikogu, could not exercise their constitutional right, their mandate. This is a very fundamental question, and I am proposing that you take the chairman's break now and try to resolve this matter rationally rather than roll forward in violation of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U178	Thank you. The announcement that a recess would be desired did not reach the President until after the vote. [[Pick a buzz in the hall.]] Unfortunately, it is too late to resolve this way. According to the section of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the President of the sitting may grant or reject the protest. The President's decision shall not be contested. Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Well, let's do one more procedure. Please! [[Noise in the hall.]] Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U179	Thank you. After you have read in advance what we are going to vote on, after we have clarified what we are voting on, we wanted to discuss the matter in our group before the vote. I have registered a request to speak on this board to take a ten-minute break on behalf of the group. When I saw that you were moving on, I naturally raised my voice and shouted many times that we wanted a break. But before that, there was a wish to speak on the board at the right time to take a break. Why didn't you accept it? You can see the moment when the wish to speak was registered. We don't usually have to scream over the hall to take a break. This has perhaps been the custom of another group, but not ours.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U180	Unfortunately, there was a long list of those who had already repeatedly asked questions. And since I said that we would finish the round of questions, your wish really came to me when the vote was already on. [[Comments from the floor.]] Thank you. Let's hope there won't be such a mess the next time. [[Noise in the hall.]] Thank you. A procedure? Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U181	Thank you. Good chairman of the sitting! The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu states that if the members of the Riigikogu have a wish for words and the President of the sitting considers that these wishes for words are no longer justified, that it is enough to have a discussion on this point, it is indeed possible to put the matter to a vote, which you did. But I clearly understood the mood in the hall that the people who were in that line didn't want to vote yet. For example, Andrei Korobenik showed very clearly that he does not want you to stop discussing matters. In this case, § 72 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure says: 'If a member of the Riigikogu objects to the proposal of the President of the sitting, the closing of speeches is decided by voting. ' You did not vote on whether we would stop speaking. My statement: before you went to the final vote, you violated the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure. Would you now cancel this vote and put it to the vote if you want to close the speeches, do we want to end the speeches? And then, according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, we can come to the vote on our proposal. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U182	Thank you. In my interpretation, it was up to the President to decide how many questions we were asking. So thank you! We are done with this question and we will continue to have procedural questions. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U183	Thank you. The Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, which you obviously have not brought yourself very well up to date, is expressly stated in § 84 of the Riigikogu, that if the voting procedure is violated in the course of the vote, the President of the sitting shall interrupt the vote. This is not what you did, even though by then the violation of those who are in possession of the Home and Rules of Procedure law was, in principle, clear. I have a question for you as Chairman of the Riigikogu. Since your actions under the management of the sitting were contrary to the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, I, as a member of the Riigikogu, could not exercise my mandate, although I wanted to do so. I think it is obvious that, in the event that the President of the sitting did not pay attention to the request of a group to take a break, the vote will be suspended and a new one organised. This has always been the case, it is elementary, it is the only way to behave in accordance with the law of the Riigikogu on home and working procedures. You did something else, and therefore I could not exercise my free mandate. Do you think this is in any way in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U184	Thank you. The vote started with a hammer strike and ended with a hammer strike and was carried out in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U185	Thank you. I ask, as a matter of certainty, what happens if it turns out that this vote had not, however, been carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Do we have to have an emergency session in the summer, or can it be resolved differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U186	Well, we'll discuss it on the board if that happens. I cannot tell you what the wishes of the members of the Riigikogu are: either to come together exceptionally for this or to continue this debate in the autumn. However, I believe that we have nevertheless carried out this vote and that the result is in force. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U187	Dear Chairman, In fact, the word is generally given in the order of registration. You're letting certain people in front of you. But that's it. It would have been quite right to announce a break to allow what we are going to vote on to be clearly recorded by the Reform Party. We would have known exactly what we were voting on. Right now we have this paper proposal and Keit Pentus' explanation. But that doesn't mean we can vote on the explanation in the hall. Please make this move, take a break to make it clear one sentence or clear two sentences to vote on! Then we all know what we are voting on. There's never been a thing like this in the hall before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U188	Thank you. We will vote exactly, literally, on this proposal from the Reform Party that they presented to the Bureau. That's right. That is the wish of the Reform Party. [[???Hääled saalist: 'Ei ole!'???]] You have submitted it in writing, so you have asked for it. Why do we even have this vote here? Is that now... I'm sorry, are you going to continue with the procedural questions? Everyone has procedural questions? Then please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U189	My statement was registered before the vote. I just wanted to point out that what was put to the vote was completely incomprehensible. In the wording of the proposal, as it says here, it was not possible to vote, because the wish of the author of the proposal was contradictory.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U190	Yeah. Thank you. I agree. [[Laughter and applause.]] But that was the wish of the Reform Party. There you go, you have the document! How can you argue? You have written it yourself, and that is what your request we have put to the vote at your request. If there are questions about this bill here, then the round of questions is over. I'm only taking into account a few more procedural questions right now. Please, Kalvi Speak! Tough. [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U191	Thank you. As I have already said, the Social Democratic Party Group wanted to take ten minutes before the vote. It is the custom of the hall that, in order to take a break, the speech is recorded on the board and before the vote, the chairman of the Riigikogu looks at the board and, if there are requests to speak, gives the floor and the person can ask for a break. I registered the speech. At the right time and by yourself, the first. I wanted to take a break for our group, which is our right. We wanted to discuss with the group what we would do with this point. You didn't give me the floor. Our group could not discuss the matter. As a result, Mr Ossinovski, a member of our group, could not exercise his constitutional right, as he said. Your advisor heard me shout at some point when the vote was held. You could have suspended the vote immediately. I ask: why didn't you give me the floor to take a break when I had pressed the key to speak on the remote at the right time? Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U192	As I explained, your wish only came to me after the vote. [[Comments in the hall.]] Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U193	Thank you. I would point out that you are referring here to a letter from the Reform Party Group. Yes, we wrote it on 30 April and it was not worded so that it is the proposal of the Chamber that will be put to the vote. It would be logical for the President to formulate a proposal to be put to the vote. You have not done so, and the Group of the Reform Party can now formulate it correctly. We therefore support the proposal to open a break. We will formulate our proposal to the Bureau, you can read it down, and we can make a new vote so that everything is correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U194	Thank you. You had two and a half months to formulate it differently. [[From the chute hall.]] Since you did not do so, of course we have voted on the text that you yourself proposed. It's perfectly clear! You would have had time to do so at yesterday's Bureau meeting or after you already knew that it would come to the vote today. You didn't. You had the same text come before the Riigikogu. Thank you for that. [[Comments in the hall.]] Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U195	Thank you. For me, too, it is incomprehensible how the Reform Party had two and a half months to formulate the proposal when I read two hours ago in the press release that we are going to have such a point on the agenda today and to vote on it. This situation was unexpected for all of us, so the opportunity should be given to clear the proposal so that all members of the Riigikogu can understand what they are voting for or against.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U196	Thank you. Indeed, there was two and a half months. Yesterday, the Reform Party announced that they were calling for a proposal to be brought to the Chamber, and that is precisely the text that we had. The Board of the Riigikogu will not rephrase proposals and requests from the Reform Party or any other party. We don't have that right. Otherwise, we would be blamed for perhaps wanting to rephrase the text somehow. This is exactly the wording that the Reform Party has presented to us. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U197	Thank you, manager. There have been several questions from this Chamber about how this item came into today's agenda. And when you started the debate on the proposal, you never referred to how much we have the right to ask a number of questions everyone can ask. This led to a very large queue, including five or six questions from a good colleague. With such leadership, you have come so far as to overlook the obvious desire to speak and to appeal to the President for a break. I assure you that when I was sitting over here, I heard that the Socialist Group wanted to take a break. It was also signalled with a loud voice. Please say, Mr President, what is preventing you from withdrawing this vote now, from allowing the group to take a break and to carry out the vote correctly? As far as wording is concerned, if the Riigikogu's board of directors has doubts that the wording is not clear, it can turn again to the party concerned and ask for the wording to be specified, because the board has a plan to submit the application to the hall on day x. None of this has happened. Would you be willing to do what the Socialist Group wants?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U198	The Reform Party knew exactly when the proposal would come to the hall. They had an excellent opportunity to rephrase it if they so wished. Thank you. [[A comment from the floor.]] Your own party member is on the board, he had all the information, so your party has it. And if you did not wish for a different wording, but left the proposal that you tabled earlier to the Bureau, please do not look at the others. Thank you. You've all been able to ask procedural questions with your hands up. That concludes this issue. [[A lot of noise in the hall, trampling your feet.]] We will proceed to the next items on the agenda. (A break is required from the hall, the trampling of the feet continues.) And since some people have left the hall, I'll take the manager's break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U199	I'll take another board break. Ten more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U200	Ladies and gentlemen, During the break, the Board of the Riigikogu met and we decided to give the Reform Party the opportunity to clarify the text of the motion to be voted on. And this will be: 'I will put to the vote the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party to organise the display of European Union flags in the White Hall of the Riigikogu alongside the flags of the Republic of Estonia. ' We will not open a round of negotiations and questions this time, so we can go to the vote. I'll give you a hall call. Can we go to the vote? Is everyone here? Honourable Riigikogu! Who is in favour of the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party to organise the display of European Union flags alongside the flags of the Republic of Estonia in the White Hall of the Riigikogu? Please vote! Thank you. There are 38 delegates in favour, 39 against, no abstentions, 16 against, 16 against. The Reform Party's proposal was not supported. We will proceed with the next items.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U201	Honourable Riigikogu! We will proceed with today's agenda, which has been adopted earlier. First item: Third reading of the draft law amending the Waste Act, the Waste Act amending the Waste Act and the Waste Act and other laws related thereto initiated by the Government of the Republic. Is there a desire to open negotiations between the political groups? There is no wish for negotiations, we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Waste Act, the Waste Act amending the Waste Act and the Waste Act and related other laws. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U202	Let's go! Today's second item: First reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia Establishment of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly delegation' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mr Enn Peemaa, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U203	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented this draft decision of the Riigikogu on 3 June this year. No proposals were tabled by 7 June. At the meeting on 3 June, it was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft 34 be placed on the agenda for the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 12 June for the first reading. The Committee on Foreign Affairs was appointed rapporteur for the draft at first reading by the chairman of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U204	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the decision, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U205	Today's third item: Second reading of Bill 26 on the Approval of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Agreement on the Accession of the Northern Macedonian Republic initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Eesmaa, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U206	Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was completed on 4 June. No proposals were submitted by the deadline of 7 June of the amendments. In these few days, two countries, Norway and Germany, have already succeeded in ratifying this protocol. If we succeed in completing this work today, Estonia will become the 17th country that has approved this protocol. The consensual proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu was to place the draft for the second reading of 26 on the agenda of the plenary session on 12 June and to hold a final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U207	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. There were no amendments to the draft; we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act approving the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Northern Macedonian Republic initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U208	Today's fourth item: First reading of the draft Law on the Securities Market Act and on the amendment of other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, to waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U209	Dear Deputy Speaker! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I have to apologize right away, because you had a very passionate debate here, I have a little time. I have to leave pretty soon to fly to the ECOFIN meeting in Brussels. But I believe that at least the part of the hall that is confidently euro-minded doesn't mind me. The draft law amending the Law on Securities and Markets and other laws serves a number of important purposes. Firstly, it aims to promote communication between stock exchange companies and their shareholders and, in particular, to increase the possibility for small shareholders to participate in general meetings of stock exchange companies. The second objective is to reduce the existing requirements for companies on the prospectus of securities. There are a number of intermediaries between the stock exchange company and shareholders, such as banks, which should contribute to the exchange of information. The draft requires these intermediaries to promote communication between stock exchange companies and shareholders. The aim is also to increase the ability of shareholders to shape the remuneration policy of the directors of the stock exchange. The directors shall refer to the members of the supervisory board and the management board. The general meeting shall vote on the principles of remuneration at least every four years, and any significant changes to the principles of remuneration shall also be submitted to the general meeting for voting. In addition, stock exchange companies will have to make their directors' fees public on their websites. Changes relating to stock exchange companies are subject to European Union law. The options provided for in this directive have tried to take as much into account the views of our stock exchange companies as possible. For example, it was decided to limit the publication of the fee to the members of the supervisory board and the management board; the remuneration of the executive directors would not be disclosed. The purpose of the draft is also to update the requirements for drawing up the prospectus of securities in Estonian law, based on the size of the company. The prospectus shall contain the information to be provided to investors on the company and the securities to be issued, including the money. Certain companies, especially the smaller ones, can now submit a prospectus on a smaller scale. This will make it easier and more advantageous for smaller companies to raise money through shares or bonds. These changes will provide companies with better opportunities to consider other forms of financing rather than bank loans, while also helping to revitalise the local capital market. In addition, the threshold below which a prospectus of securities may be drawn up in a simplified form in accordance with the requirements laid down in the Finance Minister's Regulation will be increased as a major amendment to the Securities Market Act. The obligation to draw up a prospectus relates to the amount of money involved. At present, a prospectus need not be drawn up if the amount of money involved is less than EUR 2.5 million, and this threshold is currently unchanged. However, it will be possible to make a simplified prospectus in the future if the offer is less than EUR 8 million. In any case, if the offer exceeds EUR 8 million, a prospectus must be drawn up, and then in the way already provided for by EU rules. The rest of the legislative changes are rather technical in nature. The amendments under the draft should mostly enter into force in the general scheme. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U210	Thank you, honourable entrepreneur, there are no questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U211	I'm a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U212	Sorry, waitress! No questions for you. Mr Andres Suti, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, will be the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U213	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meeting on 3 June, adopted all the decisions by consensus and proposes that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, which is then 27 June this year. The Members of the Commission had a number of questions, so I will give you a brief brief overview of what we have been talking about. The first question concerned language requirements: what language must prospectuses be made in. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that it is up to the issuer to decide whether the prospectus is made in English or in Estonian. There was a question about the number of persons whose fees are disclosed. These are then members of the issuer's board and board of directors. In addition, the question was to what extent the amendment of the law affects the workload of the Financial Supervision Authority. The answer is that it affects the number of new issuers to come, but the Financial Supervision Authority has taken this into account. A separate theme was the concept of 'unknown reputation', which is included in the draft law. In the Commission, we discussed this and the agreement remained that the Ministry of Finance would clarify the content of this concept for a second reading. We also asked whether the principle of "one time, last time' requests for information provided for in the draft was guaranteed, and the answer was 'yes'. We were also curious about the requirements to be applied in neighbouring countries. According to the Ministry of Finance, they are more or less the same as the issues in Latvia and Lithuania. The question was also how the small shareholders feel about the bill. The Ministry of Finance had consulted various market participants and their umbrella organisation FinanceEstonia. Rather, the draft protects the interests of small shareholders, and the issuers of stock exchanges had also done some explaining. Finally, it was more procedural clarification that, since the law will certainly not be adopted in July, the provisions for its entry into force must also be amended in the draft. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U214	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U215	Thank you. I'd really like to ask Martin Helme, but since he's got a plane waiting, he squirmed his story quickly and escaped from the remote. I'll ask you then. The language requirement for a prospectus in itself sounds good to the issuer to decide. But I remember protesting back then that when the Port of Tallinn went to the stock market, he published a full-length prospectus in English, a semi-long Russian and a very, very short, concise and not much information in Estonian. I think it's a lie. For example, if a share is advertised as a future public share, there might actually be a requirement that English and Estonian prospectuses be of the same size and contain the same information. It has been difficult even for me to understand this content in English. I'm afraid there are some people in today's government who wouldn't understand if we went to sell stock like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U216	Yes, good Valdo, I agree with you in this respect that the Prospectus of the Port of Tallinn was really designed in such a way that the Estonian section was too general, did not provide sufficient information to investors. The question is how precisely this should be regulated by law. In my opinion, however, this is a matter for the board of directors and the board of directors of a particular company. I personally agree, and I also felt in the committee that if the issuer places the mission first and foremost on the Estonian market, it is unreasonable that the prospectus is not only English, but also in Estonian. However, if the markets are mostly outside Estonia, it may not be appropriate for the text to be fully translated.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U217	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You get a question from me, too, because I didn't dare ask Martin. Let's save the EKRE, they've been hit enough today. This draft states that the opportunities for small shareholders to participate in general meetings will be increased. What's the problem? I've had some contact with this area, too, and I don't know what the problem is. What question does this bill want to resolve?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U219	Thank you, good questioner! We did not address this particular point of view in the Commission's meeting. I guess it's more of a matter of information exchange. I'm not going to give you a more specific answer right now, but I can come back to it if the issue is still on the agenda later.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U220	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U221	Thank you. I'll continue with my last question. As I am known as a compromise person, I propose a compromise to you and the chairman of the committee for the next Commission sitting. If it is still a matter of placing companies belonging to the Estonian state on the stock market, it could be mandatory to publish a prospectus in the same volume in Estonian as in English or any other language. In the case of the Port of Tallinn, as I said, it was particularly perverse that even the Russian prospectus was longer and contained more information than in the Estonian language. But if there really is a private investor or a private owner, let him decide for himself, as you suggested. After all, you were discussing whether it was the issuer's own decision, but in the case of the State, it should not be the issuer's free choice. We still have the language law from somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U222	Well, amendments to the draft can be tabled until 27 June, and if such a proposal is received, the Commission will certainly address it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U223	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U224	Thank you. I just remind you, Andres, that in fact we in the Commission had the first topic of this debate, that if there is an emissions mission in Estonia, then surely the prospectus must be in Estonian. If it is to be published in another language, it may also be in another language. That is what was discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U225	Okay. And the question? Okay, that was an explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U226	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 28 is complete. I will set the deadline of 27 June at 4 p.m. for the submission of amendments. The debate on today's fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U227	Let's keep going. The fifth item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Tax Administration Act, the Courts Act and the Liquid Fuel Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Helme, Minister of Finance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U228	Dear Deputy Speaker! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you very much, Valdo. I think he went out and didn't ask me a question. But that didn't ease my schedule. I have the honour to report to you a draft law amending the Tax Administration Act, the Courts Act and the Liquid Fuel Act. Its aim is to complement the regulation of double taxation disputes between the countries of the European Union and also to amend the Law of the Courts. Currently, the tax authority settles cross-border double taxation disputes on the basis of tax treaties. When transposing the Directive, the tax authority should resolve these complaints in cooperation with the tax authorities of another Member State in the mutual agreement procedure and will now be subject to a two-year mandatory time limit. Currently, tax authorities are obliged to make reasonable efforts to reach an agreement, but no deadline is set. If the complaint is not resolved within the prescribed period, the taxpayer may request a review of the complaint by the Advisory Council. Since a judge can also be appointed as an independent person of recognition, the Courts Act is also amended. The Advisory Commission shall, where appropriate, seek evidence, hear the complainant and express its opinion on the complaint. This opinion shall be binding on the tax authorities if the tax authorities fail to reach an agreement on the final decision themselves. The transposition of the Directive will create a more coherent procedural framework within the European Union for the resolution of double taxation complaints, while the taxpayer's procedural rights will be better guaranteed. This means that they will not remain permanently in the process, as tax authorities are obliged to keep this deadline in mind. In addition, according to the draft law, the law on courts will be supplemented in such a way that, in future, the public prosecutor's personal identification number will be published in official notices. The current law does not provide for this, but in practice the official announcements already reveal the identity code of the judge of the people. So we bring the law into line with real life. The Tax and Customs Board will have the right to provide data containing tax secrets to the promoters of national support programmes. These are KredEx, EAS, Ministry of Culture, Estonian Film Institute, etc. This information, including tax confidentiality, is used to control the targeted use of the aid to the beneficiaries of the support programmes. In addition, the tax authorities will have the right to provide tax data to the Environmental Agency to assess compliance with the obligations laid down in the Liquid Fuel Act, as well as to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Agency to assess compliance with the obligations laid down in the Air Pollution Protection Act. The Liquid Fuel Act is amended as a result of the amendment of the Tax Administration Act. The amendments to the Liquid Fuel Act are of a technical nature and allow for the monitoring of fuel movements. In the Liquid Fuel Act, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Environmental Board, the Environmental Agency and the Ministry of the Environment are included among the recipients of data from the fuel handling database. In summary, when transposing the directive, we will provide the taxpayer with greater legal certainty in the resolution of double taxation disputes by the tax administration law. Amendments to the Courts Act and to the Liquid Fuel Act are accompanying changes and result from changes to the Tax Administration Act. Therefore, it is not right to regard the package as a cluster bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U229	Thank you. You have questions too. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U230	Thank you. You already answered a possible question. Sometimes I thought there was a cluster law, but it's not when you say it like that. The man's word, the minister's word. But two questions after all. It does not appear from the draft that its approval requires a majority in composition, but I read it and thought that some of the points could be like this. Can you tell me if it's a draft that requires a majority in the composition or not? The second point is that the draft law should enter into force as of 30 June 2019. Even if you miss your plane today, I don't see what trick you can do three readings and make it come into effect on June 30th.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U231	Thank you. The first question must be answered by the Riigikogu Board; this is the question of the procedure of the Riigikogu. The answer to the second question is that, of course, this draft has been initiated earlier and that date was written in the hope that the procedure would take place quite quickly. It is quite obvious that we will only come to the adoption of the law during the autumn session and, of course, during the second reading, this date will change.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U232	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U233	Thank you. Good minister! Since you are also defending the amendment of the law of the courts here, it is true that a majority of 51 votes in favour is needed in the draft. But that's exactly what I'm asking you for, with the law of the courts in mind. I read in the explanatory memorandum that the union of judges has wanted more rights for judges than originally foreseen in the draft. Can you explain what the judges wanted? We know you as a critical reviewer of the justice system. Now you're gonna give the judges a bill of intent to act outside the court office or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U234	Thank you. I'm sure it's not a bill of lading. Why are we giving judges the right to participate in the work of this Advisory Council? This is partly due to the Directive. There is a framework for what kind of people should be involved in this work. And if we ask, in the light of practice, who are the people in Estonia who would be competent to work on such a commission, the answer is that the number of people we should find these specialists from is actually very limited. The Courts Act states very strictly what judges can do outside the courts. In essence, there are only two things, and we are now extending this list in my opinion in a very limited way. It is simply in this particular committee that judges may take part outside judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U235	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U236	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We have a general principle in national law that if the tax liability or the filing of a declaration is three years, the claim will expire. But now the tax authorities of different countries are going to argue, and then there will be these consultative councils. I think the deadline's in place, but what about the expiry date? Will it remain valid for three years, or will things change if we transpose this directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U237	Thank you. I can't confirm that I know that exactly, but I think that under certain conditions, this time is actually longer than three years. But it is not a dispute between a person and a state that we are talking about, but, above all, a dispute between two countries. To a person or an entrepreneur or, let's say, to a taxpayer, a claim has been made that he does not agree with, and then two countries argue among themselves which country he has to pay the tax in and where he receives the exemption. There are very few of these cases in Estonia; according to the tax administration, there are tens of them each year. There are, of course, hundreds and thousands of European countries with larger and closely integrated economies, and if the taxpayer proves to be a victim of a dispute between the two countries, this problem must be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U238	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U239	Mr. Minister! I understand from your report that the proposed legislative changes will increase the legal uncertainty of taxpayers, and that is certainly very positive. You have also read a number of institutions that have the opportunity to obtain sensitive data from the tax administration and elsewhere, or, let's say, sensitive information about taxpayers. Is that not contrary to this legal certainty? Does this not create uncertainty among taxpayers if any institution that thinks it has a problem can immediately turn to the tax administration and ask how it is about paying one tax or another? I'm just saying so much to comment that this process, access to sensitive tax and banking information, has been going the wrong way for 20 years. This access has been extended all along, and I am concerned about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U240	Thank you. I think that both of us are concerned. As far as I understand, we are talking about specific grants to one, another or third party and the use of these specific grants can be controlled. We can come back to this problem in the course of further proceedings. I think this is a completely legitimate question of how broad this opportunity should be given.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U241	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U242	Thank you. Good minister! However, I ask for further clarification as to what the drafters and you thought when you decided to grant the judges this additional right. It can also be seen from the explanatory memorandum that, as a result of the above, the second sentence of § 49 (1) of the Courts Act is worded a little more widely than initially envisaged in the draft law. Why don't you tell me, though, what are the additional activities that the judge will be entitled to do in the future compared to the current law of the courts? My second point concerns the data of a public judge published in Official Announcements. A personal identification code is generally considered to be a sensitive personal data element. Did you consider the option of excluding a personal identification number from sensitive personal data and using, for example, the date of birth? It has been pointed out here that a personal identification number is needed to identify the judges of the people, but maybe a date of birth could be used instead of a personal identification number.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U243	To be honest, I have to admit that I do not know what considerations have been involved. I know that these specific paragraphs have been made in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. These are their proposals, which were made during the coordination process. I can't answer exactly right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U244	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U245	Good manager! Good waitress! When I look at the amendment to the Liquid Fuel Act, I see that this draft has not been discussed at all with the Estonian Oil Association. And when you look at who is given access to this data, you wonder if they really need this right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U246	I agree with the fundamental nature of this question: how much data we still collect and how much they are distributed to some interested party. Here we need to be very careful that business secrets and other interests of companies are protected. I am certainly prepared to discuss these matters constructively with the Riigikogu during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U247	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Riina Sikkut, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U248	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft 29 this year on 3 June. This was presented to the Commission by Minister of Finance Martin Helme and also answered by officials of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The most important question that Valdo Randpere has already pointed out was also asked by the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs: why has this draft been presented as a cluster bill? The transposition of the Directive, the modification of the rights of judges, access to the liquid fuel database, programme grants, changes to information provided in public notices are presented together. Members of the Commission agreed that a single draft is justified if necessary, but in this case the explanatory memorandum must provide clearer information. Maris Lauri proposed to seek the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, or even to inform it that this draft is also intended to change the disclosure of information relating to the work of judges and of information about the judges of the people. This is, in fact, the responsibility of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The officials explained that the draft law was initiated to transpose the Directive. The Directive on the settlement of tax disputes arising from cross-border tax agreements needs to be transposed and the Tax Administration Act amended to that end. The Directive also provides that three members of the Commission appointed by the Finance Ministers of the Member States are to settle disputes falling within the competence of the tax authorities within the competence of the Advisory Council. Since these three members of the Commission should be competent and independent and, in the case of Estonia, these people could also be judges, the law on courts must be amended. The rights of judges to perform any duties are laid down by law. Thus, together with the Tax Administration Act, the Courts Act is amended to include a provision allowing judges to fulfil the role of member of the Advisory Council in tax disputes. At the time of the previous amendment of the Tax Act, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Environmental Agency did not have the right to use information from the fuel handling database. It was now found that this 'amendment' could be made by amending the Tax Administration Act now, so that the state would not have to ask fuel operators for the same information several times. The Commission decided by consensus to set a deadline of 10 working days for the amendments, i.e. the deadline of 27 June 2019 at 4 p.m. The Committee on Monetary Affairs also decided at yesterday's meeting, on 11 June, to ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for an opinion on the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U249	Thank you, dear waitress. You don't have any questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of bill 29 is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 27 June at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U250	Let's go! Today's sixth item: First reading of the draft Act 27 on the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on air traffic between and outside their territories. I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair's Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U251	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Since the two previous points and their handling were very closely related to air traffic, it is appropriate to consider the draft law that will continue to be the subject of this issue. This is a draft act ratifying the agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the United Arab Emirates on air traffic between and outside the territories of these countries. As a result of the Act ratifying the Air Traffic Agreement between Estonia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, a legal basis is created for air services between these countries. Air carriers from both countries will have a level playing field. The Intergovernmental Agreement was signed by the Parties at the United Nations General Assembly meeting on 28 September 2018. The conclusion of an agreement is necessary to increase the number of external routes and the business and tourism sectors' capacity to fly to the Middle East, Southeast Asia, Oceania and Africa. International aviation relations between Member States of the European Union and third countries are traditionally governed by bilateral air traffic agreements, their annexes and other relevant bilateral or multilateral measures. And, as has been said, on 28 September, Estonian Foreign Minister Sven Mikser and Minister of Foreign and International Cooperation of the United Arab Emirates sheik Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan signed an agreement to this effect at the United Nations General Assembly. Since the agreement also regulates the tax issues more specifically regarding the exemptions for airlines concerning on-board supplies and additional equipment, they must be laid down by law in accordance with the Constitution and therefore it is necessary to ratify the agreement in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U252	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I would now like to ask Mr Rimmel, member of the Economic Commission, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U253	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu on 4 June 2019, the discussion of the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates was on the agenda for the first reading. Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Mr Ahti King, Deputy Chancellor of Transport, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were also invited. Minister Taavi Aas introduced a draft law ratifying an agreement between the Government of the United Arab Emirates and the Government of the Republic of Estonia, which creates the possibility of an air link between the two countries. Following the presentation, questions were asked. Sven Mikser wanted to know whether it was always necessary to conclude such an agreement for the emergence of air services from different countries. Mr Aas replied that such an agreement would have to be concluded in direct communication with third countries. Kalvi Tough asked if there was going to be an airline. The King of Ahti replied that negotiations were under way, but the opening of the route would probably be delayed until autumn next year. Kai Rimmel wondered if only Dubai's airline would open the route. The King of Ahti replied that at first the Dubai airline plane will fly four times a week, but this plane is 180 digits, and that's enough. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 12 June and that the draft be sent to second reading when the first reading is closed by 11 September. The decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U254	Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U255	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You mentioned that air travel comes four times a week. Is such an agreement already concluded that it will be possible to travel to Dubai next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U256	As I mentioned, after this agreement has been signed, airlines will start to draw up agreements. As I said, the routes will be opened next year, so by Expo 2020, we should have a direct connection to Dubai.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U257	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U258	Did the Commission mention whether the advance agreements had been concluded? Are we sure we can travel directly to Expo from the home airport in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U259	Sorry, I didn't hear the start of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U260	Did the Commission mention whether advance agreements on the route had been concluded? Can we be sure that we can travel directly from Tallinn to Expo?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U261	On the basis of this agreement, the airline starts from Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U262	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U263	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Any word on which airline is going to serve this route?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U264	Yeah, that was one of our questions. As of this moment, we know that the Dubai airline will be operating this route for the time being.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U265	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 27 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 27 June at 5.15 p.m. Today's sixth item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U266	We will go to today's last, seventh item on the agenda, which is the presentation of a candidate for a Member of the European Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, First, the rapporteur has up to 20 minutes for the presentation, then all members of the Riigikogu can ask one oral question and only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. I would like to ask Mr Kadri Simson, a candidate for a Member of the European Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U267	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 6 June, the Government of the Republic of Estonia decided in principle to nominate me as a member of the next European Commission. The appointment of a candidate for a Commissioner of the European Commission is known to be a competence of the Government of the Republic, but I consider it important and very appropriate that the candidate also introduce himself before the Riigikogu plenary. A format like today is a first. The first two times the Estonian candidate was heard by the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs and last time, five years ago, this issue was resolved in the format of the discussion of a crucial national issue. After that, § 155 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act was amended. I thank the Riigikogu for this opportunity and the Government of the Republic for their trust. The government's decision to submit me to the next composition of the European Commission, as well as to the present composition, if this place is released in Estonia as a candidate for a member means a great deal of responsibility to me. I'm not gonna take it easy. Our history in the European Commission is not long; Estonia has only had two Commissioners. The representatives of the Commission so far have, in my opinion, done their job well, and I hope to continue what they started. Of course, I appreciate the advice that Siim Kallas and Andrus Ansip are willing to give me on the basis of their work so far. As we can see from the decision of the Government of the Republic, I will first and foremost be nominated for the Estonian Commissioner in the future European Commission. However, here before you, I can assure you that I am ready to start working in the current composition, if Andrus Ansip is to become a Member of the European Parliament. My current work experience as a member of the parliament and Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure also gives me good preconditions to represent Estonia with dignity in Europe. As you no doubt know, I was given a very strong platform in this area by the successful Presidency of the Council of the European Union, in which I had the honour of leading the internal market, energy and transport. Much was done during the Presidency, the biggest steps were taken in energy, where we exceeded the planned targets and moved forward vigorously with the clean energy package, but we were also effective in other areas. The strong work of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications was also highly remembered by the prestigious edition Politico, who gave the highest marks from the Estonian presidency's fields of energy policy, which, like employment and social policy, received 9 points out of 10. I take this opportunity once again to thank all the people involved in the Estonian Presidency and, separately, the officials of the MKM, thanks to whom Estonia left a very strong mark. Good members of the Riigikogu! The question of what the portfolio of the next Estonian Commissioner will be in the new Commission is impossible to answer today. The exact division of work between the members of the Commission is decided by the new President, and there is no agreement on his identity. It is possible that it will be elected to the Council on 20 or 21 June and will be approved by the European Parliament in July, but it may also take some longer. It is clear, however, that the new President will change the current division of work. Of course, every candidate for a Commissioner has a vision of what role he could best play, but the precise allocation of 27 responsibilities will not be clarified until a few months later. It is clear that my current work experience creates good preconditions for dealing with energy, economy or transport, but the final decision on responsibilities and portfolios will, of course, remain with the future President of the Commission, who will have to consider each Commissioner candidate and the right division of roles. I am sure that the future president will succeed in this task. There has been talk in the Estonian media that one Commissioner's position is more important than any other, and I believe that in the European Commission, all areas of responsibility are important and dignified. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The first thing, of course, is to decide the future President of the Commission and the other leading positions. There have also been situations where the new Commission cannot start work on 1 November and the outgoing Commission must therefore continue its work beyond the time allowed by its mandate. If Estonia's current Commissioner, Andrus Ansip, decides to move to the European Parliament, Estonia has the right to appoint a new Commissioner-designate who will carry out the duties of Commissioner until the end of the term of office of President Juncker's Commission, that is to say, certainly until 31 October or as long as the new commissioners are in office. It should not be assumed that replacing the current Commissioner would mean a few months of work without tasks. While the duties of the so-called 'intermediate Commissioner' will be different from those of Vice-President Ansip, it is clear that the Juncker Commission will continue on full track and there will be a number of important discussions ahead. During its term of office, the Juncker Commission has launched 474 legislative proposals, and further work was carried out on 44 previous Commission initiatives. To date, 351 of all initiatives have been put into effect, in cooperation with the European Parliament and the Council, which means that 167 are still in work. The most important of these may be, from our point of view, the MFM 2021-2027, the financial framework of the European Union. I know that President Juncker has criticised the appointment of interim commissioners, but here it should be noted that the Government of the Republic has not set me up as a candidate, just in view of the time until the start of the new composition's work. On the contrary, the government has presented my candidacy to the future committee, but if necessary, I can start work earlier. It is the right of every country to appoint a commissioner. This will ensure that decisions taken by the Commission can be accompanied by the necessary information and information on what is happening in the European Union's decision-making process. Of the members of the current Commission, five Commissioners were elected to the European Parliament. It can be assumed that, in addition to our Commissioner, the Dutch and Romanian Commissioners will also adopt the mandate of the European Parliament. The three countries therefore have the opportunity to appoint a member of the future Commission in the past. But also with regard to the next Commission, our decision is not the earliest. Our northern neighbours, Finns, have chosen their future Commissioner, who will be Minister of Finance Jutta Urpilainen in 2011-2014. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that it is in the interests of all of us that there is a strong and solidarity European Union. The cornerstones of the European Union's common values and cooperation are trust and solidarity, which Estonia is prepared to contribute to. A united and open European Union is in our interests. The new European Commission, which will soon be in office, must pay attention to Europe's security and must not forget its close relations with the United Kingdom, also in the field of security. Relations between the Union and our allies must be contributed and developed. Today it is not yet clear what will happen to the United Kingdom, but it is understandable that we will not be able to do without good and strong ties in the future. European unity has been repeatedly questioned over recent years and there are those who believe that the European Union will continue to weaken in the Brexit wind. I am convinced that difficult times need to unite us even more and make us stronger. And Brexit's uncourageable experience has rather given strength to those whose goal is to strengthen their home country through European cooperation. European countries alone and alone cannot compete with other major powers in the world. As a whole, we are the future, but separately, we are history. We are also talking about the European internal market. I believe that a stronger European internal market is in all our interests and will create new opportunities for European businesses, including Estonia, to compete on an equal footing in the world. Just as in Estonia we have started to reduce all kinds of bureaucratic measures that restrict business activity, such unnecessary obstacles must also be removed in the European internal market. We need fewer barriers and more cooperation. We need to develop a digital internal market because it helps to promote social well-being. We must continue to lead technological innovation, because it is our natural competitive advantage. As a strong digital state, Estonia can contribute to pan-European development. Good Europeans! I have been operating in Estonian politics for two decades, and during this time I have gathered some opponents, but also a large number of supporters and friends. You know me and my views. And even if they do not always overlap, there is no doubt always mutual respect between us. My views don't come as a surprise to anyone. I am a liberal and believe in the European Union and in our common market, in the movement of people without borders, and I consider every person to be important. I stand for new transport solutions and other projects, I consider innovation from transport to energy everywhere important. The European Commission faces many challenges, one of the most important of which is the future funding period. Of course, security, border issues, the European Union's economy and competition with the world's great powers, as well as cooperation, are still on the table as acute issues. Dear Members, While the Government of the Republic has made a fundamental decision to propose me as Commissioner-designate, before taking office, my nomination must be approved by the candidate for President of the European Commission. I will then have to stand before the European Parliament. The composition of the European Commission as a whole shall be approved by the European Parliament and appointed by the European Council. So my journey here today will not end before you. Nevertheless, I am pleased that I could come to the Riigikogu to present my views and answer your questions. I thank you for your good cooperation and I am sure it will continue in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U268	Thank you. You have questions too. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U269	Thank you. Kadri Simson! I think you are a very good candidate to represent Estonia in the European Commission, and I think that your passing through all these filters, which are quite serious, will be successful. You have, in fact, already answered many of the supposed questions that interest you, but could you also say some areas that you certainly do not want? Secondly, I would like to say that your experience in the Council, or as a minister in managing a certain form of Council, etc., is a bit of a different world. We do not really know what the European Parliament is doing. You will have a great deal to do there, you must defend your positions in committees and, at all, in order to carry out something, you must receive support in Parliament. How good do you appreciate your knowledge and understanding of the actual functioning of the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U270	Thank you very much for the multi-layered question. I actually rely first and foremost on the knowledge we received in connection with the Estonian Presidency. In preparation for the Presidency, we went to the committees of the European Parliament to present our programme for the future and then to summarise what has been achieved later. In parallel, contacts had to be maintained with both the rapporteurs and the key players on whom the progress of the files we needed depended. So I have this experience of cooperation, although there is no experience of being a Member of the European Parliament. However, this has been lacking for many Commissioners before me. As far as areas are concerned, I do not think that we should go to negotiations with the future President on the basis of the exclusion method. I expect every good leader to look at the team as a whole and put every Commissioner candidate in charge of the area for which he has the prerequisites.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U271	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U272	Thank you. Mrs. Simson! I would, of course, be happy to listen to Andrus Ansip, but that's the way he's going. As long as this government persists, you are the candidate. But say something like that. When you were chairman of a political group, the Centre Party Group had a strong position that the Commissioner-designate should be voted on by Parliament. How are you now here before us without a vote by Parliament? Have you changed your position and, if so, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U273	First of all, I hope that your desire to listen to much and often to Andrus Ansip will come true. As far as this format is concerned, indeed, five years ago our group had a strong desire for this format to reach ELAK, where it is known that far fewer members of the Riigikogu are able to participate than today in the large hall. The Rules of Procedure were therefore amended in autumn 2014. Finally, looking for a compromise in 2014, it reached the same format as for ministers: it is possible to come before the Riigikogu and make political statements. This shows that the Centre Party was highly compromising in opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U274	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U275	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable candidate for a Member of the European Commission. You have announced that one area of interest to you is energy, the other is transport. The European Commission assesses Member States' economic development plans by semesters. If you look at what estimates Estonia has made of these investments, we can see that there are shortcomings in investment in the development of transport and energy infrastructure. We have problems with energy efficiency. But these shortcomings have been going on for a long time, and these assessments have been transferred from one of the recommendations of the European Commission to the other. You have been responsible for these areas as a minister. What is your position: are the levers at the disposal of the European Commission to ensure that Member States comply with the Commission's recommendations sufficient or need to restructure?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U276	The last advice or suggestions were given to us from day to day a week ago, and there were also suggestions for better connections. More specifically, energy associations were discussed. With desynchronousisation, we have reached real steps since long, almost a decade of preparatory work, already from this funding period funding has been provided for preliminary work. The European Commission hopes that, even during the next budget period, we will invest in the interests of energy security and energy associations. The same applies to good transport connections. I think that these are two issues on which we agree with the European Union: Estonia deserves secure connections and also deserves our southern neighbours. What really is not yet ahead of us, and which was part of the precept, was that the use of fossil fuels in the transport sector has increased in Estonia over five years. We were clearly advised that innovative solutions should be found, that individuals prefer something other than private cars to move, and that freight transport on the roads should be replaced by more sustainable modes of transport. There is certainly work going on in Estonia to achieve this, but the European Commission also has concrete initiatives that force Member States to do so eagerly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U277	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U278	Thank you, manager. Mr President, the candidate for a Member of the European Commission. I wish you every success in your future responsibility. But I ask: is there anything that you, as a long-term active politician, did not do or did not quite do here in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U279	First of all, thank you for your good wishes. Given how short, in fact, to consider the number of decades, my work experience is, I hope that I still have a lot to do in Estonia. It is certainly not goodbye to Estonia to take up this job. I intend to return in the future and do everything that has not been done so far, if possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U280	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U281	Thank you. Good Kadri! You may not be able to manage the favorite areas you want. It may be that you are going to deal with the common agricultural policy. That cannot be ruled out. Why don't you enlighten the great hall of the Riigikogu, what do you think of the common agricultural policy? And the second question is this. If you get a job there, that means that you are no longer a candidate from Estonia, but you are one of the Commissioners. You can no longer rely solely on the interests of Estonia. How do you feel about getting over this role conflict? Can you say no to Estonia if it is necessary to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U282	I know that Estonia has strong allies among top European officials. But the Commissioner really cannot take instructions or action guidelines from the Estonian Parliament or from the Government of the Republic of Estonia. The Commissioner stands for a common European success. The question, however, was what would happen to me if I became the Commissioner for Agriculture. In general, I think it is a position that has quite strong competition. In a number of very influential Member States of the European Union, agriculture is one of the most important areas associated with the European Union. Of course, one of the most important objectives for the countries of our region is that subsidies for countries that have entered the European Union at different times continue to equalise. I generally think that as a learner, I will be able to familiarise myself with all areas of the subject in a relatively short time. This is particularly because the Commissioner, if he is not Vice-President, has very strong support from the Directorate. He can use the wisdom gathered by professional bureaucrats over decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U283	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U284	Thank you. Good waitress! First of all, I would like to congratulate you on coming to Parliament to present your plans and wishes. That's how you show your professionalism. That's a great example. In fact, the European Union, as an institution, is often accused of a democratic deficit. And one of the problems in this area is the fact that the right to a legislative initiative is overwhelmingly the European Commission, which, as you have also very well referred to, does not have a direct mandate for the people. They have been appointed, not elected. It is very difficult for the citizens of the European Union to put EU policy on the agenda, mainly by large-scale lobbyists. What is your position on this issue, and how could the institutional structure of the European Union be reformed in such a way that it responds more effectively to the demands of democracy and that citizens have more effective control over legislation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U285	Thank you for a very meaningful question. In practical life, I have also seen positive cases where citizens have managed to come up with an idea which, from the Commission's point of view, has not been very important at European Union level and has required a solution, but an initiative has been taken at the request of the Member States. To give an example of this, a few years ago, in the Republic of Finland, a popular initiative was taken, too, and we have the opportunity to organise a popular initiative to give up every spring and autumn turn-off. To that end, the Finnish Minister brought the matter to the Council of Transport Ministers of the European Union, after which the Commission was instructed to initiate the relevant procedure. So, on such very everyday issues, too, it is possible for the citizens of one Member State to initiate a process. The Commission has shown great enthusiasm on this issue, some Member States have not been prepared to follow this pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U286	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U287	Thank you, Mr President. Good Kadri, hot competitor and partner! I am grateful and concerned at the same time. I'm grateful that you've stood hot for Rail Baltic, but worried that you've taken the coalition party against Rail Baltic. And, unfortunately, it is not only rhetorical but also reflected in the coalition agreement. It has been translated into saying that if the EU co-financing for the next financial period is not at least 81% for this project, then the Rail Baltic route, local stops and timetable will be taken apart. That is, unfortunately, the wording. Can you reassure me about this wording a little bit or better: can you, as Commissioner-designate, confirm that you will in any case ensure that, in the next financial period of the European Union, at least 81% of the money of the European Union will cover Rail Baltic?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U288	The final decision on the volume of the financial period is likely to be taken in December this year. Today, we know that it has been decided in the Council of Ministers of the Sector, or Transport Ministers, that projects such as Rail Baltic, which provide a fast connection to the Member State, which has so far been missing and whose development has begun in the years of the previous financial period, can continue with the same funding rate as promised. The same has been overconfirmed by the European Parliament. So Rail Baltic now has all the preconditions for being an exceptional priority project for the European Union, which will be funded at a higher rate than similar projects will be launched in the future. Of course, we need to know in Estonia that if there is a significant shortage of funding, what are the solutions, how to proceed. The same question is raised in Latvia and Lithuania. Today, however, we are looking very positively at the future, because all the stages to date have gone as we wish. But as long as there is no final confirmation, we need to have option B in reserve, what to do if the funding does not meet expectations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U289	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U290	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Good Kadri! I have participated in many hearings with the European Commission's Commissioners, and in this light I can say that I am sure that you will do very well there. It's a complicated job, but in any case, you're a strong candidate. My question concerns the European Union's climate and environmental policy. We know that in this regard, the price of coal and oil shale electricity has gone so high that it is no longer competitive. And, of course, the question is, what will happen to the regions affected: what will happen to the coal mines and to the oil shale mines in Estonia? We have such an area in Ida-Virumaa, other countries have their own regions. What are you going to do to make Ida-Viru County part of these aid programmes? So far, the focus has only been on coal areas, due to the inactivity of the Estonian government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U291	Climate policy discussions have so far taken place in the format of environmental ministers. We know that the European Union has set itself very ambitious ambitions, especially to reduce CO2 emissions. This will also inevitably aggravate the market situation of oil shale electricity producing companies. The European Union's aid projects, which are primarily aimed at coal production areas, include social retraining opportunities, and the Republic of Estonia can now offer these opportunities to these workers. At the same time, we can ourselves look for ways for energy engineers to continue in the energy sector without re-learning. I think that, first of all, Estonia should find ways to continue electricity as an exporting country and use the professional skills of those people in the field in which they are trained to work. If there is a question of whether Estonia should be actively involved in all European Union projects, then yes, I agree. This programme to assist coal regions has been raised on several occasions and, as far as I know, the Estonian Ministry of Industry has sent its representatives to this task force.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U292	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U293	Thank you. Kadri, I think you're a good candidate too. So I don't have too much to ask you to wish you luck. But there's still one question that connects a little with your previous profession and hopefully to the future. As Minister of Economic Affairs or as Commissioner in the future, even though you can no longer directly represent Estonia's interests there, if you are going to take up the topic of Estonian air connections or raise air connections on the table from small deadland areas such as Estonia in some respects? On the other side of us is the European Union's border, and yet we have state aid rules that make our airlines, one after the other, wrestle with financial difficulties. We could actually have some good reason why these rules should be changed. Many have promised that they will raise this issue and solve the problem, but we have not yet seen the result. Are you gonna do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U294	Thank you for your question. This was one of the topics during the Estonian Presidency, when our host was the informal meeting of the Transport Council of Ministers of the rest of the European Union's transport ministers and, of course, the Transport Commissioner. We discussed the European Union's strict state aid rules, which reduce the possibility of connections in peripheral European Union areas, which are often the end points of air connections. These airports are not used as intermediate airports. This is our remote neighborhood, with some island states like this in southern Europe. The European Commission has commissioned studies to this effect. But indeed, the relaxation of the rules to solve the problems of these countries has not been achieved, because there are good times in aviation today. The number of air connections in all of them, when I say in all of them, maybe I am not factually accurate, but in most of the countries of the European Union, there has been a significant increase. But this problem has been on the table, it was also a topic during the Estonian Presidency. Certainly, when aviation is no longer such a good time, it will be particularly painful for us and for other Member States in a similar situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U295	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U296	Dear waitress, One of Brexit's reasons is the excessive concentration of power in Brussels, the continuing federalisation. The year 2018 brought further proposals for further federalisation. One was the proposal by Economic Commissioner Moskovic on a common budget for the euro area and the other was the proposal by Macron on the establishment of a joint army. What do you think of these proposals?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U297	There have also been other types of proposals. For Estonia, which is an exception, the proposal that a minimum corporate tax rate could apply throughout the European Union, or the idea that there could be the same minimum wage throughout the European Union, maybe be exciting. So it depends on which area we're looking at. In some areas where Estonia is somewhat more modest in its development, especially in the social field, we would certainly win. As far as defence cooperation is concerned, I do not think it is worthwhile for the European Union to make a parallel structure alongside NATO. NATO is a defence organisation and all the Member States of the European Union who have had a desire to cooperate on this level of defence have had the opportunity to join NATO. However, in the wider context of federalisation, all Member States must approve. Such initiatives will not be agreed without the Council's approval. We know that such decisions will not be taken by the heads of government with easy hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U298	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U299	Thank you. Undoubtedly, Kadri, you're a very good candidate, but I'm kind of worried about you. The government that nominated you is exactly what it is. And when you go to Europe, at home, your party has one such partner who has thought that the European Union should be dissolved, that we have an in-depth state and that we have all these agents of the European Commission, etc. How are you gonna handle this double life?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U300	Good Kalvi! Worrying belongs to the essence of Estonians. Just because you're worried doesn't make me more worried. However, as regards the fact that I am being sent as a candidate by decision by the current government, I assume that such matters may also come before the vote in the European Parliament, I rely on the Government's coalition agreement and on what has been agreed there. Like the previous government, this government considered it very important that the first chapter of the coalition agreement is about foreign and security policy. It confirms that our foreign and security policy is based on the interests of the Estonian state, that we carry it out, belonging to the European Union and NATO, and that it is important for us to have unity and cooperation between the European Union and NATO. But, of course, as a nation state, it is our right to say that we see the European Union as a union of states, not a union of states. And that's what it says in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U301	During this item on the agenda, every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask only one question to the rapporteur. Let's keep going. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U302	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Kadri! Although we became almost as big as Berlin in Pärnu, it seems that it will still be small for you and the next local elections will be duller in Pärnu. But no doubt thank you for your cooperation in developing the airport, Rail Baltic and Via Baltica! But my question comes about an initiative that has been discussed in the government office as a special plan. This is the Tallinn-Helsing tunnel. How do you feel about Europe in your heart, and how do you feel about financing this project? Could the mobilisation of Chinese capital be a good plan? And what is the possibility that the project will also be funded as a contribution from the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U303	One of the first stages of Tallinn's Helsinki tunnel was a study carried out with European Union co-financing aimed at predicting how much this longest underwater tunnel in the world could cost. Consequently, the Estonian and Finnish governments considered that this tunnel could be a co-operation project between the two countries, as well as a European Union project, in the sense that the facility would meet all technical requirements and other standards in force in the European Union. So when this tunnel is being built, there will be no reduction in criteria in the area of environment and safety. It is true that no major infrastructure has been built in the European Union so far with a Chinese state loan, while ports, railways and other objects have been built outside Europe by the Chinese. We have met tunnel developers and probably this funding would not come without Member States giving very high guarantees of construction. At some point it is necessary to decide whether such a project, and such a large amount of funding, will in future be worth the Member State's guarantees.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U304	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U305	Thank you. Good Kadri! On my side, you'll get good wishes too! There are great things, there are small things, certainly they are not comparable, but people make connections between them. You said one of your favorite topics was transport and smart transport solutions. But I was contacted a while ago by one of my constituents from Hiiumaa, who said that if Kadri Simson was going to make big transport projects smart, couldn't it happen the way the Hiiumaa ship connection happened? The giants were finally miserable, sad, and some even evil. Help me comfort this person! Do you expect to do great things, even in the field of transport?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U306	Yes, indeed, I must admit that a year ago, on a big Friday, the sea was low and many giants did not return to the mainland after the holidays. But the conclusions were drawn. The Rye Peace Channel has been deepened and the funds needed to deepen the budget strategy have been planned for all years to come. So in the future, low sea water, which is not directly dependent on the Minister for Transport, should not hinder the connection to the ship.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U307	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U308	Thank you. Good Commissioner-designate! I, too, wish you every success in the next hearings and look forward to seeing how it is going. You said before that you were a very convinced European, a supporter of the European Union. At the same time, in recent years, the voice of Eurosceptics has been increasing, trying to show that all bad things come from Europe or more precisely from Brussels. What do you intend to do as Commissioner, so that those who hesitate can see less of a problem in the European Union and more of an opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U309	Thank you for a very broad question. The fact that I have believed in Europe may accompany my history. Perhaps some of you will remember that when Estonia was about to enter the European Union, the only party where there was a lively debate, whether taking a stand in a referendum, yes or not saying no should be a matter of everyone's conscience, was the Centre Party. At the time, quite a large number of members of the Executive Board of the Centre Party, I among them, approached the party, and we recommended that the Congress vote in favour of the 'yes' response. What can I do now? As Europe develops as a region, develops in a positive direction, provides good opportunities for people in terms of employment, and for young people in terms of better education. Europe must be able to compete with other major economies. For this reason, Commissioners should be able to encourage the development of innovation, discourage red tape and make their day-to-day work more competitive in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U310	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U311	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the candidate for a Member of the European Commission. You've made a very nice impression on me, too. But I have a question. You are, like, in favour of the European Union, and I am absolutely convinced that you can do a great deal for Estonia by cooperating with the European Union. But why did you not vote on the question of whether the flags of the European Union could decorate the White Hall? Didn't you like the way in this sitting, let's say, this whole procedure was built up, or what's the reason you didn't vote? And do you think this is a good signal for Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U312	Thank you for your question. I am generally convinced that the debate on flags in this format, as we had here, does not have a good influence on the overall image of the Riigikogu, nor is there a reasonable way of resolving matters. If I can recommend anything to the Board of the Riigikogu, I suggest that, despite this vote, we go to a compromise that is suitable for all political groups, so that the flags of all important organisations, as well as the flags of the Republic of Estonia, are honoured in the Estonian parliament. And the place for these flags would be right at our entrance. I think that, in a situation where we have just been elected as non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, there could also be a UN flag alongside the flag of Estonia, NATO and the European Union. Why didn't I vote? Perhaps you noticed that I asked before the vote what we were voting on. I understand everyone's enthusiasm for always voting and taking a stand, but if the issue is not properly formulated, sometimes it is worth not taking a stand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U313	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U314	Thank you, good manager. Good Kadri! I also think that you are a very good candidate for a Member of the European Commission. If we needed to vote here, I'd vote for you. In your speech, you said nicely that you were a pro-European liberal. But do you see any danger, anything unpleasant in this situation, that Mart Helme, for example, has answered Andres Kuuse's question, which is a deep state, saying that these are special services working in the interests of the European Commission? And indeed, Mr Helme confirmed that he did not support the deepening of economic and monetary union. If Estonian ministers represent such views at European level, could you be difficult in the role of Commissioner or what position you take towards Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U315	I generally believe that every political power has the right to express its views, even if they do not coincide with those of competitors. This whole-life skepticism usually comes with caution! The political parties are on a stronger side when they are in opposition. While working daily in government, it is possible to see how decisions are actually made and are not created by mysterious forces, but by logical root causes. Often these are the political decisions that we make ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U316	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U317	Thank you. Good Kadri! I don't really have a question. I hope that the benefits and interests of Estonia will be there in your heart, too, and I wish you much success and strength and strength to do so!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U318	Thank you, good Henn!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U319	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U320	Thank you, manager. Commissioner-designate, good colleague and partymate Kadri! Here colleagues have recently asked a question about what will happen if you are given a portfolio of the Commissioner for Agriculture. In my opinion, this is one of the most valued and valuable portfolios in the selection that is there. A third of the budget falls within the remit of this Commissioner. Can you tell Estonia and other Baltic farmers that you will do everything you can to get this portfolio?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U321	Good Tarmo! I fully agree that this is one of the most valued portfolios in terms of its weight and financial capacity. In the opinion of quite a number of Member States, one of the most important advantages of the European Union is what has been done for agriculture in the Community. I do not know anyone personally, apart from the Finnish Commissioner-designate and a few Commissioners-designate who will continue in office, but I have an evil suspicion that some Member States will propose a candidate for a Commissioner for Agriculture with experience from the Minister for Agriculture. So this competition would be pretty complicated. But, of course, if, for some reason, it is believed that as a country with a strong agricultural tradition, Estonia deserves this portfolio, then I will not object.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U322	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U323	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Kadri Samson! For my part, I certainly wish you success, strength, and endurance to pass through these gauntlets! But I had a little scratch on the question of a good colleague, on which you said that you did not understand what we should vote on. Did you notice that we had two votes and that before the second flag vote was held in the Riigikogu, it was very clear what we were voting on? Personally, I think that the flag of the European Union could have stood in the White House from the moment we joined the Union. There shouldn't be such a vote in this house at all. But if the future President of the Commission asks you, good Kadri, why did you not press the button, what do you say to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U324	I think that such a vote in the Riigikogu Chamber was not appropriate. I also think that there is certainly a place in the Riigikogu for the flag of the European Union. That the flag of the European Union will be placed in an honorable position, I support. I also support this alternative, which has been put forward, is not just a matter of one organisation to which we belong, there are several other important organisations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U325	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. Thank you so much for your answer. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Centre Party Group, please, Anneli Ott!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U326	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Commission has a responsibility in the European Union. There will be no European Union law unless the European Commission initiates it. The European Commission is keeping an eye on the implementation of the agreements made in the European Union. The Commission stands for the common values of the European Union and keeps track of the spending of the Union's budget. The Commission maintains a balance of power between the institutions of the European Union. This is why we have considered it important that the number of members of the European Union Commission corresponds to the number of Member States. The presence of an Estonian representative in the European Commission is important. The European Commission acts on the principle of shared responsibility. All Members of the Commission shall have an equal say in decision-making. While the members of the European Commission must represent the wider European interests in their work, as people, we inevitably reflect who we are, what our attitudes, experience and knowledge are when we do our work. Through our representative, Estonian attitudes and knowledge will also reach the Commission's decision-making table. This is clearly one of the highest positions to which Estonia sends its representative. The representative of Estonia in the European Commission must be broad-minded, expert, open and courageous. I am convinced that this work will be assisted by a long experience of parliamentary work, which will also ensure a sense of the wider political system of the European Union. The European Commission must engage actively with the national parliaments of the European Union and be able to find compromises with the political groups of the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, It is in our interest that the European Commission continues to work towards strengthening the euro area and the internal market, better cooperation between Member States, security and stability of citizens in the European Union's neighbourhood. We need the European Commission to encourage the private sector to contribute more actively to innovation and research over the next five years. The European Commission also plays an important role in agreeing on the future budgetary framework for the European Union and in establishing a good future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. It is also very clear that solutions need to be found in climate policy. Exciting and responsible discussions and decisions are ahead. A Member of the Commission must courageously stand up for the principles set out in the European Union's founding treaties, such as respect for human dignity and human rights, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law. Large and small interest groups must be involved fairly in the preparation of European Union law. It is necessary to communicate directly and clearly the decisions of the European Union both in Brussels and in the Member States on the ground. Good ambassadors! Kadri Samson has the experience of transporting the topics of competitiveness and European unification from the time of the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. A minister with responsibility for development plans in the transport and energy sectors cannot, however, be well informed about climate issues. Kadri Simson was a member of the European Union Affairs Committee when the European debt crisis measures were agreed. There is no doubt that our candidate for the European Commission is well suited to this post. It is a broad-ranging politician who has proven himself sufficiently in different occupations. Kadri Simson is industrious, well-known among the people, brave and, if necessary, fluent enough. I am convinced that Kadri can do great in Europe by representing Estonia. Our group supports the Commissioner-designate and is supported by the entire Centre Party. Our Commissioner-designate, as well as the Centre Party, represent the common principles agreed in the European Parliament by the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, and the Centre Party will continue to cooperate in this political group. Kadri Simson has been a party spokesperson in this context and is also well known in the political corridors of the European Union. The European Commission has a crucial role to play in the European Union. The more competent and diverse the membership of the Commission, the more effective it will work. The better quality proposals the European Commission offers, the better the final decisions of the European Union will be. It is important that Estonia is represented in the European Commission by a politician who is as professional as possible, because it needs to talk about matters in the European Union and they are not always the easiest. But even more difficult disputes need to be kept on the table. By doing so, we will not lose the trust and support of our citizens. Kadri has all the personal qualities to be a good Commissioner and to strengthen the entire European Commission. The Centre Party Group supports the candidacy of Kadri Simson as Commissioner of the European Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U327	Thank you. Kalvi Tough, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party! Five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U328	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I note that listening to a candidate for a Member of the European Commission in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu is an extremely grateful activity. Last time we did not have this opportunity, the candidate was listened to in ELAK. However, the Riigikogu must be able to find out from a direct source what positions the potential candidate for the Estonian state has in the position of Commissioner of the European Commission, what he thinks about the European Union and its future. So the decision, which was once made with the votes of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, is justified in every way. Kadri! I want to thank you for coming before us, being very thoroughly prepared. Your presentation and answers were substantive and sympathetic and proved that Estonia's candidate for the next European Commission is fully European. We think you're qualified to do this job. Plus, it's also undoubtedly a woman proposed by the government this time. There's a reason to trust you, Kadri, but there's a big problem with this place. I will say this now: this is a concern raised by one of the three parties to the government union. Yeah, EKRE, you're the Sangbomb on Kadri Samson's leg. After all, it is a party that has repeatedly and systematically shown hostility to the European Union over the years and whose members have repeatedly spoken of Estonia's departure from the European Union, its collapse. And especially, dear friends, you have set your goal to smear and take down the European Commission. Colorful examples of your statements could be included in Google's search and will be page-by-page. On the other hand, EKRE Ministers have approved a candidate for a Member of the European Commission who must meet the requirements laid down in the Treaty on European Union and in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The schizophrenic situation for you, Kadri, and also for you, the good EKRE faction. The Social Democrats find this bomb called EKRE very difficult, if not impossible, for Kadri to shake off his leg at least until the EKRE belongs to the government or has not changed. But okay! We hope that you, good Kadri, will return to a better Estonia in five years' time, as you said in a recent interview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U329	Thank you. Kaja Kallas, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U330	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I was moved by Anneli Ot's speech here on the remote. As I have already said, I think that Kadri will be perfectly able to make these hearings in the European Parliament, which are really difficult, take three hours. A candidate needs to know his field very well. I'm sure you'll be able to figure it all out and get through it perfectly. But I was motivated by the speech of Anneli Ot, where he referred to the values of ALDE. This is the group we belong to in the European Parliament, and these are the values that we bear and which Kadri must represent. Here's the problem. The problem is that all the values that we regard as European values, and which are also enshrined in the Atlantic Charter, are freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of speech, but also freedom from fear, are, unfortunately, values that the current government is watering down. So this is, like Kalvi said, a very, very schizophrenic situation. In fact, you support these values, but your actions here on the ground say something completely different. It is my wish that you should follow your words and that these values should actually be honest and protected both in Estonia and in Europe at large. Lots of strength for you there!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-06-12_U331	Thank you. The political groups do not want to negotiate any more. I'm closing the negotiations. This item has been discussed. Today's trial is over. Thank you to all participants. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.39 p.m.
