ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U1	Good morning, honourable members of the Riigikogu. It is time to start the Thursday sitting, this is the Thursday session of the 8th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I'm ready to accept drafts and inquiries. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We have now come to the point that we have received a motion of distrust from the Minister of Rural Affairs, Mart Järvik. Looking at the government's activities, the Commission has been put together, with the sole aim of delaying this decision, in order to help people out of this situation, we are making a motion of mistrust. The Minister of Rural Affairs Mart Järvik has proved in the last six months that he is unworthy of being a member of the government. It has engaged in activities that obstruct the activities of the Food and Veterinary Office in ensuring food safety, potentially putting human health at risk. He has openly lied, he has preferred private interests to the interests of the state. All these are reasons enough to distrust the Minister for Rural Affairs. I'm handing over a motion of distrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U3	Got it. The motion of distrust has been adopted and is immediately forwarded to the government for the purpose of forming a position. We also have the representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs Heili Tõnisson, to hand over the draft government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates the Act on funded pensions and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U5	Thank you very much. This draft has also been adopted and will be dealt with in accordance with the procedures laid down. Incoming check, please! There are 88 of us, there are 13 missing, but there are quite enough of us to discuss today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U6	On the agenda we have one item, this is the draft law amending the Law on Animal Disease Control, the Law on State Fees, the Law on Feed, the Food Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act 90, initiated by the Government of the Republic. We'll start with a second reading. I would like a member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, Merry Aart, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U7	Good morning, everyone! It's good to see everyone here with very happy faces after the last sitting. It is a sincere pleasure. Hello, everyone! President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to touch a little bill 90. First of all, I would like to remind you that this bill was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 7 October. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session was on 21 October and the first reading was closed. A small reminder that the purpose of the Law amending the Law on epizootic diseases, the State Tax Act, the Feed Act, the Food Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act is to bring these laws into line and to implement Regulation (EC) No 625 of the European Parliament and of the Council from 2017 on official controls and other official activities carried out with a view to ensuring the application of food and feed law and animal health and animal welfare, plant health and plant protection products. This law updates or repeals several...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, Again, I would like to remind you that all performers are right to be heard, so I ask you not to buzz, but to let the waitress speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U9	It's okay. I can wait until you're done. [[Laughing.]] My respect for you. But we'll go on from here. This law updates or repeals a number of provisions of the aforementioned laws. Perhaps two of the most important ones are that the procedure for controlling feed of non-animal origin from outside the European Union will be changed if it has so far been checked at 100%, then it will now be carried out on a risk basis, and the second most important amendment is that when the principles of official controls and financing other official activities are changed in the feed law, the state fee will be replaced by a supervisory fee for control activities. The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed draft law 90 at its meeting on 4 November. During the meeting, the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and procedural decisions were taken. Hendrik Kuusk, Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, as well as Maia Radin from the Food Safety Department and the Legal Advisers Katrin Tuula and Diana Rammul. Signe Sarah Arro, a member of the EVEA Council, also attended this meeting. The Commission asked stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft for an opinion on the draft. There were 15 interest groups, I wouldn't read them all. In addition, the Estonian Food Industry Association, EVEA and the Estonian Society of Small Animal Doctors sent their opinion. The Estonian Food Industry Association also proposed the introduction of a supervisory fee for primary producers, who have been exempted from this fee so far. Hendrik Kuusk of the Ministry of Rural Affairs said that so far there has been an agreement that primary producers will not be burdened with this remuneration. It's like a social agreement that's been in place so far. However, he said that the Ministry of Rural Affairs was planning to order an analysis of the supervisory fees and that it was also intended to examine the impact of imposing the obligation to pay the supervisory fee on primary producers. The EVEA pointed out the fears in the sector that the Food and Veterinary Office would be maintained through monitoring fees. This fear is quite a number of sectors, because it is not quite understood, but Hendrik Kuusk also took this fear down, who said that the VTA's supervisory budget is about 25%, and the rest comes from the state. The Estonian Society of Small Animal Doctors also proposed, but their proposal did not concern this law. The draft has passed a technical and linguistic correction and the proposals accepted by the originator's representative have also been included in the draft text.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U10	Is...? Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U11	I'll go on now, yeah. I'm very sorry, but I've been working very hard on the task force, and I know that when people really need to discuss something between themselves, they just have to be allowed to discuss it, there's no point in interfering. But then let's move on to the amendments. The deadline for submitting amendments, which was 28 October, did not receive any amendments from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Ministry of Rural Affairs presented amendments for consideration to the lead committee. The Commission decided on the amendments in a consensual manner and supported all the proposed amendments. There were three, they were not substantive, but one amendment was due to a reference error and two amendments were made for linguistic reasons, without changing the content. The commission adopted a decision to send a draft law amending the Law on Disease Control, State Tax Act, Feed Act, Food Act and Veterinary Organisation Act to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 14 November with a proposal to terminate the second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 20 November and to put the bill to the final vote on the 90. That's all I got. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U12	Thank you very much. There are questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U13	Good manager, good waitress! I'm sorry! This is an exceptionally interesting draft, and many of the ambassadors have already discussed it vividly before, but I will open a long line of questions. It is known that the state fee law is the one that has been most amended. My question is, why has the state fee, such a beautiful clear concept, been replaced by a supervisory fee? Is the idea that we should not go back to changing the law on state fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U14	Thank you. We did not discuss the amendment of the State Fees Act in the Commission. But I understand there's a difference in substance. If the state fee was still on the quantity and was paid each year, then the supervisory fee has to be paid for the actual operations. So that's the difference in terms of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U15	Kalle Grünthal, next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Some time ago, the African swine fever spread very strongly and forcefully in Estonia, and Estonian hunters worked very closely with the Food and Veterinary Board and the Environmental Board to close the border on the African swine plague in Central Estonia. It's under control. It's not missing, but it's under control. But now confrontation or a different debate has arisen on whether and how much bait can be found in feeding places for feral pigs. Since such studies have not been carried out particularly for a wild boar, although for example we can already draw a full profile for a wolf, my question would be this. Do you think that Estonian hunters and their knowledge could be trusted that how much bait can be used in baits for feral pigs?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U17	That's a good question. This does not directly concern this law, but I believe that hunters are a group of people in Estonia who can very much be trusted. They have very direct contact and are quite responsible. So I'm sure they're one group to consider, whom you should consult, and whom you should trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U18	Kai Rimmel, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U19	Thank you! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! My question is whether, in the course of this draft, there was also talk in the Commission about the very dangerous listeria bacteria 868, which began to spread during the period of the previous rural ministers' rule, but which were still silent and silent, but which has also allegedly led to more deaths than the listeria bacteria currently on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U20	It is now a question, as a good friend of mine says, that anyone can say what comes to his mind, but a wise person thinks first and then says. I would behave in such a way that I would take the right not to answer. This is such a hot topic and it needs to be analysed very seriously. As an animal farmer myself, I know that nothing is as black and white as it goes. Is it at all the strain that is being brought out as a cause of death, or is it not the strain? When did we begin to identify these strains? There's a lot of foam twisted up here. I would leave this investigation to specialists, to veterinarians, and I would not interfere with this policy at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U21	Andrei Korobenik, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U22	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! It was a very thorough and interesting presentation, but I think we could go deep on the subject. You mentioned at the end of the report that quite a number of amendments were tabled. Among them were five corrections. Can you tell us what the mistakes were and a little bit of explaining what the amendments were that were taken into account in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U23	Yeah, I can. There were three amendments. In one of them, § 493 (6) is replaced by the words "official control'. The other one was a reference error. In the event of a dispute between the Food and Veterinary Office and the operator arising from the second expert opinion provided for in Article 35 of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, § 513 of the Food Act is supplemented by paragraph 41 by the following wording: Here the reference is simply changed, but the content is that the manufacturer has the right, at his own expense, to have samples taken in another accredited laboratory. The third is the amendment to the Veterinary Organisation Act. It's just written in an annex a little bit shorter and it says'set rate'. There was a slightly longer version before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U24	Thank you. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U25	Good manager! Good waitress! Did the Commission also mention recent raven raids on sheep herds? Would this bill also contribute to resolving this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U26	Thank you, Urmas, for the question. [[Laughing.]] It's gonna be really interesting here tonight. I can talk about it in the sense that I'm very closely connected to it, and I dare say here on the remote that we have a little bit out of control by the authorities. This particular case, I think you meant the case that was in Tartu County, was one that I once asked the Chancellor of Justice about. This process is actually ongoing. There are kids in this family, they're young people. I've known them since they started the farm. There was only one pile of rocks and old logs. So far, they have a very decent farm built up and three children, they're doing a very effective job. But now to this flock of sheep. This flock of sheep is not sicker than every other herd. Of the 90 lambs born in spring, the ravens pecked to death at 50, plus three or four, I can't tell you the old sheep by now. For some reason, the Tartu Environmental Board decided that the ravens should be kept so much that no authorisation was given to this farm. The real reason was sought, the veterinary office was sent there, all other inspectors were sent there in order not to give permission to shoot the ravens. Finally, when I spoke to the officer who was there, they shifted, there was one and the other, it was... Mr. Jürgen Ligi, I hate to disturb you too, but I don't have such a loud voice. I'm so sorry! Okay. Then this man from the Tartu Environment Department basically called me off for almost half an hour in such a way that I couldn't even introduce who I was. All this was already done through the Ministry of the Environment, through the Chancellor of Justice and through the Environmental Board. The center of gravity was directed there to make it clear to everyone that the farm was so stupid that they couldn't keep the sheep, that the sheep were so sick that they had to go to the ravens for bait. I did propose that a new industry should then be made to raise sheep as bait for ravens. They're a little offended about that. Well, maybe there was a reason. It has gone on, and what I'm saying is that, of course, ravens are very smart birds, they take the weaker animals, those who are left behind. They also spread disease when they peck. This picture is pretty creepy. They either peck the eye, make a hole in the side, pull out the rectum, or remove half the tongue. So this is a pretty unpleasant picture. If these officials had been wise officials, when they saw that the sheep were sick, they should have immediately approached the veterinary service, the sheep farmers' consuls, and this farm should have been given a treatment programme, but not from the beginning of August until the end of October or even now, only to tell how sick the sheep are and how stupid this farm is. I'll say it straight and in Estonian. The last time the inspections raided this farm suddenly, they were environmental officials from Tartu who called five minutes in advance to come, the family needed to see a doctor. But they didn't dare go. The hostess was already in shock, changed her clothes, and then, after she had heard for an hour and a half about how Denmark is, how Norway is, how it is here and there, she finally dared to ask if she should ask who they are. For several months they had not even taken the trouble to introduce themselves. So I'm not saying in this raven case that it's not the farm's fault that there were no weaker animals. I'm just saying that the officials' behaviour wasn't the most correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U27	Riho Breivel, next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U28	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable performer! I will then ask the substantive question that corresponds to this bill. § 16, border crossing point. It is noted here that the Food and Veterinary Office designates a border inspection post, and then paragraph 6 also states that the requirements for the content of the application for the designation of a border inspection post set out in paragraph 1 and the procedure for processing the application shall be laid down by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field. Does this mean that the actual area of work of the border inspection post is determined by the Minister for Rural Affairs or the Minister for the Interior? Doesn't it get messed up if it's not meant to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U29	Thank you for your question. Rather, the question is that so far there were border crossings and official inspection posts. The border inspection post was designated by the European Commission. The places of official control were determined by the Member State itself. It is now the case that these official controls are also confirmed by the European Commission. So this simply makes the procedure for determining the border crossing point 3 to 6 months longer. But there are eight border crossing points in Estonia and they have been there as long as I can remember. They haven't made any more, and they haven't taken one. So I don't see any problem here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U30	Honourable Riigikogu! In the meantime, an announcement. The Government of the Republic wishes to discuss the written request of 44 members of the Riigikogu in today's session "Publication of Confidence in Rural Affairs to Mart Järvik." Therefore, on the basis of § 56 (1) (2) and (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu has added this request to the agenda of today's sitting to the discussion. The debate will take place as a second item of the agenda, i.e. following the completion of the 90 discussions on the draft Act amending the Law on Animal Disease Control, the State Tax Act, the Feed Act, the Food Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and will be followed by a small break. So let's keep going. Now, Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm reading this bill, and here's chapter 61, feed control fee. It's all written up nicely for which the money will be taken, but I can't find it on the bill where the money numbers are on the table, what the feed surveillance fee is. It's for the company to comply with notification and permit obligations and all other obligations, but I don't see the numbers. Is there, however, somewhere in this bill the lines that this company is going to pay at one point, or does it come with a ministerial decree? And if this comes with a ministerial regulation, then it should definitely be this regulation here, too, before the third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U32	Thank you for your question. It will be included in the regulation as far as I can tell. But Hendrik Kuusk also published these numbers. If the law is adopted, the hourly rates for food monitoring will be EUR 23.84 from 2020 onwards, EUR 33.7 for feed supervision, EUR 14.9 for veterinary supervision. The hourly rate will be slightly higher because the hourly rate will also include laboratory tests, which have not been taken into account so far, but the number of operations per undertaking will be lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U33	Peter Ernits, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U34	Good manager! Good waitress! It is just such an important question that we cannot keep quiet because it concerns the veterinary service. As I recall, the Minister of Rural Affairs, Kruus, replaced a specialist with a veterinary higher education at that time with someone who does not know this field and who does not have the relevant education. Would this bill not have come if the competent person had run the job?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U35	Thank you, Peter, for the question. But I'd use my right not to answer. I'm not a fortune teller, I can't tell.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U36	Okay, no more questions. Thanks to the waitress! I was told that when I read the announcement, my microphone was switched off when the mysterious forces were acting. So I'm going to read it again according to the procedure. The Government of the Republic wishes to discuss the written request of 44 members of the Riigikogu in today's session "Publication of Confidence in Rural Affairs to Mart Järvik." Therefore, on the basis of § 56 (1) (2) and (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu has added this request to the agenda of today's sitting to the discussion. This will take place as a second item of the agenda, i.e. after the completion of the 90 discussions on the draft Act amending the Law on Animal Disease Control, the State Tax Act, the Feed Act, the Food Act and the Veterinary Organisation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. This will also be followed by a short break. So let us now continue the debate on bill 90 as prescribed by the letter. It is now possible to open negotiations. There is no wish to participate in the negotiations. We need to revise the amendments. The Committee on Rural Affairs has tabled three amendments to this draft. The first amendment is to supplement § 4 (25) of the draft, by changing the numbering of the following points, to read: '25) in paragraph 493 (6) the words 'over the exercise of official control' are replaced by 'official control'; This is the proposal of the Committee on Rural Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the lead committee. Would anyone like to put it to a vote? Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U37	Thank you. I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U38	Got it! The first amendment shall be put to the vote. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group to vote on the first 90 amendments to the draft. I do not read this amendment so as not to be wrong about numbers, but you do have the text. This proposal has been proposed by the Committee on Rural Affairs and is to be taken fully into account. Please take a stand and vote. There are 80 honourable members of the Riigikogu against 1. This amendment was supported and entered into the law. Mr. Stalnukhin wanted to say something in the meantime? No, I didn't. Then we'll move on. The second amendment is the same from the Committee on Rural Affairs. The commission is determined to take full account of this, and I will not read it out. My colleague said that it would be better not to read these points, § 51, paragraph 41 and so on, so that no dialect would go wrong anywhere, but you can read it in the text. Anyway, second suggestion. Would anyone like to vote on it? No, I don't. Then we go to the third amendment, and it is again the same wise proposal from the Committee on Rural Affairs, and the Commission, as the lead committee, has taken full account of it. Looks like no one wants a vote. This means that the second reading of draft 90 has been completed and this item has been exhausted. Now it's 20 minutes break. That's what the board decided.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U39	Break's over. Dear Riigikogu, we will address the request made by 44 members of the Riigikogu to express censure to the Minister of Rural Affairs Mart Järvik. I'll introduce the procedure. First the initiators of mistrust, speaking for up to 20 minutes, then the Minister's speech, as well as for up to 20 minutes, then any member of the Riigikogu can ask the minister up to two oral questions, the length of which is one minute, then I open negotiations, the representatives of the political groups get the floor (5 + 3 minutes), and then we go to the final vote. I ask first the representative of the initiators of mistrust here, Kaja Kallas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, If you think we really like to make these mistrust statements all the time, of course you're wrong. You're seriously wrong. I don't. I don't like the fact that there's always a mood in society for fighting, lying, and wrestling. What we do not like is that the scandals in the government undermine the credibility of democracy in people's eyes. What we do not like is that what is happening in the government is damaging Estonia's international reputation. But as our opposition, you can't just stand by when a member of the government takes a culture of government to such a low level, and when members of the government, in addition to attacking different social groups, crossing their limits of power, undermining the rule of law, start putting this country in their pockets for themselves and their friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! You realize yourself that it's a bad thing, why else would you try to take time and mislead the public by doing some sort of truth commission? Of course, conscientious state officials will put you in line with all the same facts that are already known. You know that the decision can only be one: the Minister for Rural Affairs Mart Järvik does not understand the responsibility attached to the Minister's office and is therefore not fit to hold the Minister's office. We agree today in this Chamber with the Fatherland and the Centre Party that Minister Järvik cannot continue, and we offer you the opportunity to resolve this upheaval. Although all these data have already been enlightened several times in the press, we will mention the facts that are known at this point. Firstly, the Minister for Rural Affairs Mart Järvik, through his intervention throughout the summer and autumn, has obstructed the resolution of the listeria scandal by attacking the Veterinary and Food Administration. We stress that the political attack on an independent agency responsible for food safety could have disastrous consequences for Estonian food exports. Especially in a situation where a bacterial strain related to Estonia has been detected outside our country. Minister Järvik has lied to the public on several occasions about the moment and how he learned about the listeria bacteria. Järvik said he heard about the spread of the listeria bacteria on the market while on strawberries, that was on July 18th, including. However, on 9 July, almost a week and a half earlier, Minister Järvik sent a letter to the VTA, which contained 19 very detailed questions, all of which were directly related to the spread of listeria bacteria. A number of questions directly concerned M.V.Wool. The minister lied to the public when he said, '13. On August August, if I remember correctly, we had a meeting at the house, and the reason for this was that M.V. Wool turned to the Ministry because he was not satisfied with what was done by the Veterinary and Food Administration (VTA). /... I heard the name of [Mati] Waterflow for the first time. ' This statement by Minister Järvik is another lie. The protocol shows that Minister Järvik attended a meeting two months earlier, which was held on 12 June in the premises of M.V.Wool, where he discussed more specifically the subject of listeria bacteria and where Mati Veteline spoke before him. It is clear that the Minister for Rural Affairs, Mart Järvik, does not perceive the Minister's word of weight and deliberately lies, not by accident, with dates. This is also confirmed by the fact that he did not wish to share protocols and correspondence which would reveal the exact dates. On 25 October, Minister Järvik decided not to respond in substance to a request for information sent to the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and his refusal was justified by an empty reply. All for the sake of hiding your misgivings. In addition to putting public health at risk, the Minister prevented justice and tried not to give the PRIA the right to represent the state in court. The Minister for Rural Affairs Mart Järvik did not sign the mandate so that the PRIA could stand as a victim in criminal proceedings for the use of public money. Acting in this way, the Minister and his advisor have acted against the public interest. The Minister for Rural Affairs Mart Järvik failed to understand his advisor's questionable advice, although the advisor drew attention to the conflict of interest from May to both the Committee on Rural Affairs, the Department of Rural Affairs and the PRIA. After the conflict of interest came to light, the Minister for Rural Affairs did not acknowledge what had happened, but began to lie again. He lied about hiring Urmas Arumäe as an advisor and about not signing the mandate. Minister for Rural Affairs Mart Järvik said: 'I therefore did not give a mandate because old things, the things of the previous minister, were wanted to follow. ' This is, unfortunately, another lie. The mandate that Mart Järvik signed was also from the time of the previous minister. This means that the motivation why he did not sign this particular mandate was quite different. These reasons are set out in yesterday's Postman. Namely, yesterday's Postimees wrote that both advisor Arumäe and the minister themselves and those people against whom the PRIA wishes to make a claim are friends from childhood. There are clear indications that the Minister for Rural Affairs Mart Järvik preferred private interests to the interests of the state. This could cause damage to the country up to EUR 1.1 million. Looking at how the government is making superhuman efforts to keep Minister Järvik in office, although his lies are many times worse than the lies of Secretary of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Kert Kingo, I would like to ask Mrs Kert Kingo: how do you feel about yourself in this light? You were quickly and surely sacrificed to the first lie, but Mart Järvik will be allowed to continue to lie and nothing will happen. Government members like to talk about work peace, but the word 'work peace' in their story suggests that ministers should be able to carry out their dark deeds in silence. Labour peace and a stable government are needed for the people of Estonia to be able to concentrate on their activities in peace, not to read about another embarrassing scandal caused by a member of the government every full month. In some ways, the circulation of members of the government and the lack of principle of the Prime Minister in resolving the matter of the Minister for Rural Affairs can be understood. But how can you, coalition ambassadors, today vote against the mistrust of the Minister, in other words, that you trust the Minister for Rural Affairs, and in ten days' time, when the State Secretary's committee has stated exactly the same facts that we have described at the moment, maybe in more detail, you must admit that your moral compass is out of place and you made the wrong decision? Your decision can no longer be changed, because this question will not come back to the Riigikogu. Then it is up to you that you approved all these actions and you trust the people who are trying to move our Estonia to their friends. If you want to stand up for the truth and resist lying, then here, in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, this is exactly the place where you can, today and now, put a stop to the lies of Minister Järvik. Please vote in favour of this motion of distrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U41	Thank you. Now I'm calling the minister of rural affairs, Mart Järvik. The speaking time is up to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U42	Hello, good Chairman of the Riigikogu and honourable members of the Riigikogu! I've gotten into this scandal about a fight in our house. It started because I wanted to launch a food safety audit and I announced it. From there, our cooperation with the Chancellor no longer worked out. From there, too, there was a counter-work against me, not only by him, but also by some of the officials, which have finally been amplified by the media to the point of view, and I might be honoured to receive a list of ministers who have been distrusted. That's all I'd like to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U43	Minister, there are a number of questions for you. First Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U44	Thank you. Mr. Järvik, this was a very interesting presentation. We found out you were being bullied, and you were being challenged. Until then, we knew such things that you have devoted your time to proving that you have done things because of forgetfulness, error and perhaps not remembering, and the other half has said that you are lying and chasing for your own good. In this great confrontation, the prize is actually very small. If you get established in your truth that you actually just don't know, you're wrong and you're being worked against, then it's not a very big cup. Why don't you resign yourself when you see that you're interfering with the government's work and the whole world is talking about you in this very pathetic situation? Why don't you pull yourself and the others out of the fire?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U45	Thank you for your question and for your position. I do not share this view, and I assure you that I have acted honestly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Järvik! As you know, you have been invited to come to the Special Committee on Corruption this morning to report precisely on the above-mentioned issues. You didn't show up because you said you didn't have time. Yet you are in this hall right now. Why do you think the Minister can interpret invitations to the Riigikogu selectively and according to his own discretion?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U47	Thank you. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U48	Thank you for your question. Two days earlier, an invitation was sent out to a government office meeting, and there was also one point for me. The government's office was held, so I got out of there because there's gonna be a motion of mistrust. The invitation to this committee came later. I can't miss the government office hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am pleased to note that our excellent press has exposed your suspected "corruption" 50 years ago or, let's say, the issue of conflict of interest when you were in the same class as one person. I believe that the press will continue this work, because it is also important to find out who you went out with in the apple race or who you pulled the girls with. But now I come to the beginning of my question. Honourable members of our Riigikogu, Taavi Rõivas and Jevgeni Ossinovski, have studied at the Honourable Tallinn Real School. This is certainly a good school, but what worries me is that a Nazi scientist like Alfred Rosenberg has also studied at this school. The problem now is that his spirit still affects today's members of the Riigikogu. Jevgeni Ossinovski was here a few years ago saying something like 'ekre-like human trash', which is undoubtedly, let's say, similar to the fundamentals of Nazi Ideology. What do we have to do with this school, break it down, or are there any other options?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U50	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U51	Thank you for an interesting question. Indeed, it is not the school's fault that certain students have studied there. In this case, there is no reason to dismantle the school either. This is really not appropriate. But I'll tell you what, the clues that were in the Postman yesterday don't work out. I know Rein Soosaart from high school, but I've never been his friend, I've met him a few times in my life. The fact that I'm his tribe also doesn't work out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U52	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U53	Thank you. Farmers in Saaremaa are very concerned about the lack of labour in this sector. They have repeatedly approached me as a member of the Riigikogu with the question of why it is not possible to employ enough workers from third countries in the agricultural sector. Therefore, after your visit to Saaremaa, I asked you here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, what concerns were the farmers addressing you with. Your answer: 'But when I went to Saaremaa, I really met several entrepreneurs and, interesting-interesting, the islanders did not raise this problem so that they would have a problem with the labour force. They had other concerns, but the labour problem never came to a conclusion in Saaremaa. " After you had given your answer, the people you met, and their answer to me was that you were told about the labour problems in the agricultural sector. Are you also of the opinion today that the labour problems in Saaremaa were not discussed with you as Minister of Agriculture at this meeting?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U54	Really, last time you had that question for me. I don't remember discussing this issue in Saaremaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U55	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U56	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, It is generally known that you wish to release your ministry's chancellor. It is less known that you have also initiated an amendment to the Ministry's Statute, you want to get rid of one deputy chancellor, the one who is responsible for food safety. This is the long-term official of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Vice Chancellor Toomas Kevvai. My question is, why are you distrusting one of your deputy chancellors, Toomas Kevvat?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U57	Here's how I'm gonna answer that question. By doing so, I will ensure that the work in the field of food safety in Estonia is perfect. There are problems now, as demonstrated by the food safety audit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U58	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U59	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Leaving aside all legal nuances and tricks, investigations by the Secretary of State and all other bureaucratic issues, I ask you very simply: do you feel that you have done everything right and that you should not even think that something has gone wrong both in hiring Arumäe as counsellor and in interfering with the activities of VTA and PRIA, but that all of this has been, in your opinion, ethical and consistent with your conscience?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U60	Thank you. I've always been ethical. The problem with Arumägi has been removed by the termination of the contract on the basis of which he gave me advice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U61	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U62	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! I will first address my colleague, Mr Grünthal. I'm a teacher at Tallinn Real School. It is extremely inappropriate and shameful to call for the destruction of a school where several hundred children are taught. Shame! But, Mr. Minister, I have a question for you. As you know, you have also had pictures of ministers during the occupation put on the wall of your ministry. Why have you abandoned the principle of the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia, and why have you had pictures of those ministers, some of whom were also involved in the repression of the Estonian rural people during Stalin?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U63	Thank you for your question. By having these pictures put back, I will ensure historical continuity. We cannot deny Soviet time. This Ministry has worked all the time to ensure that Estonian agriculture is at the top, even during the Soviet Union. I do not have any record of ministers working in this house that any of them have repressed anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U64	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U65	Good minister! I believe you will understand that this is not just about your advisor's so-called criminal activity, but about you. The Minister of Justice has given interviews to the press that he understands that when the Minister of Rural Affairs asked, perhaps you asked about the powers of the PRIA, this was after your advisor Arumäe or his law firm had represented certain private companies in the dispute with the PRIA and their lawyers had a defence record that the PRIA could not be in court without the minister's authority. Then you, by chance, went to the Minister of Justice to ask if the PRIA could still represent the Ministry of Rural Affairs without your authority. The Minister of Justice has understood that this was a concrete desire to prevent justice. There is also your signature, or rather your signature is not there, because you chose not to give this authorization. Isn't that deliberate interference with the trial, deliberate non-protection of the interests of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U66	Thank you for your question. I've given you plenty of explaining. PRIA does not need a mandate for the court, as confirmed by a letter from the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U67	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U68	Thank you. Honourable! Priit Sibul, the leader of your coalition partner's Fatherland Group, only a few days ago, describing the situation and recalling all the facts that have now sounded in this Chamber, said that for their party, for their group, such a political culture or approach to political culture is not appropriate and that the Minister for Rural Affairs should take political responsibility. Listening to your performances and answers both in this Chamber and in the media, it seems that you have a very perverse approach to political culture. Perhaps you share your vision of what you think political responsibility means in the context of political culture in a democratic country.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U69	Thank you for your question. Political responsibility means that the Minister acts by observing and following the law. I will try to do so in the future, and I say that I have done so in the past, too, on the basis of my better knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U70	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am speaking, based on my experience, because I have represented the country as head of the office, worked under four or five ministers and also asked for powers, but there has never been such a problem that the minister does not give the mandate. You said that the PRIA did not need a mandate, but the publicly available evidence shows that the question of these powers still arose in court proceedings. You didn't give the general mandate to the PRIA, but you could have solved it with a special mandate. In one criminal case, you gave a special mandate, but in a similar case, it's the Soosaar thing, you didn't give a special mandate. Why did you make the difference that in one case where the PRIA represented the country, you gave a special procedure mandate, but in another case you did not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U72	The question had already been sent to the Minister of Justice, and the answer came from there, that there was no need to give powers, that the PRIA had the right to go to court without authorisation, so I did not need to grant any additional powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U73	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U74	Thank you. I have a very brief question. Are you still of the opinion that Estonia is run by secret Jews and zionists?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U75	Thank you for your question. I've already answered that in the media.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U76	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U77	Thank you. I think, Minister, that it is polite to answer the questions of the ambassadors. Likewise, not only is it polite, but it is also your duty to come to the Commission when you are invited. The fact that you have a government hearing at the same time is not a serious excuse. But now my question. When did you get acquainted with the Ministry's internal rules on conflict of interest? Are and, if so, what improvements have you, as a minister, suggested to do in these rules to mitigate the risks of conflicts of interest, including in the case of ministerial advisers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U78	Thank you for your question. I have examined this document and have not proposed it for my part.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! When you said in your press release that the Food and Veterinary Office was using excessive force against a single operator to control everything to ensure human health, and you did not understand that this was a particularly difficult case, you questioned the generally accepted control mechanism in Europe as regards both sampling and processing. But in response to this established European rulebook, you have offered a new consumer safety check. It looked like it twice. The first time you said that you would eat this fish, i.e. that everyone could eat it, the whole Estonian people could eat it. The second time you said that nothing would happen unless the grapes were washed, that you were still alive. Do you realise that this level, which has been developed in the European Union in food safety, does not depend on the possible menu of the Minister, on what he consumes every day?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U80	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U81	Thank you. I will continue to eat fish and, as Minister of Food Safety, ensure compliance with food safety requirements. That is why I will continue this work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U82	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! The postman has done a phenomenal detective work and brought out important documents from the Võivula Elementary School. Namely, the head of the elementary school of Võivula is listed in decree No 1 of 1 September 1963 that you are among the students of this primary school. I ask you for an immediate answer to help Postman's reporters find more threads or clues. Tell me directly what your success in Victory's Elementary School was like.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U84	I guess I didn't have a problem with my studies, I got a lot of credit, but lately I haven't had those class certificates.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U85	Thank you. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Järvik! You were given the opportunity to stand up and defend yourself on this floor. The only thing you said was that you blamed the Ministry. How do you intend to continue working in this ministry? What are you doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U87	Thank you for your question. I really said that we did not work together, and that decisions have been made in order to make cooperation work in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U88	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U89	Good Minister Järvik! Cuckoo! [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Good Minister Järvik! I am the chairman of the Special Anti-Corruption Commission and I have been in correspondence with you. Unfortunately, I have not received a personal reply from you, I have communicated with you through your advisor. You offered a special committee meeting on 3 December instead of this morning. That's in three weeks, which is a remarkably long time. I hope that you will also find time for the special committee's extraordinary sitting in your busy schedule next week, for example on Thursday morning or Friday. There was a meeting of our committee today, and there were a lot of questions left in the air. I have a specific question. You are saying that you are not speaking about Mr Arumäe, because Mr Arumäe has quit his job. But you did hire Mr. Arumäe, in fact his office, to give you legal advice. This is a rather unusual solution, not to hire one person, but to hire an office. But that's it. As this could be a conflict of interest, it was discussed in the Committee on Rural Affairs on 7 May. Were you also informed in the ministry that there might be a conflict of interest? Did you and your closest colleagues have a conversation about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U90	This contract with Arumägi was prepared by the chancellor of our house; they exchanged letters and thoughts for several days. I signed this contract and Arumäe as a doctor of managerial science has given me good advice. As former Minister of Justice, who he once was, he also knows legislation very well. In this, too, he has advised me.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U91	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Järvik, I don't remember such an outstanding speech and both the eloquent minister and you in this Chamber today, but my career is also short, six years. The word "excellent" was, of course, in quotes, in reality it's embarrassing, in reality it's very embarrassing. For me, the new level is also, in the worst sense, that the Minister has clearly prevented the PRIA from defending the state's interests and it is not about change, it is about 1.1 million euros, so the Riigikogu must initiate a mistrust of this person, this minister, the minister would either resign himself or the Prime Minister would take that decision. Do you know anyone other than yourself who believes that VTA, PRIA, Chancellor, officials, your coalition associate Justice Minister, all of them are planning a conspiracy against you, all of them wrong, only you are right? Do you have any more duty and responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U93	I have a sense of duty and responsibility. I've found out if the PRIA needs this mandate or not. No, I'm fine. Thus, the recovery of this 1.2 million (I do not know these exact amounts) has not been prevented in any way in court.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U94	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U95	Thank you. An honest minister would sign this as a double guarantee. But my first question was whether you will be satisfied with this award, that you are just stupid, you don't remember, you don't know, you don't know good manners, and you can stand up to the end of the charges that you're lying and chasing for your own gain. The wording of my previous question was: why aren't you stepping down to save the government? I will now try again: why don't you step down to save the government and your friends from this embarrassing situation? And if you remain in office, will this prize satisfy you that you simply don't know, remember or know the good manners of government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U96	Thank you. The fact that I won't resign and my party is behind me is clear. The fact that I've behaved ethically, contrary to what the press claims to be foaming up at the beat is the truth. I will not resign, and that is the final position.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U97	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U98	Thank you, good speaker! Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with Liina Kersna's question. It is completely unprecedented how you have undertaken the prying of those civil servants who have not been prepared to respond without objections to your political pressure on matters whose legality is currently under question. This is political persecution in the most vicious way. I ask you to explain and answer the question whether it is really true that, late last night, you sent an amendment to your ministry's statute for urgent coordination, the content of which would have been the dismissal of one of the Deputy Chancellors and the urgent submission of this amendment to the government meeting today. Was that the plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U99	Thank you for your question. In order to ensure that we have food safety in the Ministry, that the area works well, these decisions have been made. The National Audit Office hinted at inconsistencies in its audit, and the audit of our house also gave reason for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U100	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U101	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I didn't know anything about ministerial work a year and a half ago either. During the first week, it was made clear to me that my employer was the Riigikogu. If the Riigikogu calls, I have to come, whatever I have planned by then. It is surprising to me that in six months no one has informed you, including Dr Arumäe or Counselor Ummelas, that your employer is this hall and that these are the invitations that must be answered at first speed. But I'm asking you what you think is the character of an officer who behaves well or has good qualities. I appreciate the honest officer, the one who stands up for his views. These views may not overlap with my views. We may have completely different ideas and goals at the meeting table. I've said yes, as an officer, you have to be honest. The fact that I'm being challenged is okay. But what do you think is the official's expected, correct behavior?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U102	Thank you very much. I will certainly take note of your position. An official must be one who complies with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U103	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm going to continue Keit Pentus-Rosimine. I understand that you are planning to amend the basic regulation of the Ministry of Rural Affairs as a matter of urgency and to submit this amendment to the government meeting as well. Did you present this amendment to the Statute to the government meeting today? When you tabled it, did it come on the agenda and what did the government think of it? This seems very strange, given that your advisor has been the subject of proceedings by the prosecutor's office and that the Secretary of State has initiated an investigation against you or set up a committee. Did the government really take this amendment to the Statute into discussion today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U105	Yeah, last night it got signed, and as the schedule of the document management system foresees, it's for next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U106	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U107	Good Chairman! Good minister! I come back to Mr Juske's question. You said that many of the agriculture ministers of the Estonian SSR promoted Estonian agriculture and that is why they should be in the picture gallery of the ministers of the Republic of Estonia. Is it logical that your colleague, Mart Helme, should have pictures of Boris Kum, Moskalenko and all the other Estonian SSR Ministers of Interior? They have certainly promoted the security of Estonia in some way. For example, Georg Abels, whose picture you put back on the wall and who was the commissar of agriculture in 1940-1945, personally participated in organising the deportation of 1941 as a member of the Central Committee. Artur Tupits, Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Estonia, who died in 1941 in Solikovsk, was also deported. So, yes, they've been involved in repression. My question is two. First of all, do you understand that the question is not whether they are nice people or not good people, but these Estonian SSR Ministers are not related to the statehood of the Republic of Estonia; they are not ministers of the Republic of Estonia? Do you understand that national continuity is important in Estonia? Put them on another wall somewhere! It doesn't make any sense to me!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U108	Thank you for your question. What I said was that we are talking about ensuring historical continuity. I myself have been against the Soviet regime through my life, have not taken one step forward since the child in October. Just because these pictures are on the wall and aren't taken off is because I don't like the things that happened in history, the book burns.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U109	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U110	Thank you. I am still addressing you on this question of authority. I myself have been a lawyer for 14 years, and your advisor, Urmas Arumäe, was also a lawyer. Lawyers work in the interests of their clients and find all kinds of tricks to protect the interests of their clients. If I were a minister, and if there was any doubt that the opposite party wanted to take advantage of the fact that there was no mandate, I would in any case, as a minister representing the public interest, give such a mandate, even if it was not actually necessary. Just so no one can get hold of this little legal nuance. As an attorney at Urmas Arumäe, I'm sure he can explain it to you. If he had represented the public interest, he should have also told you that, in any case, this mandate must be given. On what basis do you claim that you have not represented private interests in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U111	I have not represented private interests. Urmas Arumäe also helped to put together a letter to make sure that the mandate was not needed by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U112	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U113	Good manager! Mr. Järvik! Your answers here today to very thorough and meaningful questions are quite laconic. You have answered several questions that you have already answered this question in the past. One question you answered was that you have answered it in the media. I come to Riina Sikkut's observation that who is the employer of the Government of the Republic and where to report. You are here today to provide comprehensive and substantive explanations so that we here will make sure that you have been honest and that your actions have been transparent. We would like these answers and explanations. This is your chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U114	I've taken this opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U115	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U116	I see everything, no worries.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U117	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! I'm over here with the Social Democrats. If you'd look over here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U118	You have put the Prime Minister in an extremely difficult position, I think, he seems very weak in the current situation. The longer this scandal of yours lasts, which sooner or later will end with your resignation anyway, everyone will understand it, the weaker the Prime Minister looks. You have also put your coalition partners Fatherland and Centre Party in a difficult position. Why are you doing this? Why don't you step down?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U119	Thank you for your question. I hope, like you, this scandal ends.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U120	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U121	Thank you. Since I didn't get any more answers to my first question than your reference that you've already answered it in the media, I'll ask you again. In the media, you have responded on the subject that Estonia is run by secret Jews and zionists. You said you didn't see anything bad about sharing that kind of information, but from now on, you're gonna avoid making border posts. So you didn't really say what you thought about it. I ask again what you believe, whether Estonia is run by secret Jews and zionists or not. And since you wasted my first question unanswered, I'll ask you another question. Are the mommys gone now and the dads are home?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U122	I didn't hear the end now, but really, I answered the media like that, and I don't know whose interests they represent.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U123	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U124	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! I have a feeling that you do not know exactly what the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia is. Your good colleague, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, has not put pictures of the heads of government in Stenbock's house during the occupation. Your even better party partner, Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu, has not put pictures of the presidents of the Supreme Soviets during the occupation on the wall of the Riigikogu building. I feel strongly that you think that the legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia was also borne by the German and Soviet occupation powers. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U125	We are not talking about the continuity of the Republic of Estonia here; we are talking about the history of this house. Those pictures were on that wall earlier, and now they're back there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U126	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U127	Thank you. Honourable! When you answered one question earlier, you said that you were an ethical person and that you were acting in accordance with your ethical standards. Watching the media and listening to you here today, you can see that one lie is chasing another. You have now also admitted before us that you have lied to the media before when you mentioned who signed the councillor's contract. Today you said it was you, but before you said it was the chancellor. Your colleague from the party, Kert Kingo, resigned for about the same reason, became confused with the appointment of his adviser and the fact that he made misleading statements here before the Riigikogu, or lied. Your party's finance minister, Martin Helme, has said that lying to a politician is the most serious mistake. Does your ethics include the notion that lying is a big mistake?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U128	I'm starting with a hundred questions being asked at the airport, an attack on journalists. The answer that came didn't satisfy me either. I fixed it, I called the journalist who commented on it, an apology came up. That's exactly what happened. I only signed this agreement, it was drafted by Chancellor and Arumäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U129	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U130	Thank you. Monsieur mistrustful! In criminal proceedings, it is generally known that the accused has the right to remain silent. In politics, this is not the best recommendation. You have had the opportunity here today to provide adequate answers, reasoned and comprehensive answers to a very large number of questions. You haven't done that. So I ask you again what Mr Mihkelson asked for: is lying consistent with your values and, if not, why have you not resigned yet?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U131	Lying doesn't match my standards, but if the media puts together half-sisters and some random ideas under the name of lying, it's not wrong. Lying is a purposeful act, and that is not what I have done.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U132	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U133	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'll come back to the subject of the contract. You said that this contract was prepared by others, but you signed it. Did you understand what you signed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U134	Yeah, I got it. I read the contract.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U135	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Järvik! My first... Can I just...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U137	Thank you for looking at me! It really encourages me more. To the first question I asked you, I received the answer from which I read that basically all those ministerial staff who do not think the same way as you or have not done what you have wanted will be released. One of the biggest problems in Estonia today is how to find competent people for work, which requires a certain qualification. Don't you have any worries about what happens next? Do you find qualified people in these places?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U138	Well, I can look in the eye all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U139	I'm so used to looking at people. I even take into account the criticism that the questions are on my head, not on paper, and I also practice it, so that everything turns out so beautifully, politely and well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U140	I can see everyone from here, so stay calm. And I'll listen carefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U141	Thank you for your question. I look in the eye and I say no, I don't see a problem, and I'm not going to fire all the house staff, it's not even an option. The majority of officials do a good job.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U142	Thank you. A person who does not work day after day in this Chamber as a member of the Riigikogu does not know where a particular member of the Riigikogu sits. When the question is asked, the sound does not come from the direction from which the question is asked, but from the microphone. There is nothing to be surprised if the respondent does not immediately see the questioner and does not know which way the question comes from. But the next question is Aivar Sõerdi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, You have said at least three times in your answer to the questions that the PRIA does not need a mandate, a general mandate or a special mandate to represent the state in court. You have referred to the position of the Minister of Justice. However, if, in court proceedings, despite the position of the Minister of Justice, the question of the existence or absence of a mandate arises or is challenged, we do not know in advance the outcome of the court proceedings, but there may be a situation where the PRIA is unable to defend the interests of the State. That is why I ask again: has the lack of authority in court proceedings in the Soosaar case been raised as a topic or is it not? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U144	I don't know if it's raised.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U145	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U146	Thank you. I come back to the labour problems in the agricultural sector. Today's Postman writes that farmers can no longer cope without migrant workers. To our inquiry here in the Riigikogu, you replied that there were really no problems with the labour force in this sector, and you brought us different figures. But as life shows, the reality is quite different. Statistics from the Police and Border Guard Board show that in 10 months this year more than a third more migrant workers have worked in Estonia than a year ago. Most people come to work in construction, manufacturing and agriculture. Of course, says Kruusla, the owner of the Kaska-Luiga farm in Põlvamaa, he does not see an alternative to migrant labour at the moment. What's your position? Is there a problem with the labour force in the agricultural sector, or is it not? And should this be dealt with or shouldn't we?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U147	Thank you for your question. I don't mind using migrant workers here. I want this done legally so that all taxes are paid. I don't mind using migrant workers here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U148	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U149	Good manager! Ivar Vigla has such a good saying that bring any news, we'll get hard. It seems to me right now, as I am quite familiar with this area, that the respected opposition is also trying to make the soft thing hard here. But my question is that, as we know, VTA's listerial scandal has focused on only one company. This year a total of 245 listeria samples have been taken from the fish processing business. 245! And one plant, the M.V. Wool factory, 188, which makes 77% of it. There are about 100 fish processors in Estonia. My question to you is: is it normal for an agency that has to monitor our food safety to be focused on only or above all on one company, while the other 98 are left on the hangover and the listier boy flies freely everywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U150	Thank you for your question. I must stress once again that all I have done to better organise the work in this area is to ensure that food safety is guaranteed throughout Estonia. This must be ensured in the same way in the inspection of all producers. If there is any deviation, it is possible, according to the Food Law, to stop production quickly, to perform disinfection and to continue production after sampling. This has not been done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U151	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Järvik! I can assure you that it is not difficult for the Minister to assume political responsibility. It is difficult to sense that mistakes have been made in the administration. It is even more difficult when the minister himself has made mistakes and, as we see today, blames everyone else for it. I encourage you to take political responsibility. Do you agree with me? Are you ready for this state-manly act?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U153	Thanks for the suggestions. But I have a position in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U154	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U155	Thank you. I will continue on top of the question of the previous questioner, and I agree with Mr Kaljulai, who said that this process, which your entire home party, both coalition partners and the entire government, has been involved in, could clearly not end anything other than the fact that you are resigning at one point. But still thinking of the urgent amendment to the statute put on the government's agenda, with which you want to get rid of your uncomfortable high-ranking state official, deputy secretary, I ask you: what other plans of dismissal do you have in mind in the few weeks that remain? Who else has to be scared?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U156	Thank you for your question. I have not plucked up any officials so far, and I have done everything I can to ensure that food safety is guaranteed. These steps are all taken to ensure that food safety is guaranteed as well as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U157	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U158	Thank you. Dear Mart Järvik, I have now listened to your answers for quite a long time and to the discussion that is taking place in this Chamber, and I am not sure at all whether we are talking about a motion of mistrust. You have argued here that under no circumstances will you resign, that there is a party behind you, and so on. But there are very clear suspicions of falsehood in a motion of mistrust, you don't disprove them. There are even personal concerns about the PRIA, you don't disprove them. It seems to me that you are not really talking to your employer here, or your legislator, but you are putting pressure on your answers from Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Are you actually expecting Jüri Ratas to take political responsibility and then fire you or resign or do something?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U159	No, I certainly do not expect Jüri Ratas to take such steps, but I will say it again: I have done everything honestly so far and there is no profit in my activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U160	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U161	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Minister. We are hearing a condemnation from the Reform Party here, as if as your minister you were harassing your subordinates and forcing them to leave. But at the same time, we know that when the Reform Party was in power, it was very easy to replace the chancellor. Urmas Kruus fired his chancellor with his fingertips and no one thought there was anything strange, wrong or, even more so, criminal. Now I quote: 'Mural Minister Urmas Kruuse said yesterday in the briefing of the Riigikogu that he had an agreement with the current Chancellor of the Ministry, Ants Nood, that if Noot were to face a challenge outside the ministry's administration, the minister would not make any obstacles to it. 'This moment has now arrived,' explained Kruus' chancellor's departure. ' Do you see a certain hypocrisy in what is happening here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U162	Yeah, I see the hypocrisy of what happened here earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U163	Thank you. I see Urmas Kruus has a finger up. But there are questions now, and unfortunately there is no answer. Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U164	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! To my previous question, you responded beautifully to the laconically that a good official is the one who follows the law. I don't think a good official needs to be dismissed. If an official is dismissed, he is therefore a bad official. What law has Thomas Kevvai broken that you have signed the decision to dismiss him? What law has Illar Lemetti broken that you also want him released?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U165	Thank you for your question. I have not signed the decision to dismiss Thomas Kevvai. I have signed a decision amending the statute of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. With regard to Illar Lemetti, the decision is based on a lack of cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U166	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U167	Good mistrust! You lied to us again on the remote. My colleague Aivar Sõerd asked if you knew anything about the mandate in the Soosare case. You said you didn't know. I've got a time frame here. On 29 August, the PRIA requested a mandate to represent the State in the Soosa Islands case. On 3 September, the Ministry's Legal Department sent information to the PRIA that the Minister would not grant them a special mandate in a dispute with the Soosa Islands. Unexpectedly and accidentally a day later in this case, the representative of the economic operators sends a letter to the prosecutor's office in order not to continue the proceedings because the PRIA has not received a proxy from the Ministry. I don't know if you think we're stupid, or if you just don't realize that this isn't a coincidence when you gave a special mandate in one case and didn't give it in the next case. It's a slave to harm the state. Please respond specifically. Didn't you understand, or did you still have the intent not to represent the interests of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U168	I already answered that question. I have made sure that there is no need for a mandate, and this mandate is still not needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U169	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U170	Thank you. First of all, I come back to you when you mentioned that there were a lot of journalists at the airport, they asked you a lot of questions, and you called it attacking yourself. First of all, I very much hope that there are many members of the Riigikogu who ask you questions that you will not leave here saying that the Riigikogu also attacked you. Secondly, I call on you to respect our journalists. They're doing a great job. If you'd stopped and talked to them politely, I think it would have gone much better. But that's my question. I hear you have a large package of documents that you wanted to show to the Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister was not interested in these documents. As a member of the Riigikogu, who will soon have to vote on your mistrust, I would very much like to see these documents. Do you have them with you now? Can I read them right here? Would you be willing to hand them over to us here in the Riigikogu so that we can see what is in your document box before the vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U171	Thank you for your question. This package of documents is either on its way or sent to the Commission which was formed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U172	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U173	Thank you. Minister Järvik! You have responded here today that you could not go to the Truth Commission set up by Jüri Ratas because you had to attend the Government of the Republic hearing. My question is, did the Prime Minister not give you permission to miss a government hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U174	The agenda of the government meeting and its extraordinary start time at 8:15 p.m. revealed a few days earlier. I had promised that I would attend this session because my points were also at issue there. That's why I took part in the hearing. This invitation came later, it came on the agenda yesterday. I can't go against the government agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U175	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U176	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Please describe how you interact with the heads of your departments every day, every week or every month. I am particularly interested in communicating with the Director General of the Food and Veterinary Office. You have said that you have been kept in the information lock, while you have been with the Director-General in the Committee on Rural Affairs, and there has not been an information lock. I think it is important to add that Thomas Kevvai, of whom much has been discussed today, is working as Deputy Chancellor of Food Safety and Research and Development, perhaps in contact with the Food and Veterinary Office every day. But my question is: how do you communicate regularly with your sub-offices, how do you get information from them, whether you have weekly meetings, monthly meetings or any other form of work?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U177	Thank you. I don't have meetings with the sub-offices every week, but the information I was expecting as official information didn't get me any channels. That's why I sent letters. Today, for example, the Food and Veterinary Office will give me a memo on every major decision. Today, this cooperation has begun.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U178	Does Urmas Kruus have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U179	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Is it true that if a colleague of the Moonika Helme is lying about another member of the Riigikogu, then a member of the Riigikogu does not have the opportunity to comment or answer it and to disprove it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U180	You have a chance to disprove this lie. If it's a lie, it's definitely a lie. But not at the moment, because according to the Home and Working Procedures Act, when someone is mentioned in the report, it is possible to have a reply, but if there are answers to questions, unfortunately not. Next, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U181	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. When you answered Katri Raigi's first question, you did not answer one part of the question. I think that, since several questions were put together, this was not answered simply because I might not have remembered. The question is this: did the Ministerial officials inform you of a possible conflict of interest concerning the advisor, and if so, when?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U182	I don't remember that date. A letter came from the PRIA, where the PRIA director said he saw a conflict of interest. But by looking at the essence of the matter, I can say I didn't see the conflict.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U183	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U184	Good manager! Good minister! Grown people know it usually doesn't take two hours to get hard, but it's gonna take us here. Dear Kaja Kallas has spoken about how you will influence the head of the Food and Veterinary Office. But in the paper on Earth, Indrek Halliste said on November 8, 2019: 'Mart Järvik has not influenced our work. ' Here's my question: Do you agree with me now, dear Kaja Kallas, actually lied about you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U185	I really haven't influenced the officials, I'll stick to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U186	Kaja Kallas, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U187	I have a question. Since you said from the remote that we can't disprove these lies, which EKRE members are gonna mock about us, is that the way it's gonna be? I would like to say that, first of all, I have not said that he has influenced the driver, but I said that he has influenced the activities of the Food and Veterinary Office. But...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U188	This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U189	No. But the procedural question is, will it continue to be used now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U190	Next, please... Jürgen Ligi, do you have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two procedural questions. First of all, is there any prohibition in the Rules of Procedure that the President should be admonished to speak abusively, at least not allowed to do so again? The second question: is it really the case that lying is allowed from the remote unless it takes place during a speech, a report or a negotiation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U192	These were not procedural issues. But I'm still answering. Indeed, of course, every member of the Riigikogu must behave politely, respect his colleagues. There is no doubt about that. I hope every member of the Riigikogu understands this. Please, Valdo Randpere, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U193	It's a procedural question, you guessed it right. I have a serious procedural question. If the Riigikogu expresses a mistrust or prepares for the publication of a mistrust to a minister who represents a single party during the current process, would it not have occurred to the Riigikogu's board that perhaps someone who is not from the same party should chair the Riigikogu meeting at that moment? Someone who can at least seemingly maintain impartiality and not try to help? Are we mistrusting two people here at once?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U194	Thank you. It is not a procedural question either. Let's keep going. Please, Helle-Moonika Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U195	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We will continue to hear here the questions of the Reform Party that want to create a background, as if going to one school or living at the same geographical point in Estonia could be the basis for the future conflict of interest. We know that Illar Lemetti became Secretary General of the Ministry of Rural Affairs during his term as minister of Urmas Kruus. Now I draw attention to a certain sequence of events: Urmas Kruuse is from Elva, as well as Lemetti's parents' home in Elva, they are fellows of one neighborhood. Do you see the same conflict of interest that you are accused of?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U196	I can't answer that question. It's new information. But in any case, this is an exact comparison between me and Urmas Kruus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U197	Urmas Kruuse, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U198	Yes, I have a question about how long these procedural lies will be allowed to sound in this Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U199	Thank you. As you know very well, the procedures of the Riigikogu, as well as the procedures for publishing mistrust, have been established in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Today's call for censure is also dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure. Valdo Randpere, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U200	You guessed it right again. You usually have rotation times in place there when the chairman will change. What time are you leaving, and what time is someone else gonna be in your place? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U201	I understand very well that you simply want to stall time and turn this serious debate into a circus. I wouldn't. Yes, indeed, we will change the Presidency after a certain time, but we can do so both regularly and irregularly. Let's get on with the questions. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U202	Good manager! Mr. Minister! This is the third time the opposition has tried to pry the EKRE Minister. Here the same scheme begins to shine through: first, there are some false accusations that are unproven, then they are thrown into the air for the media, followed by media beats for a week, and then, of course, the Minister is expected to either resign himself or something else will happen. Maybe you're the kind of minister who's still standing up for justice to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U203	Thank you for your question. My position is, indeed, that I have come to the Ministry to stand up for the rural people. I will stand up for justice to the end, and I will try to disprove all lies.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U204	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U205	Thank you. Honourable! You have been asked complex questions here, and you have tried very simply to answer them. That's why I'm trying to make your life a little easier, and I want to get an answer in "yes" or "no." What you have done with your advisor, Urmas Arumäe, looks like an attempt to steal the state. Doesn't that worry you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U206	I didn't understand the question. Looks like...? [[???Hääled saalis: 'Riigivarguse katse.'???]] There's no attempted state theft, I can prove. [[Voices in the hall.]] I don't see any attempted state theft here. [[Noise in the hall.]] What are you asking me, I can't... Very strange.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U207	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U208	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Perhaps I am very late with my question and a small comment, but here in front of the delegates, I ask in the light of the fact that you did not appear this morning on the Commission: good Järvik, has it been explained to you in the group or elsewhere, who is your employer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U209	Thank you for your question. I've already answered that. I think that this committee also has some kind of advance notice, it is not 10 to 12 hours. I'm sure it was the afternoon when this message came to my attention, but the secretary knew my exact schedule earlier, and he answered earlier. I really couldn't change the decision that I was attending a government hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U210	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You probably met Jüri Ratas, head of the cabinet this morning. What suggestions did he give you knowing that this debate of mistrust would come here today? What counsel did he give you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U212	Thank you for your question. George Ratas didn't give me any advice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U213	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U214	Thank you. I come back to this question of authority. If the lawyer of the counterparty in his defence tactics is based on the fact that this claim cannot be made against them without the authorisation of the Minister, and it happens to be the same law firm that works for your advisor, maybe he is even one of the owners of this law firm, and they happen to be the clients whose interests he previously represented, and if it happens that the lawyer's defence policy of the counterparty is successful and this leaves 1.1 million countries without it, will you feel responsible for it? Are you prepared to take responsibility for the loss of 1.1 million for the Estonian state because you failed to sign one of the signatures on the mandate?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U215	I already answered that question. The absence of a mandate was confirmed by the reply of the Minister of Justice. That won't be necessary. The court can and can collect all the sums that are needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U216	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U217	I read here that the minister first refused to give a special mandate by the deadline, then the Soosa Islands in court said that without a mandate the PRIA should not represent the country, and then Järvik asked the Ministry of Justice whether to represent. So how do you feel about it now? Is that lying?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U218	This isn't lying. I sent a question to the Minister of Justice and waited for an answer. If I needed a warrant, I would have signed it. Since it was not needed, it was not necessary to sign it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U219	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U220	Thank you. Mr. Järvik! You answered Riina Sikkut's question, what do you expect from the officer? You expect the officer to comply with the law. In the context of the whole debate that we have been holding out here in the last few weeks, I have not seen any reproach that your chancellor or your deputy chancellor, who, as has now become clear, you would also like to dismiss, would not have complied with the law. If you assume that an official has to comply with the law, in what case have these officials not complied with the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U221	Thank you for your question. The Chancellor must cooperate with the Minister in his administration. If there is no cooperation, it is not possible to work together.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U222	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U223	Thank you. I've been in this hall for quite a while, and I could ask you five questions on the run. I'll start with the first one. I have a feeling you don't have a pretty clear understanding of time. You're playing time backwards. I repeat. The PRIA requested a mandate by 2 September. On 3 September, you announced that there would be no authorisation. On September 4, the complainant said that they could not do so. And on September 6th, I remind you, September 6th is after September 2nd, you will address the Ministry of Justice. Do you realize that the timeline is different when you keep playing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U224	This is no different, this timeline. When the first general mandate came, which should have had an unlimited and retroactive effect, I did not understand why I had to sign a mandate that was not limited to my appointment. I also made it clear that I am waiting for the reply of the Minister of Justice, and after that the decisions will come, if necessary, I will sign, if not, then I will not sign.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U225	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Järvik! I am still asking very specifically what prevented you from authorising the PRIA. Why did you need to ask the Minister of Justice if it was okay or not? What damage would you have caused to the Estonian state if you had given this mandate without addressing the Minister of Justice? Speaking of this background: I have met the Minister of Justice, who recalled your brief conversation at a government hearing, where your attitude was obviously that PRIA should not represent the country in court without your authority. Moreover, Mr Time (I am trying to be very honest and precise about him) said that this conversation may, of course, be interpreted differently by different parties, but if you look at your letter to the Minister for Justice, where everything is black in white, then it is obviously going through a hint or attitude, just as the PRIA should not represent the country in court without a mandate. Once again, what prevented you from giving authority to the PRIA when he asked for it? What damage would you have caused the Estonian state if you had given this mandate immediately?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U227	Once again, there has been no point in not giving a mandate. It didn't make any sense. I asked the Minister for Justice for an opinion, and that's what I got, and that was the assurance that there was no need for a mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U228	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U229	Thank you! I will continue on this subject, concerning your allegations that officials must cooperate with the Minister and that you will assess how well they comply with the law. Would you describe to us, then, what are your main objections to the chancellor and the deputy chancellor you want to fire? What did they not cooperate with you as Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U230	Thank you. I'm not gonna fire the deputy chancellor. I'm gonna change the statute. That's part of the answer. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The second part of the answer is that if I initiate a food safety audit and the Chancellor opposes the initiation of the audit was based on the decision of the National Audit Office, it is not a cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U231	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U232	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This speaker and this hall are spoken to by the people, and the people listen to it. It was very nice to hear you say that as Minister of Rural Affairs, you want to stand up for rural people. At the same time, every government minister also stands for taxpayers. I was surprised in one of your previous answers when you said that you did not know how many million it was or what it was when the PRIA wanted to go to court, that is, in the case of this mandate that you did not sign, you do not know what the amount was. A taxpayer cannot allow a situation such that his tax money is being abused and no one is signing a mandate. If you're saying that the PRIA was able to go to court without permission, then it wouldn't have been too bad for a double. How is it possible that you, as a minister, were not interested in what amount of money is going to the court to get the taxpayer's money back?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U233	Unfortunately, there was no mention of any sums or figures at that time. There was just some kind of number for a court decision that says no name or anything. I am still convinced that, afterwards, I will not give any authority for the work that others have done or for any time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U234	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U235	Thank you. I would first like to make a comment on one of the earlier comments. The Riigikogu represents the people. When the Riigikogu invites a representative of the government to come here, the representative of the government will change its agenda and come. That's what the Prime Minister promises. Secondly, you are saying that you failed to cooperate with your chancellor and your deputy chancellor and that they must rely on them to cooperate. Each official must first be governed by the law. If they observe that it may be an offence, then their duty to do so is to do so! It is also a matter of opposing the Minister. Thirdly, it seems to me that you do not understand that if you have a question as a minister, you have officials to ask. It's the same question as how much money we're talking about when you go to court. Are you practically working, or are you just sitting there?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U236	Thank you. I'm basically working. I asked the Minister of Justice if I had to give this mandate or not. Unfortunately, there is no invoice in the text of this mandate. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U237	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U238	Thank you. There are certainly dozens of other reasons to mistrust you today, but I will perhaps ask you for a very small detail, but for us in this Chamber, a very important detail. You were invited to the committee this morning. You had a government hearing, you couldn't make it. You said you couldn't come, and the next time you could come, it's December 3. On this basis, the opposition of the Riigikogu decided that it was clear that we are turning in a motion of censure. And then you were kind of there. Why didn't you come on December 3rd?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U239	My schedule envisaged a trip to Brussels for a meeting with European ministers, from there to Tbilisi, Georgia, I would not have been here all week, and the next week is a trip to Ukraine. [[A voice from the hall.]] Today I came because the Prime Minister said to go to the Riigikogu. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But he didn't say that this morning, he said that when our points were discussed, I had done my report.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U240	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U241	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister Järvik! I have an article by Postman because you have repeatedly mentioned here that the press interprets the truth. This article begins with these sentences: 'The scandal that led to the crisis in the government, the people involved, the Minister for Rural Affairs Mart Järvik, his former advisor Urmas Arumäe and the farmer Rein Soosaart who is arguing with the PRIA, are united by a well-hidden fact: they know each other practically all their lives. They were schoolmates and young people in primary classes. What is more: Soosaar, who received a rare favor from Järvik, is both family-related to the minister. " Is the press mistaken in this article, considering these links to be important, and does this fact play an important role in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U242	Thank you for your question. It doesn't have any role in me going to school with someone at any time. If I've only met this person a few times in my life and I've never been his friend, then it doesn't have any role.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U243	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U244	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You said you supported rural and agricultural farmers. As we know, one of Estonia's largest farmers' activities took place in 2013, it was meant for area payments and there were strawballs set on fire. The reason was that 25% of the land, said Jaan Sõra at the time, only Eurograss was grown, which means that the hay mill would not be collected, and this in turn meant that the agricultural support for food production would move to landowners. As we know, we also have very low land taxes. They wanted to leave this situation with a two-year transitional period, but you turned it back as one of your first steps when you became a minister. What was the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U245	The reason for this was that hundreds of people did not apply for an area payment because of the requirement to collect hexl. It has been cancelled and, according to the PRIA, these aid applicants have returned.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U246	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U247	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable performer! I come back to Mrs Hunter's question because you didn't answer it. You said you didn't give the mandate, because it's all like a history, and secondly, you don't know what kind of money we're talking about. As a minister, do you not consider it necessary to delve into the materials prescribed by your duties and which provide for action and did you not consider it necessary to ask what these amounts are? I'm amazed you basically didn't. Don't you consider such a thing necessary for other documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U248	Thank you for your question. If, in two years, no mandate had been requested, even though a court was seised, and now, suddenly, there was a retroactive need for authorisation, I did not agree to give it. If the answer had come from the Minister of Justice that a mandate was needed, I would certainly have started to examine each case separately what was behind it. If there is a return to the state, I will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U249	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U250	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Järvik! As we know, the position of minister is a political position in Estonia, while the positions of chancellors and other ministry officials are positions of specialists. You have highlighted several times today the reason why cooperation is not working out, arguing only that cooperation is not working out. It's kind of an impersonal expression. Maybe you can give an example of why this cooperation is not working out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U251	Thank you. I already answered that question once. Cooperation did not work out when I initiated a food safety audit on the basis of the decision of the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U252	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U253	Thank you. It is also the sacred duty of every minister in office to stand up for the prudent use of state property. If the state office suspects that someone has abused the support received for public money, and the state office wants to take legal steps to investigate this abuse, it is unthinkable that someone politician goes and tells them that no, you cannot do it. But that's exactly what you've done. You just said you wanted to start looking at each case separately. What exactly do you mean? Are you going to conduct a parallel legal investigation as a minister, a citizen, a politician, or are you going to examine each case individually from the point of view of whether there is someone familiar with the parties involved, a client of your advisor, or a tribe or relative? What do you mean, you're still investigating every case?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U254	Thank you. That was a nice question. But I said very clearly that, if the Minister of Justice had to answer that powers had to be given (the law does not really provide for their submission), it would have to be done to clarify everything in any case. I didn't need it in that case. I didn't have anything to do with that case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U255	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U256	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I come back to my previous question, to which I did not receive an exhaustive answer. It was a connection to Soosaar. You said that this particular description, or the one given to you in the press, has no role whatsoever in this particular case. I ask you whether the description, what I quoted to you earlier, was wrong, and if it is not wrong, what exactly is the family connection?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U257	I have no family connection with Soosaar, nor are we tribesmen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U258	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U259	Thanks again! Dear waitress, You said that you turned back this support for so-called 'Eurohaining' because applicants for area payments, i.e. landowners, did not come to apply for aid. But thank God it did not come because it is not normal for 25% of Estonia to receive the European Union's support for pure lawn mowing. The European Union's agricultural policy is designed to ensure that the people of Estonia and Europe are equipped with food, not to allow landowners to mow the lawn. Do you realise that you are not up to your responsibilities, that you cannot grasp the importance of your position, its objectives and the role of minister in the implementation of agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U260	Thank you for your question. This is where we understand things completely differently. The area payment shall be granted in order to ensure that the land is ready for cultivation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U261	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U262	Thank you. Mr Järvik! We've been here for one and a half hours and we've been asking questions, but we still can't get the answers well. For example, I still have no idea, for which you have had to wait for the imperative coercion or order of the Minister of Justice if the institution in your administration needs assistance in court and you have the opportunity to assist him. But now a little bit wider. I realized that when these scandals broke out, you had a meeting with the Prime Minister. It lasted about three hours. [[M. Järvik specifies.]] That's what the press said. I read about it there. After this meeting, the Prime Minister also stated in the press that he could not get answers to your questions. Are we going to miss these answers? I will also ask you once again whether you are waiting only for the imperative coercion to go to help the institution in your administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U263	Thanks for the questions. Got it. First thing: I haven't met the Prime Minister in three hours, this meeting lasted 20 minutes. I gave you all the answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U264	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U265	Thank you! I'm sorry, I don't know you. The only thing I know about you is that we're both from Pärnumaa. But after listening to your laconical, nonsayable answers, I want to ask you straight, like a man to a man. We're both older already. Are you sure and confident that you will be able to successfully manage this ministry, which is very necessary and very important for the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U266	Thank you for a good question. I'm pretty sure I can run this ministry well. I want this ministry to work directly for Estonian rural life.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U267	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U268	Thank you. Mr. Järvik! You have said that you have heard of the spread of listeria bacteria in the market on strawberries. You were on the market on 18 July. But in fact, on 9 July, you sent a very comprehensive letter containing a question to the VTA. Now I'm asking who sent this letter if anyone used your ID card. How did your signature get down on this letter a week and a half earlier when you later claim you didn't hear about it until 18 July? 9th and 18th of July there is still a pretty long gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U269	Thank you for your question. I have responded to this in the media as well as in other cases. One is public information, the other is official information. I didn't have any official information.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U270	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U271	Thank you. Unfortunately, you missed the opportunity to answer my first question, which I tried to come to your aid and asked only for a yes or no answer. Now I'm going to repeat the question. What you've arranged with your advisor, Arumäe, looks like an attempt to steal the state. Doesn't that worry you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U272	Doesn't that worry me? We haven't done any attempted state theft. We stand for the well-being of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U273	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U274	Good manager, thank you. Good mistrust! You can make such a brief conclusion that you have come to stay. Looking at your performance, I can tell you guys seem like a pretty patient guy. Can you assure us that you will continue and continue to explain this to the Prime Minister until he too understands that you must continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U275	Thank you for a good question. I'm sure I'll stand and answer. And come to stay, it's my opinion the Reform Party's old slogan.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U276	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U277	Thank you. By answering my previous question, as well as a number of other questions, you have tried to put your colleague's Justice Minister in a tank or somehow make him co-responsible. But I would point out that the Minister of Justice is not a government lawyer who has to give legal advice. For this purpose, each ministry has its own legal service, there are competent lawyers. At the very least, the State Chancellery and the Secretary of State will be able to fulfil the role of the Government's lawyer. So, in my opinion, it is completely inappropriate to make Raivo Aegis co-responsible here. But my question is completely different. Although we are, in essence, convinced that you have a reason today for about three resignations, it still happens that sometimes a person does not realize such a thing. In this case, there is a Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister will always have the opportunity either to advise you to resign or to dismiss you. If you have met the Prime Minister and talked to him, has he proposed that you consider resigning yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U278	Thank you. I've met the Prime Minister and considered different options. I'm not stepping down.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U279	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U280	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, have you actually understood the very serious problems associated with listeriosis? Have you learned anything from what's happened since summer? If so, what?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U281	Thank you for a good question. Listeriosis is dangerous and I demand full control of the VTA against this bacterium, in such cases, where possible, the suspension and disinfection of the plant's work, as prescribed by the Food Law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U282	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U283	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable waitress! We get the impression that there are two of us in this remote control today, Mart Järvik: on one side there is an idea, on the other side there is an act and it doesn't come together. So much has already been asked about the mandate that it is kind of embarrassing to talk about, and you do not feel the time line. You did not understand that this request for a term of office was very clearly linked to the preliminary procedure. But it is completely incomprehensible to me that your claim that you stand very clearly for food safety in Estonia, but if you sent a letter to the VTA with very thorough questions in July, a few weeks later it was discovered that it went to the wrong email address. How is it possible that this kind of thing ever happens in one ministry? Who sent out the letter that wrote it and signed it? If you were so worried, why didn't you care when the answer would come? The answers could have been on your desk as a minister in a few days. Who sent the letter, was it registered in document management, and how is it possible that the Ministry of Rural Affairs is sending the VTA letter to the wrong address?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U284	Thank you for your question. This letter was sent out by me. There was no scandal. I wanted concrete answers to get information because there were rumors. Unfortunately, it must have been some old address of your time that didn't have that part of the agri. I sent it to an e-mail, it's documentaryly verifiable, and when there was no answer, I made an inquiry and sent it back to the right address. Turns out it was my fault.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U285	Thank you. Our table really showed that Urmas Kruus had the fourth question, but the procedural questions do not count. That was his second question. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U286	Thank you, Mr President. Minister Järvik! You answered Taavi Rõivas's question that you and the Prime Minister considered a number of options. Did the Prime Minister propose to resign himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U287	He didn't deny me that opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U288	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister for Agriculture, has the Prime Minister proposed to you to resign?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U289	Andrus Seed, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U290	He hasn't proposed directly to me. We considered different ways forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U291	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U292	Thank you, good manager. Good mistrust! Why don't you enlighten the hall and the Estonian public, which, in the wording of the Prime Minister, didn't prohibit you from resigning? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U293	I don't know how to comment on the Prime Minister's story, I don't have any record of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U294	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U295	Thank you. Good mistrust, but maybe you'll describe what the options were, what you discussed with the Prime Minister for progress?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U296	We discussed the issues raised by the Prime Minister, which had been published in the press.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U297	There are no further questions for the Minister. Now I'm opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups from the platform may take part in the negotiations. 5 + 3 minutes. The first to be heard is the representative of the witnesses of mistrust. Please! Ivar Padar, huh?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U298	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have never been Minister for Rural Affairs, and I do not know exactly what the role of the Minister for Rural Affairs is or does not belong to. I've been Minister of Agriculture for a while. It is clear that, when it comes to the work of the Minister for Rural Affairs and his role, this matter can be discussed on several levels. When it comes to the level of substantive work, it is clear that there have been a number of serious differences of opinion, the Minister and I have broken up. It is normal in this respect that there is a minister who, when looking at agricultural policy, sees some development opportunities and is members of the Riigikogu who see other development opportunities. There has also been a discussion in this Chamber, which first came up in the spring, that was the issue of mowing and crushing, when today's minister actually expressed distrust for the former minister, Mr Tarmo Tammele, who had already agreed on a few years' notice with the agricultural organisations, whether or not anyone likes it or not, that at one point the threads should be collected from mowing and crushing. And then suddenly in the spring, in the middle of the application round, everything will be turned upside down, obviously creating instability in the agricultural sector. Or all this crap about the fuel used in agriculture, whether and how it is used. Or maybe the same labor thing. We know and understand that there is a sharp shortage of labour in the agricultural sector and that sensible solutions must be sought for it, and illegal solutions are not solutions. But also things where you can see what the Minister's role is. Let us look at the questions of the members of the Minister's own group. The Minister's role is certainly also to meet the members of the group, to clarify the circumstances and the way in which agricultural policy is taking place. But the questions that came from there today were clearly incompetent. That's what you say. Now on the substantive side of it. There is still a debate in politics, and all those aspects of which we have talked a great deal have come up here. We can look at them like they're in two blocks. One issue is all that concerns veterinary supervision. It's like no matter who's in the house of 39/41 on Broad Street, there's a problem with every minister. That's the problem, then, with mad cow disease, foot-and-mouth disease, swine plague, avian flu or anything. It is clear that there will always be operators who are more or less affected. The fact that these entrepreneurs go to the Minister and want to share their concerns is life. It is up to the Minister to look for better solutions. It is strange here why the Minister took the position, as we have all heard here, that he has known about the problem since August. Well, who needs this story? Is there an extension?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U299	Yes, please! Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U300	Okay, I'm not gonna talk about this vet anymore. The second thing is communication with the PRIA. What do we see? After all, we see the purest form of pressure on the official body, until the officials who have taken their oaths are in a situation of either subjecting themselves to political pressure or being honest officials in the Republic of Estonia. It's so here in black and white right now. And that's it. They're also talking about the exchange of information. I say what has not been said here that the Minister was before us in the Committee on Rural Affairs to talk about the listeria issue. There's protocol. The same minutes of the meeting of 7 October do not say anywhere, as if the Food and Veterinary Office were keeping the Minister in the press. On this point, I would like to ask what I did not ask whether the Minister still has regular meetings with the heads of his departments, which usually take place in the context of the Ministry of Rural Affairs at 11 a.m. on Monday. I don't know that. So with reference to all of this, and not more in wishing to explain this matter here, there has already been a lot of explaining - it is clear that there is no trust in the Minister. I believe, looking ahead, looking forward to the fact that in the next two years we will have the right difficult negotiations in the context of the European Union's budget, in the context of the European Union's common agricultural policy, that this negotiation must be conducted by very reliable people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U301	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Kaja Kallas. Does Jürgen Ligi have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U302	Yes, Mr President! This certainly is not very politically useful, but I would remind you that the sitting is coming to an end. If anyone wanted to, they could blow it by taking an extension. I just have a proposal that somebody arrange for this extension, and we can discuss it all the way through.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U303	Thank you. Where a request for censure is dealt with, the hearing shall continue for as long as the decision has been taken. So there's no need for an extension. It's under the law of the house and the rules of procedure. Please, Kaja Kallas, representative of the Reform Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U304	We spent hours here listening to Mr. Järvik. And what did we find out? We learned that the minister does not perceive who his employer is. His employer is actually the Riigikogu. He must come to the Riigikogu to answer, and he must also respond on this board. The answer is not if you say that I have already given it answers in the media. After all, he refers to this same media as being unreliable. If we ask in this Chamber, these answers should also be given here. It was also very surprising that Minister Järvik idealizes Soviet time and does not understand the legal continuity of the Estonian state; he does not understand what this means. I think it's a very dangerous sign. Especially for patriotic ambassadors, it could be a red light. The biggest complaint, which was also in our mistrust and which came out in this Chamber, is that Mr Järvik does not understand the difference between what it means to represent the public interest and what it means to represent the private interest. Yesterday, there was a long debate on the state budget in this Chamber. We know that the country has little money and that money doesn't come from any tree or anyone else. This money comes from the Estonian taxpayer. At other times, the country is being deceived and it is trying to recover subsidies without any grounds for doing so. It's still about living better for yourself to get rich with it. But who's gonna be poorer? The poorer one is the taxpayer. If the State wants to ask for these subsidies back, because there has been a fraud, if the State wants to go after taxpayers' money, so that it is used in the state budget for some other benefit, then it is the duty of the Minister to represent it in the public interest and sign it. If suspicions have been thrown into the air, and I assure you that lawyers are very good at finding these gaps, that this requirement cannot be made in the absence of a mandate, then the Minister, who is responsible, will sign it. I listened to the minister's answers here, and I had an unwitting question about what this minister's signature would cost. Why can't you just sign it? Estonians have a saying that double doesn't rumble. Give the signatures as much as it takes, as long as this claim can be filed, as long as you can defend the interests of the taxpayer correctly. At the same time, the minister has easily signed a letter containing 19 detailed questions of which he does not really know anything. Then he gave this signature quite easily without consulting the contents of the letter. In the light of these two scandals, the question arises as to which dark forces actually govern the Minister. Who's gonna tell him which document to sign and which one doesn't? Who directs what interests the Minister represents? We all had the opportunity to make sure, during these hours, that if the Minister was not distrusted today and the Minister did not resign himself, he confirmed here several times that he was here to stay, then Minister Järvik would be able to make a lot of trouble in his ministry. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U305	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U306	For example, here in the Chamber of Riigikogu, it became clear that Mr Järvik signed last night, even one could say that at night, a document would change the basic regulation of the Ministry of Rural Affairs so that the position of Deputy Chancellor of Food Safety would be abolished at all. He signed it at 9:21 last night and then tried to put it in today's government meeting to push it through quickly. It seems forcefully that Minister Järvik is trying to take advantage of this confusion in order to commit even more serious violations. Therefore, it is the only right solution to give the Minister distrust today and not to let him continue to harm the Estonian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U307	Thank you. It seems that the representatives of the other groups have no wish to speak. The Minister now has the opportunity to make a short speech if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U308	I don't have a wish.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-14_U309	Thank you. In that case, I will close the negotiations and we can go to the final vote. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, the Minister has been distrusted if the majority of the Riigikogu's membership is in favour of expressing censure. I am voting on the motion of censure on the Minister for Rural Affairs Mart Järvik. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of expressing censure, 51 against and no one abstained. The Riigikogu did not distrust the Minister of Rural Affairs Mart Järvik. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 1:01 p.m.
