ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U1	Hi! Happy noon, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start the briefing. Status check, please! There are 51 comms and no 50. Today, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Finance Martin Helme and Minister of Defence Jüri Luik participate in Question Time. The procedure is as always. I give the floor in accordance with the order and any member of the Riigikogu may also ask one question. The author of the main question is still entitled to an additional question, and a quick finger in the hall can still ask a question. There are two minutes for the question and three minutes for the ministers to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U2	Here we go to the first question that will be asked by a member of the Riigikogu, Taavi Rõivas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I would like to ask how we have now come to a situation where the medium-growing economy is, on average, in deficit with a quarter of a billion each year, and the government is talking about the need for a cut. And not only does the government speak of the fact that the promises made cannot be fulfilled at all. Let's look at a bit of history: in 2014-2016 the budget was in surplus with 300 million euros, but in 2017-2019 it was in deficit with 700 million. At the time, you said that we would introduce new budgetary rules, that the previous plus could be spent. Have I understood correctly that now you want to move on to the agreed 'take it, but put it back' sentence to take away this 'put it back' part and there is no need to compensate for the earlier deficit later?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. I will start by saying that, in any case, the government will continue to pursue a conservative fiscal policy with a structural balance at the heart of the budget. Your argument was that during a certain period the budget was in surplus with EUR 300 million, at a certain time there was a deficit. Well, I understand that you dimmed the plus exactly into that period when you were prime minister. Well, that's interesting, isn't it? But actually we see how many things were not done at that time, unsolved things, unanswered questions. The need for money was enormous. Let us take just a few examples! For example, the supplementary funding provided by the Health Insurance Fund to really reduce the number of treatment queues was very high. Secondly, the education sector, the salaries of teachers, as well as the salaries of cultural workers, also had a large deficit. There was really a need to help with the funding for the period 2016 to 2019. We take the municipalities: how much local authorities had asked to increase their income base, but this was not done. So without doing things was really very much and this was also the reason why this kind of focus was chosen. You asked about the budget rules. It is true that we have decided that the rules for drawing up the budget could be changed, based on annual accounting and then on annual balance. I understand your claim that the surplus was eaten and that it does not need to be put back. Well, you like to speak numbers, you took a look back, and I think it's very right to do that. But then let's go further, let's go to the beginning of this century! For example, the years 2000/2008, in principle each year, were in a negative structural position, except for the years 2000 and 2003. Year 2005: 1.8%, 2006: 3.3%, 2007: 4.2%, 2008 had a deficit of more than 5%: 5.1%. Let us move on from 2009 to 2016: basically, the situation was the same, and this deficit was not covered by the surplus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U5	Thank you. A further question, Taavi in the garment. How?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U6	I ask permission to ask a procedural question first.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U7	Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U8	My watch showed me there's one minute to ask. Let me get this straight. There's still two minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U9	Two minutes, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U10	Okay, that makes sense. Excuse me, would you please turn the time back on? Back to the budget deficit! You are right to bring the years 2014 to 2016 as a comparison. At the time, I did everything consciously. I can also confirm that it is possible to design the budget in such a way that it is either balanced or in surplus. I also consider it necessary to mention that the years 2000 to 2008 were not based on the calculation of the structural balance, but on the calculation of the nominal balance. At that time, economic growth, as well as the increase in budget volumes, was exceptionally rapid, and in some years even more than 20%. I do not think it is appropriate to apply a different methodology to those years afterwards. However, we can compare the years when I was Prime Minister and the budgets you have made for the three years. And this difference is indeed a billion: plus 300 million in 2014‐2016, minus 700 million in 2017 and 2019. I absolutely do not agree that things were not done at the time. On the contrary, I suspect that things will not be done now that you start cutting budgets. I would like to remind you that, in the case of a plus budget, the budget included Rail Baltic, the construction of the eastern border and the four lines of the Tartu highway up to Mäoni. But here's my question. You said you would continue to pursue a conservative fiscal policy. Well, I don't know if we understand anything differently then, but there were 357 million last year, which means that we were in conflict with both national rules and European Union rules. Let me get this straight. This is the budgetary policy that we are going to continue? And the final aspect of this issue. Let me quote you yourself! When you took office, you said this about the budget rules: 'If you ask whether we are going to loosen the fiscal policy of the country in any way, I do not know where you read it. That assumption is wrong. ' What has changed since then?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U11	Thank you. First of all, I will respond to some specific arguments. You said that during the 2014/2016 period Rail Baltic was funded, the eastern border was funded, the Tartu highway until Kosen was funded. I'm sorry, but you know very well that we are going from the back to the front of the highway of Tartu until the building of Kosen used the money on the main road and was taken off the gravel roads. This led to a very large deficit in the maintenance of small roads in local governments. That's right! Secondly, you say the eastern border was funded. I remember that it was, if I am not mistaken, three or four days at the end of February before the Riigikogu elections when the government decided to build and finance the eastern border. Why are you calling yourself evil here? You also know that the cost of the eastern border has increased twice, if not three times. The cost proposed at the time is not true. This cost was calculated on the basis of estimates where the natural environment was not considered at all, what the landscape is, what construction methodology needs to be used. So it seems to me that it was done in such a hurry. But then, in 2015, the date of the Riigikogu elections was at the door and a decision was needed in political terms. It's not a bad decision to build an eastern border. This is the right decision, and this work must go on. However, we see in the press how the National Audit Office says that other alternatives should also be taken into account. It is very likely that if we start declaring construction procurement, we will see that the eastern border will be even more expensive. We have really agreed that the completion of the eastern border could be discussed again in the office in the near future and see what opportunities the country actually has. Now, Rail Baltic funding. The construction of Rail Baltic lasts six or seven years, but there is one very important assumption: we must be able to achieve the same percentage of proportion in the next MFF as it has been so far. Well, in the order of magnitude, this proportion is 80:20. It is true that I have really been standing up for the balance of the budget all along. I remember when we were doing the state budget last autumn, there was a forecast and you know very well about your term of office that the forecasts are not made by the Prime Minister, but are obtained from top specialists from the Ministry of Finance, which showed that in the next four years the Estonian state budget is structurally balanced and in the last year, even a small surplus in 2022. New information came in early April this year. And that's why we've reached our current position.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U12	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! If you stall the eastern border for a few more years, the price might go up four or six times. So in that sense, there is no point in complaining that the price has become more expensive. The real economic situation is like this, and let us see how high the price increases have been. Obviously, we have different concepts of conservativeness. You are trying very hard to show that because you are not conservative in budgeting, people get a lot more services. However, looking at the order that needs to be made in the country, looking at political preferences, this means that it all exceeds the possibilities of the Estonian budget several times. I think it is particularly important that a small, open economy and a small country with a single internal market maintain budgetary discipline. Let me get this straight. Your new trick to alleviate budgetary discipline is the theory that we're gonna be down for another two years, but then in the third year we're gonna keep balance every year? It resembles the same trick that you did before the previous elections, talking about the 'average budget balance'. How can you explain to the Minister of Finance sitting next to you that we are actually pursuing a conservative fiscal policy? There is no point in giving the impression that if we let the budget into a deep minus, the long-term happiness for society as a whole is greater than going step by step, gradually towards a better future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U14	Thank you. First of all, there were now several questions in a few minutes. I'll start over. On 26 February 2015, the price of border construction was fixed at 79 million euros at the meeting of the Government of the Republic. This was on 26 February 2015, when the Riigikogu elections took place three or four days later. On 19 July 2018, the Government of the Republic meeting in the Cabinet took note that the cost of building the eastern border was EUR 250.3 million. For the first time, there was talk of an increase in the price, about 250 million last year at a meeting in the office of 5 July. And the reason why the price went from 79 million then to 250 million is because of what I said to Mr. Clothes. Once upon a time, the first decision was made in complete ignorance of the landscape, the soil, what construction is needed there. Now, your question of budgetary balance. We'll get to the balance one step at a time. Last year's deficit was 1.4%, it will decrease to 0.9% this year, next year to 0.4%, and then we will achieve balance. This step-by-step movement is better for the economy than a sharp cut in costs. Now, whether luck came to the yard or luck didn't come to the yard in the years 2016 to 2017. Well, what are we arguing about here? It is obvious that there were then certain specific areas that called for a very clear increase in funding. Take, for example, an increase in the last mile or the funding of a health insurance fund. I am very pleased that the principle of health insurance has been changed for people who are old-age pensioners and who are not working. You see, Mr Ossinovski is sitting there, he was then a minister and very strongly supported this idea, and I believe he will support it today. Then, Mr Kruuse, your area where you have been active for years: agriculture, rural life. You remember how you had to squirm to somehow get out of the trap of the Reform Party. It was a question of not increasing top-up subsidies. It had to be done. This was done immediately in 2017 and continued to be paid in 2018 and 2019. Well, that's the right move! In 2017, I thought it was about 20 million, a few hundred thousand under 20 million. Specific things that needed to be resolved! Not to mention, as I said to you, the rise in the pay of teachers and cultural workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U15	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U16	Jevgeni Ossinovski next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U17	Thank you. Good George! I completely agree with you that the previous government was much better than today. That is also my question. I've made budgets with you and without you, and frankly, I've never seen anything so embarrassing before. In funding research, the government whistles to a broad agreement, an increase in teachers' salaries I know you don't really think it's responsible. While you look at your right hand, you will see that Helme smiles next to you because he has never planned to fulfill the promises made to his electers, and now he explains in his parallel universe of New News that it is all the fault of soccer, uncompetant officials, rabid journalists, and George Soros. In this situation, I ask you, what about you, George? I'm gonna stand by and see that a raven hits your head every day with such a rush that it's too bad to watch. Can you answer me, "Can't you control these EKRE men or is there some other reason why you're doing this? '
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U18	Good Evgeny! I commend you first! I don't think your good sense of rhetoric and humor is lost in opposition either, and I'm glad of that. Now, when we come to your expressions, I understand you were talking about the number 0. But let's go forward like this step by step. First of all, the claim that the previous government was better than today. Time will discuss which government is better, it cannot be appreciated at the moment. Point 1. Point 2: Look, the budget we made was still the three of us together. If you remember, there were Social Democrats, there was the Fatherland, and there was the Centre Party. The figure for research funding of 1% has been, I think, the political priority of all government coalitions and is also the political priority of the previous coalition. We discussed the country's budgetary strategy for the last time this week on Monday. Before we finally decided on this, the position was as follows on Monday morning: if we do not consider the need for savings, the percentage of GDP going to R &amp; D will fall from 0.71% of current GDP to 0.53% by 2023. If we went to the savings points, we should have said we'd stick together somewhere else. The first decision the government made was that we do not save on research and development and defence costs. The second decision the government made was that we keep to a minimum the level that is now. And this morning, we received specified figures from the Ministry of Finance on the current level: this amount is EUR 152.4 million for the next four years. That doesn't mean we've given up that 1% somehow. I will also say that if we want to achieve this 1% this year and remain at the same level for the next four years, this would amount to EUR 591 million. To find the EUR 591 million that the government has now allocated instead of the EUR 152 million is, in principle, impossible. But if we come back to next year's budget in September, we will definitely look at it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U19	Thank you. More question, Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U20	Thank you. I understand you have to present the fact that you didn't decide to give science a deadly blow of the sword in an instant, a great victory. What other choice do you have? I get it, you just decided to let him stunt quietly. But in general, it is clear to you and you can see that, apart from the fact that you were able to fulfil the task assigned to you by law to adopt the state's budget strategy, you failed to do anything in terms of very important, priority and strategic investments for Estonia's future. That's why I asked you why you're doing this. You didn't answer that, but it's your choice. The second question is specific and very simple and concerns excise duties on alcohol. As expected, the news came that Latvia is also lowering this excise duty. Thus, both countries' fiscal revenues are decreasing, alcohol consumption is increasing in both countries, there is probably no significant change in border trade and health damage is increasing. I actually thought that would happen. And that has been one of the reasons why in the previous government we refrained from reversing: we knew that these risks would materialise. And the fact that this risk was not new was also known because the Ministry of Finance warned against it. The explanatory memorandum to your draft law on excise duty cuts also makes it clear that this will fail if Latvia also decides to lower the excise duty, which it is now doing. Consequently, I have two simple short questions. The first is this: didn't it surprise you that Latvia would reduce the excise duty? And secondly, how do you feel about taking responsibility for the extra alcohol deaths that are likely to occur now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U21	Thank you. First of all, point one: yes, I read that Latvia is considering the decision to make. I don't know that it's decided how many percent they're going to lower: how much they're going to lower on lean alcohol and how much they're going to lower on strong alcohol. I guess they're discussing it. It can also be said that yesterday there was news that Finnish brewers, the beer sector, have sent a similar letter to the partners in the current coalition negotiations in Finland. Whether they think of it or not, I don't have that information. I don't think I'd rather go, but I guess that's up to them. Now for that opinion I read in the media yesterday. And it's so easy to say to lower excise duty on alcohol. The Reform Party wants to lower the excise duty on lean alcohol by up to 33%, this bill is in the Riigikogu proceedings and 4% on strong alcohol. The government does not think it right that we should re-differentiate this rate of excise duty, it could still be of the same order of magnitude as 25%. But the opinion that alcohol excise duty is now being lowered and, as a result, in any field, such as education, teachers are not paid wages, or the increase in wages is not, of course, true. It's a provocation and a complete false story. In the context of the current RES, it is estimated that, if excise duty is reduced by 25%, there will be 12 million underbreaks by 2019 and 3 million overshoots every year for the next four years. So this decision is budget-neutral. But, as you know very well, you cannot say exactly on a cent or on a euro or on a million euros what it will be like by the end of the year. This is, of course, a very difficult task. And that is why we must be guided by the best available forecasts. I agree with you that, when it comes to alcohol policy, everything must be done to reduce accidents, to reduce accidents, to reduce accidents. But if we look at the results of raising excise duties on alcohol and, for example, the alcohol consumption in Estonia, as estimated by the Institute of Economics, 2017.2018, we see that someone is playing with this percentage. Someone says you see, a percentage is consumed more, but someone says that 2% is consumed less. In fact, we can see that consumption is more or less likely to remain at the same level. Many people say that people at home have very high levels of alcohol supply. The problem, of course, is the high level of border trade. As a result of this step, we hope that, on the one hand, trade on the Estonian-Latvian border will decrease and, on the other hand, consumption of our northern neighbours will increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U22	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U23	Thank you. I was left here to think about Mr Ossinovski's first question whether my eyes would also see the time when Mr Evgeni admits that the government before then was much better than the previous one. But we'll see! However, I come back to the issue of excise duty. The Reform Party had a very clear reason why we proposed a reduction in excise duty in this proportion. We relied on an analysis carried out by KPMG. This is undoubtedly an authoritative source. We did not rely, unlike the government, on a sense of gut or just some kind of political compromise that we would lower by x per cent. In my opinion, life has shown that excise policy must be based on analyses and not just on the desire to do something with the hurrah. If we had learned anything from excise increases in the last three years, then to a lesser extent, life could have taught us. As a whole, in my opinion, the reduction in excise duty is the right direction, especially if it is done in the right proportion. But he's in the right direction either way. But there's one thing I don't understand. Only yesterday, good Prime Minister, you were with the Prime Minister of Latvia and Finland in Brussels. Then why didn't you ask them to listen, fellas, do you have any plans to change excise duties? It is absolutely elementary that politics are being spoken to and different decisions are being coordinated with our neighbours. But I got a little bit in my ear that you accused me that the construction of the eastern border turned out to be more expensive during your reign. And now I understand that I also probably need to be blamed for the fact that your other government is now starting to cheapen the eastern border again, perhaps to build it cheaper. Do I remember wrong that the previous government actually put this EUR 79 million in the RES, and when I was a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Minister Anvelt came and proposed to reduce this amount twice? So, actually, in the current budget for 2019, there is twice as much money for the eastern border as the former government put there. What's the logic behind this? The eastern border turned out to be more expensive, but the funding was cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U24	Thank you for this question. The question about the eastern border should come as question 13 from Katri Raig, but of course I can answer it now. First of all, what did we rely on? We also relied on KPMG and, as far as I know, other analyses were carried out outside the Ministry of Finance, and, of course, we also relied on the analysis of the Ministry of Finance. It is no secret that the Reform Party wants the excise rates of lean and strong alcohol to be drastically different. And I don't blame you anymore for thinking that you've always thought so for some reason. Our analysis says that if you lower both 25%, then this could be emphasised: it can be the result that border trade is still significantly decreasing. And this is not only about alcohol purchases, but also about other goods, we could consider that some kind of consumption comes back to Estonia, that is, construction goods, that is, food goods, that is, fuel. In any case, it can be expected that tobacco purchases will be made again on a larger scale in Estonia. Here, too, Mr Ossinovski, from whom you, I understand, asked for a deed that perhaps the previous government was better. I do not come between the two members of the Riigikogu; you must explain for yourself which government was better and what worse. It's not very complicated, it's a choice between two, so try to figure out the pros and cons of this analysis. However, as Mr Ossinovski said, Latvia's behaviour, of course, clearly affects border trade between Estonia and Latvia. You can't deny that. You said that I was in Brussels with my colleagues yesterday and why I did not ask them for their plans. Still asked! And I said, in reply, that, as far as I know, this topic will be discussed in the negotiations on the Finnish coalition. If you only ask one coalition partner, it is quite difficult to say their final decision today. And I don't think I have to declare these things publicly to everyone here in front of the Riigikogu. They're still discussing what they're doing and what they're not doing. As regards the eastern border, on which you also asked, did you not include these millions in the country's budget strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U25	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U26	Next up is the chance to ask Heiki Kranich.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of Defense! Estonia's defence capabilities depend to a large extent on our western partners and good relations with them are probably essential to ensuring Estonia's defence capabilities. Regrettably, in the press of our Western partners, there have recently been quite a number of descriptions of how any representative of the coalition has behaved or said something in Estonia. You have called such things regrettable. Since you probably have had to explain this quite a lot and apologize to the traditions of this government, I will ask you what the current situation is. Has our cooperation with our Western partners been damaged in any way? Are there any problems, or have you been able to prevent problems with your explanations and excuses so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U28	Thank you for that question. I have indeed always said as I see things. And the reputation of national defence, including Estonia, is, of course, a very important part of Estonia's security. As far as specific defence relations are concerned with the various partners, no problems have arisen. I have on my desk a series of defence cooperation activities that will take place in the next three or four months, as well as everything that concerns the eFP battalion's presence here. In short, all cooperation in the field of security works well and I have a heart full of satisfaction. And you may also be satisfied that Estonia is well protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U29	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I'm not as optimistic as you are. That's because there are things in life and society that happen from inertia. You could say that the contracts you have on the table today are probably inertial and thanks to the actions of many previous governments. Actually, there's a whole new situation in the country. I am convinced that it will certainly have a consequence if people, partners, countries, social groups are to be insulted at length. How can you give certainty to the entire Estonian society by seeing what turbulence has arisen in the outside world and foreign policy, where nuances can actually decide at some point the actions of our potential partners or the long-term perspective? You have, in my opinion, confirmed several times in various debates and public appearances that a small Estonian state must build its defence on partnerships very clearly, that it is absolutely impossible to cope alone in this difficult world. The Minister of Finance, sitting next to you, has also made very sharp statements that have affected the various partners. How can you be so sure that our prospective defence cooperation is not in danger if we actually see the political forces in other countries wanting to change these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U31	Thank you. As I said, and as I have said before, maintaining the reputation of the Estonian state is a task for all of us. This applies to members of the government, it concerns members of the Riigikogu, all of us. And if we want to avoid problems in the future, we have to take this into account today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. But having communicated every day with the partners we are talking about, I can say that there are no problems that concern Estonia's security and cooperation with our allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U32	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U33	Thank you. When we agreed in Warsaw in 2016 that NATO allies are permanently side by side here in Estonia with our Defence Forces, there was a situation that several countries went to argue with each other that they could still come to Estonia. Estonia's reputation was so good and was grateful to the Estonian Defence Forces, Estonian soldiers for the fact that our men and women have stood side by side with allies in Afghanistan and many others. It was good to feel that, in order to protect Estonia, the great NATO Member States would argue with each other, who would come here first or who could be more here. Now we are talking at the level of the members of the government, of course, this complaint is not to you, Mr Minister for Defence, you are very balanced and you have expressed yourself very precisely in terms of foreign policy, constantly, that each country should be out on its own account and empty because of the cooperation that the European Union is ultimately a bad thing and everything bad comes from the countries and regimes of Western Europe. I don't know, I have this feeling that there might be a risk that some of our allies will wonder if Estonia is really worth protecting. I'm going to try to formulate it somehow for a question. I would, however, think positively and with a view to the future. Do you feel that something could change in the ministers' speeches if we want no ally ever to have any doubt that we are worth protecting?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U34	As regards the eFP battalion's arrival in Estonia, you are absolutely right. Indeed, the allies competed to come to Estonia. And it was very important for us and Britain that the British arrived here. Indeed, we are long-standing allies with them, and this ally relationship has been forged in battle. The interesting fact is that the same lieutenants and captains with whom our boys were communicating in Afghanistan at the time have now reached the highest positions in British Defence Commands. This, of course, only strengthens this relationship. Even now our fighters are in Kabul, which is also a unit under the command of the British Brigadier General. So bilateral military cooperation continues. As far as the unity of the European Union is concerned, I believe that a country which is as small as Estonia and which is located where Estonia is located must certainly maintain the unity of the European Union as its flag letter, or even more broadly European unity, if we are looking at what is happening in Britain. This is something that has taken us far, defended us greatly, and I believe that we will continue to do so. When we read the government coalition agreement, we do not see that there is anything to the contrary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U35	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U36	The next question is on Ivar Padar. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U37	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When it comes to the budgetary strategy and its implementation, it is certainly not possible to move away from planning a new multi-year financial period within the framework of the planned budgetary strategy. There has also been talk about achieving a structural balance. There has been talk of 2021, after which there will be an increase in receipts due to the increased use of euro funds. What is meant by this? Is it intended to launch a new period in 2021, or is it intended to increase the use of funds exponentially at the end of the old period? Clearly, when it comes to the beginning of a new period, it has never been possible for us or the other Member States of the European Union to launch it in the first year. As a rule, the first year is still a preparatory year. So some real income growth we can talk about in 2022, not sooner. What have you actually meant by this increased revenue for 2021?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U38	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased to be here in this new role in Riigikogu Question Time. Last four years, I was sitting on that side of the hall. I think it is great that Question Time has become longer and more meaningful and contributes to the political debate in Estonia. Of course, I very much like to look at this dynamic, which characterises the attitude of the Estonian public and opposition towards the budget plans and other activities of the new government for the first few weeks or months. At first we were talking about how we're going bankrupt right now because the new government is wasting money everywhere and everywhere. Now, very quickly, a completely different tone has been taken, and it is said that we are coners who don't give any money anywhere, and we're all gonna die from science, and I don't know who we're gonna do. In fact, neither is true. We are talking about spending savings of 3.2% next year, which is three times as much as the Ministry does not use its own budget each year. There's no collapse. And I am extremely pleased when all members of the government, including the Prime Minister, say that they are conservative, at least in fiscal policy. As far as your question is concerned, the answer is: everything in this choice. Yes, it has been calculated by using the money for the budget period ending, but also by using the money for the new budget period. In addition, the use of the performance reserve has been calculated. It is true that in the first and, in fact, in the second year of the EU budget period, the amounts that will be mobilised have been relatively small. The largest amount of money will be spent in the third, fourth, fifth year. But we have already implemented budget periods several times, we have learned from these experiences. We have a whole series of plans and projects that have not been realised in the past because there have been no resources. These projects are basically on the shelf right now. I agree that this is an ambitious objective, but I would remind you that, when we had the 2009 budget crisis, the then government, too, greatly improved the budgetary position with the accelerated and increased introduction of euro money. This is not something in Estonia that we have never done before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U39	Thank you. More question, Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U40	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. When it comes to the new financial period, we know only what the European Commission's proposal in 2018 would look like. Everything else will depend on what happens after 1 July when the new Parliament and the new Commission come together. But it is indisputable that we have more or less a picture of what this budget will be like, and we have, to a large extent, a picture of the Member States' co-financing obligations. When we are talking about our budgetary strategy, it is my question how much it took into account the potential needs of co-financing from 2021. For example, has it been taken into account that if the new rural development plan is to be kept at today's level, the budget commitments for the period are nearly EUR 400 million? Is that accounted for? Is it possible to see this in any row of the country's budget strategy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U41	Thank you. Basically, yes. At the same time, we know that the European Union budget will be drawn up for seven years, our budget strategy for four years. So when we talk about this 400 million, we only talk about about about half the time in the view of our budgetary process. But the answer is: yes, it has been taken into account that co-financing for the introduction of euro money will increase in the next period. And it's included in the budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U42	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! In your introduction, you indicated that you were sitting here in this room during the previous term. I remember that you were one of the greatest critics of the current Prime Minister, and precisely as regards his attitude towards the budget. Have I misunderstood that you have been very gentle? If so, your position may have forced you to do so. At the same time, I think you agree with me that if we are dealing with the budget, we cannot compare the budget 2009 when we were hit by the economic crisis and the budget 2019 when the economy is growing, when the situation has been fantastic for several years in a row. Yet we are forced to use the words 'negative', 'unbalanced','slashing'. Will the same policy continue during your reign when you are the Minister of Finance? Have you at last called on the ministries to come out of the euro money strategy, which should certainly be taken into account in the national budget strategy? We need to re-evaluate our actions and decide whether we will continue to do so, and if we continue to do so, how we will finance it. And, of course, account must also be taken of what the good colleague Ivari Padar has already said: that our co-financing for the various projects is increasing because our economy has done better.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U44	Thank you. I must say that I did not compare the situation in 2009. I took this as an example of our previous experience of faster introduction of euro money. It was just a very specific example. I think that we can talk about fantastic growth when growth exceeds 5%. This is not the case at the moment, growth has been close to 3% in the last few years and it is decreasing. This is predicted by all experts and said by all analyses. As far as gentleness or dislodgement is concerned, politics is dynamic. The attitude of the Reform Party towards our party has also changed dramatically over the last four months. But it is not something that we see for the first time in our lives that the parties that were critical of each other before the elections come to a table after the elections and agree on common things that they will do. It's a normal thing. The strategy for exiting euro money is in progress. Of course, all the ministries are working on it. It is clear that certain projects will end, some new things will come in their place. But I would point out that neither our money will nominally decrease in the next period. However, the "volume" is decreasing compared to GDP and the priorities in certain areas are changing. It needs to be dealt with and dealt with, it is ongoing work. But if you ask me if I've been able to catch up on the details in four weeks, I have to admit that the main steam has gone into the RES. However, in the course of this, I have also been confronted with this issue several times. I am not very worried or panicked about the fact that our ministries do not realise that the budget period for the European Union is coming to an end and the next is coming, and the next is much different than what we are going through right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U45	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The debate on this issue is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U46	The next question is Aivar Sõerd. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! If we dismantle this year's state budget, we will see that the preamble clearly states: the purpose of the budget is to remove Estonia from economic stagnation. Now that this budget has been in place for four or five months, when the budget strategy was renewed, your government ministers came out of the discussion rooms and said that the economy needed to be cooled down. I would say that it is necessary to cool down the practice of living over your previous government. But that's it. I want to ask what happened then, that such a sudden change of direction is on the agenda. Official explanations indicate that things got bad in the fourth quarter of the previous year or in the second half of the previous year. And the reason was the excise downfall, which was caused by border trade. Please explain this view that, due to the problem of border trade, we need to start cooling down the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U48	Good questioner! We had a very interesting debate about the same subject with Mr Kõivas and Mr Kruuse also joined this debate very well. I brought you some back-to-back examples. I'll explain it again, maybe you weren't in the hall before. We will take the 2005-2007 period in Estonian monetary policy. The structural position was 1.8% in 2005; 3% in 2006; 4.2% in 2007. I also made sure that I remember correctly who the Prime Minister was. I remember correctly, of course, Andrus Ansip was the Prime Minister. He was the Prime Minister for a long time, very good! I looked at who the Minister of Finance was at Aivar Sõerd. Well, you know what that means when the budget goes in a structural position at 3% and then goes up to 4.2% and then over 5.1%. Of course, it was a very clear signal, which indicates that the economy is overheating. And you have to learn from it. I'm not gonna say that in any way maliciously. Let's look at the later years: 2017 was 0.9%; 2018 was its 1.4%. This year, we are really trying to improve our position and achieve 0.9%, next year by 0.4%. I also said that, if a very sharp cut were to be made now, to try to achieve immediately, say, about 1% or 0.9%, it would be very difficult for the whole country to function and for the various sectors to do so. You're asking what happened. This need for austerity, the need for cutbacks, is based on the structural balance rule, which says that the deficit must be covered to the same extent as the budget surplus. The fiscal position for 2018 was worse than planned for a number of reasons, and this minus will be passed on to the next few years, and all together it will increase the need for cumulative cuts. Why is the situation worse than expected? One reason is that tax receipts did not improve. Economic growth in 2018 was expected, if I am not mistaken, to be 3.3% in size, but economic growth was higher, 3.8 to 3.9%. As your penguin author said: fantastic economic growth. I don't think it's fantastic, but okay. However, excise duties did not arrive in the expected order of magnitude, they were received less. In particular, excise duties are the cause, as I have already said. Secondly, a number of costs were higher than initially estimated, for example some social expenditure. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U49	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, an additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U50	Thank you. Prime Minister! In a way, it is good that you introduced the budget for 2005 and 2007. On the other hand, it's bad you didn't answer my question. And what is worse is that you continue to mislead data on public finances. Between 2005 and 2007, the budget was in surplus and I have an official Statistical Office document on this. The fact that you make an erroneous assessment using an ex post method that was not applied at the time is not relevant. But most importantly, in those years we collected reserves and finally collected viable reserves. If you are now saying that the surplus that was then was too small that it should have been larger, then you are saying that more reserves should have been collected in those years. But how do you have the nerve to complain to the government at the time, that reserves should have been collected more than you yourself, given the current good economic situation, have spent the reserves collected in the past? You have spent the unemployment fund's reserves to the minimum reserve and led to a large structural and nominal deficit in the budget. How dare you reproach a government that worked more than ten years ago to collect more reserves if you do not collect a cent in the reserves yourself?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U51	Thank you. I am pleased, Mr Aivar Sõerd, a honourable member of the Riigikogu, that you also have emotions within XIV. I think that makes our debate very interesting. Of course, I have to assess these years from the current situation, I cannot judge the years 2005-2007 from another situation. I congratulate you as the best finance minister in the world or the best European finance minister, and you know very well that reserves and public debt must always be viewed hand in hand. The fact that reserves were collected at the time, and the fact that we have still held public debt at or even below 8% in the last three years, are, in my opinion, both positive. At the same time, we also need to look at the market economy. And you also know very well when it is worth collecting reserves, when they generate interest income and when money actually loses its value. You, Mr. Aivar Sõerd, do not want to come here to say that the state should collect reserves, even though we are losing it because of the rise in interest and cost of living. At a time like this, it may still be better to pay back a certain part of the debt. When it comes to raising reserves, Estonian society is a very strong numeracy. I hope you read a very interesting article yesterday. If I am not mistaken, I think Mr. Harry Wind in Postimees presented a very interesting fiscal policy analysis, where he said that there are certain dogmas that Estonian society does not want to give up. One is the same number magic. On this point, I would like to say that perhaps we should really start considering very seriously the budgetary mechanisms used by other Member States of the European Union. We have been very firmly committed to the principle of the structural balance of the budget, and this cannot be criticised. This was also the case with the previous government. But I have given you specific reasons why our situation has changed. In April this year it became clear that the forecasts confirmed by Eesti Pank and the European Commission at the end of last year were not correct. This year, the situation is quite different. And the current government is now working to rebalance the budget in structural terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U52	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U53	In 2005-2007. Until then, a member of the government was also the ancestor of your current coalition partner, who used to say that I would be half as wise as my wife afterwards, but it would be good. There's a point in that saying back then. I, too, stress once again that the principle of structural balance was not based on the principle of nominal balance, either in Estonia or in the European Union, between 2005 and 2007. And I, too, think that it is completely unfounded, or even immoral, by letting the budget go down, to blame something for the former government that actually kept the budget in surplus. This is still a very different situation. But if you like to compare it with the past, I'll remind you once again that you can compare it with a closer past. Between 2014 and 2016, the budget was held in surplus. The exact same dogma was in effect. I read that Harry Wind article too. I do not understand: if Ansip is already guilty of everything, how could we keep the budget in surplus? But you see, we got it. And we got it very well! I understand that you, good Prime Minister, have spoken today about the fact that you intend to stand for a balanced budget in the future, and at the same time you are saying that a balanced budget is dogma. I would say that if a balanced budget and proper public finances are dogma, that is the only dogma we need, because the state's finances must be kept in order in any case. But my question is more prosaic. How is it that the Prime Minister, who started very vigorously a few years ago as an engine to prevent stagnation in order to make the economy go faster, but now, a few years later, economic growth is roughly the same as then, all this time it has been between 3 to 4%, has become a driver for economic growth? Why such a cardinal change of direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U54	Good Javier! I don't know, you make so many comparisons in this first hour! Once you refer to Ossinovski, and you want to know which was the better government, then you refer, as I understand it, to the former Chairman of the People's Union and quote him. Well, it's great when the Reform Party quotes the People's Union! And then you're referring to Ansip because of that article last night. I don't put pros or cons behind what you say. I have told you before and I will also say today: you are a good politician and you were certainly a good Prime Minister. In answer to your question, what happened then, I say that obviously this economic conjuncture that we had for years did not satisfy. It took a change, a new move, a fresh start. When we look at the growth figures for 2017 and 2018, we see that they were really good years for Eester. We can argue whether economic growth was beyond our capacity. Well, Mr Sõerd knows in his sleep whether the GDP gap was positive or negative, whether we used up our potential or if we were under it. But I think a change in society was actually needed. I am not just talking about changes in the economic recovery measures; I am also thinking about social, scientific and educational areas. If you are asking whether the government has now started to push for austerity policy, I think that the operating costs, operating grants, must be reviewed in the country. The last time I saw it was nine or ten years ago. When we say that it is important for all of us to have a state reform, to make the country more effective, this is a good moment to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U55	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U56	The next question is Riina Sikkut. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U57	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Popular decisions are always easy to make, but popular decisions are not always right to make. A statesman must have a backbone, an understanding of what is right and what is wrong. In fact, when you answered the Urmas Kruus question very nicely, you explained that top-up grants were actually very needed and that it was difficult to find money for health insurance and teachers' salaries, but it had to be done. It's been hard, but it's the right thing to do. Of course, obsessions aren't healthy in any way. There are good arguments: environment changes, circumstances change. But then you could share with the public what are the new arguments that make you change your mind. You yourself have said that alcohol is not a consumer product or a primary need, that excessive use of alcohol will destroy our families and rob people of their lives. You have also said that in order to reduce the harm associated with alcohol consumption, the increase in excise duty must be faster than the increase in wages, otherwise alcohol will become more and more accessible to people. You have also said that the calculation of tax losses due to border trade is theoretical and that the reduction of excise duties is hindered by the need to take account of the objective of fiscal integrity. What are the new strong arguments that make fiscal integrity no longer important? It is no longer important for alcohol excise duty to rise faster than wages. The social damage that alcohol causes is no longer important. Somehow, it is worth taking away this risk in a situation where there are so many variables in the form of the behaviour of the Finnish and Latvian countries and people that it is extremely difficult to reliably assess the impact of the reduction in excise duty. I very much doubt that the risks we take can be repaid, no matter what other countries do. So what are the new arguments that have changed your mind about alcohol excise policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U58	Thank you. I certainly agree with the introduction to your question, which concerns public health and that we must all do our utmost to reduce the harm caused by alcohol, whether it be deaths or other tragic accidents, including traffic, fires in homes. You asked what made the government decide that we could lower both lean and strong alcohol excise duty by 25%. I remember the various accounts we've been making over the last three years that we've been asking the Treasury Department for. They concerned the impact of the reduction in excise duties on the state budget and on border trade. There have been different calculations. It has been suggested that this means minus 30 million, more cons have been offered, and there have also been forecasts that if this fall were made as such, it would still have a major impact on border trade, and then this step could be budget-neutral. I believe that much has been said about these forecasts in Estonian society in recent months, which is good on the one hand. At the same time, we can see that forecasts can also change drastically in one quarter. I am not happy that the picture that was at the end of 2018 and the picture that was in April 2019 differ financially from 1 billion, even more. And in the explanations I'm giving today, I'm also relying on the Ministry of Finance. I think this is a pretty good lesson for all of us on how to see even better changes in the economy. The previous government of alcohol duty actually raised quite a bit, and so did the former government. It is clear that the forecast was not very precise. But those decisions were made by politicians. At the moment, there has been this change that we will see that if we bring excise duties down to 25%, this is a budgetary neutral step. On the other hand, we see that the increase in alcohol duty has not specifically shown that Estonian people consume less alcohol. However, in terms of the economy and the state budget, the impact is very likely to have been zero or loss.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U59	Next Riina Sikkut, please, an additional question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U60	That answer didn't convince me. If we have a budget-neutral step to cut excise duty and we collect 230 million both at current rates and at future rates, why make alcohol cheaper? But that's it. I think you actually know what's right. The question is how to share this right knowledge on this issue and on other issues. Last week, Mart Helme in this very hall, answering Helmen Küti's question, confirmed that the support paid to carers for caring for the care of a person with a deep disability will rise to a minimum wage, which will be increased in cooperation with the local government. In reply to Katri Raig's question about the salaries of policemen and rescuers, he said that he could not give the exact number, because it will be said later that Helme lied, but a 20-30% raise will definitely come. Mart Helme also said here last week that Tanel Kiik is wrong when he claims that there will be no extraordinary pension rise. Of course there will be. Now it's been a week. We do not read in the paper about raising the pay of policemen or rescuers, about increasing the support of carers to the minimum wage, or about the extraordinary rise in pension. We read that science doesn't get any extra money. What's changed this week? Yes, the RES discussions have taken place, but in fact, the situation is the same as last week. How can the members of the government now bring everyone to this picture of reality, make them listen to arguments, explain what and why it is possible, what and why it is right? Do you see that you should be the leader in this role?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U61	Thank you. Good Riina! Let's get started. First of all, you said the last answer wouldn't satisfy you. We know that, unfortunately, border trade tends to grow. True, there has been less of this in recent years, but for the Estonian economy this has meant a huge downside. I have never said in the previous coalition that border trade is not an important aspect. I have said that public health is more important. And I'm gonna say it today. Unfortunately, we see that the public health objective, which we have actually borne in our hearts, has not been achieved for one reason or another or for a third reason. Maybe the tendency is starting to move that way, but there's not a very big change. On the other hand, given the interests of the economy, I know that certain business umbrella organisations, as well as some large companies, are of the opinion that the Estonian economy would benefit if excise duties on alcohol fell. Is that gonna happen? It is currently estimated that this is a budgetary neutral decision. Is that really how it's gonna go? It's hard to say today. I wouldn't give three drops of blood to confirm that. But let's come to the things you say have changed in a week. As a former minister, you know very well what a state budget means, what a state budget strategy means. A week ago, this document was processed and the decision has now been taken. The strategy has changed. What has changed is that we have found an increase of EUR 152 million in research and development. And I also said that this amount was still to be explained this morning, yesterday we talked about 142-143 million. It has also changed that we have said to the elderly that if there is indexation of pensions next year and the average old-age pension is very likely to be about EUR 517, that means that the tax-free minimum of EUR 500 will no longer be covered. We have decided that we will add EUR 50 to older people, so that the average old-age pension will also be out of income tax in 2020. Of the rising salaries, so many have tried to increase the salaries of police and rescue officers, people working in social welfare, certainly teachers and cultural staff with higher education in recent years. Next year, we will not see any wage increases according to the country's budgetary strategy. It is not possible for the country to raise these salaries, but I also do not see the possibility that we are going to cut wages in these areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U62	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! In fact, there is still confusion about the relationship between health and alcohol in this nation. As the leader of the previous government, you also said that excise duty increases would be made in the interests of public health. I don't think you're quite sincere about that. I really don't think you understood that if alcohol duty is increased by 70% in one year, as was the case with beer, then what does it mean? This was certainly foreseen, and the predictions that came out of this hall were 99% realised. South Estonians have suffered the most damage: on the one hand, the closure of the country shops, on the other hand, the purchase of alcohol supplies at home. Predicting consumer behaviour is probably somewhat easier on certain issues. It seems to me that we underestimated experts who possess information about consumer behaviour, such as price sensitivity, shopping preferences, etc. Today you say again that health is important, but you act completely the opposite. The concern that has arisen in society is actually linked to the credibility of the government. This also applies to the science agreement. If these signatures had not been given so ceremonially before the elections, and if you personally had not signed them, then society would probably not have reacted so sensitively at the moment, there would have been more understanding. You guys are complaining that they've made some decisions before the election, but how can you be taken seriously as Prime Minister when your signature is no longer valid? You're trying to make it clear to us that if we don't give more money, there's going to be a reduction. We're not talking about any extra money here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U64	Thank you. So let's come to research and development. I still believe that the contribution of the Estonian public sector to research and development and innovation must be 1% of GDP. We have to move towards it. I'm not denying that signature or principle. It has to be said that all political parties have signed it, except for one party that is in this Chamber today. Of course you understand that you are very comfortable with this question, but I admit to asking the right question. The price of these signatures over the next four years, taking into account this year as well, is, as I noted in replying to the previous questioner, in the order of 590 million. As a result of the spring forecast, we basically need to save hundreds of millions and make changes to the budget. The country currently does not have this capacity of 590 million. I also said that we basically added three areas of money to the country's budget strategy. These are Estonia's defence, a defence area where we do not reduce costs, do not make savings and we still keep this figure above 2%. Is that 2,15% or 2,17%? I had a meeting with the NATO Secretary General the day before yesterday. NATO's head office has some data, we have other data, but that percentage is 2.15 or 2.17, and that's good. On the other hand, we decided that we would not reduce R &amp; D funding. But it meant finding extra money: as I said, a total of EUR 152.4 million for the next four years. And the third fundamental decision was that we give pensioners, the elderly, an additional opportunity: the average old-age pension is not subject to income tax. It's not much help, but at least a little help. After all, we discussed quite a lot in the previous composition about the need to increase the tax-free minimum rate for working pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U65	Thank you. The debate on this issue is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U66	Next you can ask Erkki Keldo. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U67	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Help me explain the following case to my constituents in Jõgeva and Tartu County. The popular opinion and political culture in Estonia is that the Minister must set an example for all Estonian people, including officials in the area of his or her responsibility. On Sunday, 26 May, when the elections to the European Parliament were held, Tre Radio was broadcast live, during which the police detected an infringement of § 168 of the Penal Code, i.e. active electoral agitation. The infringement was committed by your government's Minister for the Interior, the Prime Minister's first replacement Mart Helme and Finance Minister Martin Helme. The procedure is in progress, but the police have already made arrangements to remove the broadcasts. As far as I know, neither minister regretted or apologized for breaking the Penal Code. My question to you is: as Prime Minister, how do you feel about your government's deliberate violation of the Penal Code by the Minister of the Interior, not regretting it and leading the agency that supervises the conduct of this procedure? Do you not see a direct conflict and a problem here when a ministerial authority has to deal with the Minister? And have you taken any measures to correct the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U68	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Erkki Keldo. I say hello to you for my part, we have not met you here in this form, and I wish you strength! Here's what I'm gonna say. Certainly everyone, including the Ministers of the Government of the Republic, must comply with the laws of the Republic of Estonia. That's point 1. Point 2: As far as I know, the police have started this case. Paragraph 168 of the Penal Code provides for a fine for illegal agitation, which is up to 100 fine units. The police have started the procedure and are subject to the relevant legislation of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U69	Erkki Keldo has an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U70	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I think it is more important than the police investigation that ministers set an example for their authorities. For example, in 2003, Minister of the Interior Ain Seppik resigned because he had taken part as a judge in the Soviet era in blaming some people. At the time, Prime Minister Siim Kallas found that it would be reasonable for the government to be credible and for good cooperation when the Minister resigned. The government has been active for a few weeks now, and there is more than one case involving the Minister of the Interior, for which you have had to apologise personally. And now it's a direct violation of the law. Do you not think it would be wise for the Minister of the Interior to resign and for the government to be able to proceed reasonably?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U71	Thank you. I'm a pretty young person, but I remember this 2003 case pretty well. I believe that you too will remember this very well if you so boldly bring it on the table now and compare it to this radio broadcast. As far as I know, these are completely different cases. That's point 1. Point 2 is that it was, as far as I know, the Minister of the Interior himself wishing to resign. Then there was an election, I guess I'm not so wrong, one month or two months. I don't think you can commit these cases. You're talking about a role model. The role model is important and I have confirmed that every citizen of Estonia, including a member of the Government of the Republic, must comply with the laws of the Republic of Estonia. You asked about the resignation of Secretary of the Interior, Mart Helme. As far as I know, the Reform Party, at least from the media, has read it, and I don't know how many days ago I've started a motion of distrust against him. I don't know if you've handed it over or if you're planning to give it. That's what the opposition has to do: break the coalition. So the Riigikogu can assess whether Mart Helme must resign or not to resign.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U72	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U73	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! I am of course of the opinion that the opposition's aim must not be to break up the government but to monitor its actions. It's too cynical for you to understand politics. But we really don't want you to read the paragraphs, comment on the question and the questioner, we want the answer. I'm gonna try and see if you can't comment on me and my question. The Minister of the Interior has more sins. When he replaced you at the press conference, he read a long threat to all witnesses about the sins of the previous Minister for IT and Foreign Trade and his case. As Minister of the Interior, acting Prime Minister, he threatened people in style that he had determined who those people were who dared to testify against his party partner, your minister. How do you assess this situation? I've also asked lawyers. If complaints were received, they would be clear offences. Another perp for the Minister of the Interior. In your case of domestic violence, how do you assess the threat of witnesses? There's always a drought of witnesses, and close people don't want to talk about it. Witnesses were threatened on your behalf. How do you rate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U74	Thank you. First of all, when it comes to domestic violence and also to close-up violence, the answer is clear: there must be zero tolerance in this respect. It is deplorable, whether it is physical or spiritual, in close association or domestic violence. You said that when we talk about domestic violence, it is difficult to find witnesses on one or the other or on the third occasion. Unfortunately, that is the case. This is also confirmed by police statistics: if there are such complex, difficult, tragic cases, then there is no need to admit for various reasons that are economic or otherwise. But the general principle is that if we have people in society who dare to testify, they must be recognised and praised, and in no way pushed away from one, another or third procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U75	Thank you. The debate on this issue is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U76	Let's go to the next question. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U77	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! You have entrusted the Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology with, among other things, the organisation of export development, the involvement of investments, as well as the representation of Estonia in the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union on foreign trade issues, the Competitiveness Council on space issues and the Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council on information technology and telecommunications issues. At the same time, a member of your office has announced in the press that he intends to go abroad as little as possible during his term of office, but if he really has to go, he will only speak Estonian there. Moreover, he failed to appear before the Riigikogu commission, although for this purpose he did not have to travel anywhere or speak in a foreign language. I'm sure you've met Minister Kingo. Please explain if he understands what position he has taken. Does he understand that ministerial office is accompanied by firm responsibilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U78	Thank you. Of course I've talked to him. And Kert Kingo fully understands this, understands his area of responsibility, understands how important it is to help Estonian entrepreneurs develop foreign trade, i.e. exports. This brings significant added value to the Estonian economy. We have had quite a long and, I would say, constructive conversations about information technology as well. And I think he senses that one of Estonia's largest crown jewels, I dare so to speak, must further develop our digital society and maintain the level achieved. This has been, in short, the content of our conversations. Your question had to do with why he hadn't planned to go abroad. I think we're talking about two foreign missions. I remember it was probably on his first or second working day, when I had a conversation with him, that there was a conference in Canada where Estonia should be present at ministerial level, and he said he was going there. Now, Japan, G20. This invitation has really come to the Minister of Information or IT. At the same time, I think that when Estonia is invited there, it is largely bowed down for what Estonia has done in the digital field over decades. So I wanted to go there as Prime Minister to represent the country. Yesterday, there was news that the Minister did not attend a meeting of the Council of the European Union. I asked why, and I received the answer, that it was because it was precisely that day that we made the country's budget strategy and he decided to stick to the budgetary strategy procedure. Now, this language issue, which has also been raised in society and which you also asked about. Europe and the rest of the world have many politicians who communicate with foreigners in their native language. They do it through an interpreter. There have also been such prime ministers among my fellow Members at the European Council, and there are also today. But that doesn't mean I want to say that language skills don't work. It's a good thing. It's a good thing. Above all, though, a person does his work with his heart and dedication.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U79	Thank you. A further question from Heljo Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U80	Thank you for your very specific answer. In any case, I congratulate you on going to the G20. But I will come back to what the Minister has said in the press and what the head of your office has answered him. Minister Kingo has said: 'I did not have to go there from the beginning, the Prime Minister had to go because the invitation had been sent a long time ago and it had to be announced very long ago who was going there. But I hadn't even been appointed Minister-designate yet, long ago approved Minister. " The head of your office confirmed that the decision on your participation in this event was only born on Sunday, which means that the minister was not telling the truth. Can you tell us a good reason to trust a minister who does not have the language skills necessary for his work, who does not want to make an effort to attract foreign investment into Estonia and who actually lies to the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U81	Thank you. I don't know where it comes from so easy to label with such a hand that the minister doesn't want to make an effort in the field of foreign trade or information technology in Estonia. I do not agree with your statement. I think he wants to make an effort, and very much. We work as hard as we can, as much as we have wisdom and knowledge. And we all have shortcomings. Speaking of language skills once more, in Estonian society, I believe that allergies have arisen. When we speak in Estonian abroad, they say, oh, how can it be, it's bad, it's bad. Of course, if you have very good language skills, be it French or English or German or Russian or any other language, it is nice to use it. However, while we are taking the European Union level, there we are based on the fact that everyone can speak in their own language. I was at the informal Council of the European Union yesterday. I know that many of my colleagues speak very good English, but they use their native language very often. For this reason, noting that a person can't do his job is not right. He is certainly not the first minister, nor the last minister, who does not have the level of English that could be expected, but that does not mean that he does not do his job with dedication. Now, if it's so important when this invitation came and to whom it came, yes, as far as I know, it's true that it came during the previous government. And when I was dealing with this issue, it seemed to me that it was a level where the Prime Minister could be represented. It happened that on the same Friday as I was going there, I actually had the opportunity to visit a Lithuanian fellow official. This visit had to be redesigned a little, and it worked. I have the opportunity to be in Lithuania on 6 June and 7 June to begin my journey to Japan.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U82	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I didn't understand if you and Minister Kingo had a serious conversation. One of the most wave-created facts was that the minister said that he did not plan to travel abroad, and if he does, he will only speak Estonian there. When you created this ministerial position in your government and were ready to sign it, did you imagine that this minister would not go abroad or go as little as possible? We remember Anne Sulling working on this subject. We saw him very rarely in Estonia, most of the time he was abroad. The way the Estonian state sold CO2 quotas at some time was also part of its work. Did you have a serious conversation with the Minister and explain to him again what was going on with this job?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U84	I said I've been talking to him, and this conversation was nice. He certainly understands what foreign trade and information technology are all about. As I said in reply to the previous question, Estonian society is immensely in numbers. I understand that it is now good to start counting in a year how much one minister went abroad, how much the other went abroad and how much the third went abroad. Well, it doesn't make an assessment of the outcome of someone's work, sometimes it's not right. Of course, given that the Ministry of Foreign Trade also has an EAS, which is strongly oriented towards foreign markets, it is important for the Minister to go abroad. And go there not alone, but with business delegations. Efforts must be made to open doors so that we can move international cooperation forward, especially at private level. Certainly, there is an important role here for him and the Prime Minister in good cooperation with some visits must certainly be made together.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U85	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U86	Let's go to the next question. It's presented by Andres Sutt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I will tell you right away that the question contains some numbers, but there is certainly no magic there. You have said that the government agreed at the debate on the country's budgetary strategy that an extraordinary pension increase would come. How much and when pensions will be raised will now depend on making the second pillar optional. Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik said yesterday in 'AK' that it would be good, first, if the money invested in the pension system remained in the pension system and, secondly, that raising the state pension, as I understand it, from the lower payments of the second pillar would increase the pension for both current and future pensioners. The first one, I understand, the second one, puzzles me. I'll explain. As a financial person, I find it very difficult to understand how money can be raised from one pocket to another. If, at present, 16% of labour taxes go to the first pillar and 4% to the second pillar for those who have joined the second pillar, then 16 plus 4 is 20. If no further payments were made to the second pillar, then 20 plus 0 is still 20. This would therefore mean that the money for an extraordinary pension increase would be found in the pockets of future pensioners by raising money in the pockets of current pensioners. Do you consider this fair, and how do you explain this to both current and future pensioners?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U88	Thank you, Mr. Sutt. It's my pleasure to have a debate with you here for the first time. Good luck to you too! We have indeed said that reforming the second pillar is one of the priorities of the government. There's work going on for this. This is an extremely important reform, all aspects of which and the time framework need a very thorough analysis. The Government's Action Programme foresees that the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, will prepare an analysis and proposals for the reform of the second pillar of pension. I hope that these proposals will be finalised at the end of this summer or in the autumn. On this basis, discussions on the reform of the second pension pillar will continue in the government office. If money is released during the implementation of this reform, the government coalition has indeed agreed that it would be one possible source of cover for the extraordinary increase in pension for current pensioners. I would also like to point out that the normal rise in pensions will certainly continue in the coming years. The average old-age pension for the first pillar of a 44-year-old is projected to rise by 115 euros or 24% in four years, reaching 598 euros in 2023. As I have already said, we have decided to increase the tax-free minimum for pensioners by EUR 50 per month. Now that we look at the productivity of the second pillar on the one hand and the administrative costs of the second pillar on the other, it is clear that this system needs reform. In my opinion, this has not been called into question by insurance companies who have said that better means of earning should be sought for those who have joined the second pillar. I very much hope that making the second pillar optional will also ensure that businesses offering the second pillar work harder to ensure that the financing of their customers is as productive and of high value as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U89	Andres Sutt, an additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U90	Thank you. Certainly, better returns and lower charges are very sensible things. And in order to reduce fees, the law has actually been passed, and it will be in force since autumn. At the same time, I cannot find the link between better returns and lower charges, and more money will move from the second pillar to the first pillar. I'll give you a few more numbers. In 2018, 310 million euros were received in the second pillar, and this is a number that has passed through the media. If exceptionally increased pensions by 70 euros, it would cost 200 million more each year. Finding such a sum in very simple mathematics! just assume that 2/3 of those who joined the second pillar would give it up. How real do you think this is? And are you still not cheating on both current and future pensioners by allowing an extraordinary pension rise?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U91	Thank you. We really want the current pensioners to receive a higher pension and future pensioners to have certainty about their pensions. From a future point of view, as I said, it is important how people invest, how much productivity their investments have, whether their money is in the second pillar or in some investment account, or whether they have invested money in a third way. I fully agree that current pensioners need an extraordinary pension increase. You argued that the extraordinary increase in pensions of EUR 70 per month represents a cost of EUR 200 million in the state budget. I think it's almost the correct calculation. But no one has said since the agreement of the government coalition that the increase will be 70 euros in one or two years. We have said that this is an objective that we want to achieve in any case. And after the approval of the country's budgetary strategy, the assurance that an extraordinary pension increase will come is much greater, in my opinion. These financial opportunities can be reviewed in a few months, at the end of August or in September. As I told you, there have also been impact analyses carried out by both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs, how many people could be voluntarily leaving the second pension pillar, and how many people will continue to collect their savings there. So it has to wait, and then it can also be estimated what is actually the amount that we can allocate to pay for the extraordinary increase in pensions when we implement this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U92	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I'm a little cautious about your use of words. Speaking about the budgetary strategy, you also said that you have certain directions in place. But looking at the last few years, it doesn't seem that what you've planned will come true. In the case of pensioners, there must have been nine promises you made at some point. And now that you are talking about an extraordinary rise in pensions and a relaxation of the situation of working pensioners, there is only a course left. There will be no action. In my opinion, this is a somewhat dangerous trend that undermines the credibility of you and its government. At the same time, there is another problem related to the second pension pillar. When it comes to productivity, it is as if society is shown that productivity has been low. However, some experts say that in the start-up process at some point it might have been that it is now somewhat larger than it could be in the long run, depending on the size of the fund. But then there's another trend. The general logic says that if you have a more secure deposit, that means that both sides can be sure about making some kind of profit, then the longer-term return will be higher. But what happens now is that if a small group of people want to take their money out of the pillar and it is already referred to in the press to alleviate their concerns, then it can actually happen that the whole society and the whole economy are losing. The question is the money that comes to Estonia as a whole, or what fund managers can earn at all. Fund management gets jumpy enough. Can you tell me that's not gonna happen? Can you say that the dismantling of the pension fund is not intended to solve the budgetary balance problem? You've wasted too much money, and you don't have any more money to take. Tell me this isn't really the plan! We think you actually have a plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U94	Thank you. This country's budgetary strategy, which will be on the table at the Government's meeting tomorrow, does not provide for any cent or euro to be covered by the money that comes from making the second pillar optional. And this money cannot be accounted for because, as I said, the relevant impact analyses have not been carried out. You say you're upset by our directions. They don't mind me. I think it is good to give a concrete message that we are not reducing national defence spending, that we are helping the elderly by the fact that the average old-age pension is out of income tax. We have announced very specific directions. And these specific directions, of which I mentioned two, are also covered by funding in the current difficult fiscal policy situation. Now, all the dangers that you have pointed out, all of which could happen if the second pillar were to become voluntary, and the question of whether I can assure you today that it is certainly not going to happen, then I said that the ministries are just beginning to appreciate it. I don't have any specific bill to put on this table. Today is not the time to discuss this. But I very much hope that in the autumn we can discuss it in good cooperation with the Riigikogu. If there is a question of whether money should be released and, if so, whether it could be a source of cover for the extraordinary increase in pensions for current pensioners, I think that this could be seriously considered. If you are asking whether we have specifically taken these amounts into account for a country's budgetary strategy, the answer is no. It's not time for that yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U95	Thank you, I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U96	Next is the question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas on Helmen Hunt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U97	Mr. President! Prime Minister! Last week, more has been said about alcohol than about Estonian bread and food at all. It seems that Estonian Nokia is becoming alcohol, not education or science, the achievements of our scientists. And that's a shame. My question, however, is about good practice in dealing with drafts and the behaviour of the government in this light. Do you think that a draft has been passed on to the Riigikogu concerning the reduction of excise duties, drawn up and processed in accordance with the principles of good practice? Does the Riigikogu have enough time for good lawmaking?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U98	Thank you, good Helmen! I believe that when we talk about very good or good practice, there is always one component that reduces this goodness. It's a time deficit, it's a time resource. At the same time, I do not think that Estonian Nokia has become alcohol and alcohol excise duty. Of course, it is clear that on this subject, I dare say, even in three years, perhaps since 2015, when the first decisions to increase excise duty, which started to create border trade, were made enough talk. There have been many impact assessments that we have commissioned over the last two or two and a half years from the Ministry of Finance. And as has been said today, they have also been ordered from KPMG and, as far as I know, from other private sector companies. Does the Riigikogu have enough time? I understand that you may have this question more focused on me than on the representative of the coalition. The Prime Minister does not draw up a timetable for the Riigikogu. In general, I think that this is actually quite a subject of debate in society. I know that the largest opposition party The Reform Party has, in principle, given the same draft to the Riigikogu proceedings; they also want to reduce excise duties on alcohol. As I said at the beginning of Question Time, I don't think it's right that we re-create the differential between lean and strong alcohol excise duty. If this fall occurs, I think the excise duty should be reduced by the same percentage. And one of the principles of the current coalition has been that when we do, the impact of this step on the reduction of border trade must be assessed. It's appreciated. How the projections respond to reality can be seen when some time has passed - it is six months or a year. Some private companies have already said that they will change prices in their shops when the Riigikogu adopts this law on the morning of 1 July.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U99	Thank you. Additional question, Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U100	Thank you very much for your answer. I have not argued that alcohol is Estonian Nokia. I say that alcohol is becoming Estonian Nokia. You have quoted and presented various analyses. I very much hope that the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu will also include the Social Affairs Committee in the debate. And, of course, I asked you a question as head of the coalition to the Prime Minister. It is clear that the work of the Riigikogu is regulated by a completely different law. But I would also like you to quote in your answers the appeals of health professionals, which have already been communicated, as well as the studies that show that alcohol consumption has fallen among minors. I'm sure the price has been very important here. But my second question comes on the subject of Mart Helme being your acting minister last week, replacing you. He reported very good news regarding the caretakers and expressed his hope that solutions would certainly be found and their situation would be lighter. As Prime Minister, can you, at least with a few sentences, give a positive message to the caregivers of the country's budget strategy after the discussions have been concluded? What are they going to do next year? How can their lives become easier?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U101	Thank you very much for this question. First of all, the first part of the question, which once again concerned alcohol, the availability of alcohol. You pointed out in your question that the consumption of alcohol among young people has decreased. I think you have noted this, bearing in mind precisely this aspect of how important it is to maintain this trend. This consumption still needs to decrease. From a public health point of view, it is important what is the excise or price policy concerning alcohol, but also what we are doing to limit availability. What have we done to limit the availability of alcohol? More than ten years ago, we banned nocturnal sales, two or three years ago we demanded a sales restructuring from the shops. I think it's been the right way. It is not of minor importance that young people have been offered real alternatives, such as engaging in recreational education. I have spoken to the Minister for Social Affairs and asked them to offer more opportunities to limit the availability of alcohol for public health purposes in their ministry. I do not want to withdraw from the point of view that the price component is one measure. But there is always a question of whether we can keep the limit of reason in action. Perhaps we have overcome this and this has led to negative tendencies related to the Estonian economy, the Estonian business sector. Mr. Kruuse just said that you can see that a lot of border shops have been shut down. Now the second part of the question, which was linked to wage increases. You asked if we had any good messages in the social field, in informal care, if there had been more money found. You know very well that the financial situation in Estonia in December 2018 versus April 2019 has changed very strongly. It is now important to achieve a structural balance. But it is also important that people's wages are not cut in these areas, and that is what we have also decided that we will not do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U102	Thank you. The time for Question Time is up. I thank my fellow Members for their questions and thank the members of the government for their answer. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U103	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 7th working week session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. As an initiative, members of the Riigikogu will be able to hand over drafts and enquiries. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. We're about to go to the presence check. Please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U104	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to discuss the items on today's agenda. The first item is the re-negotiation of the Act amending the Law on the Organisation of the Defence Forces, initiated by the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities. Each member of the Riigikogu can ask a question during the proceedings and all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor during the negotiations. Okay. I request Hanno Pevkur, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as rapporteur!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U105	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, To get a little bit out of this bill that we have on the table, you have to start from the beginning. The reason why we are discussing this issue at all is that at the end of its working hours, the previous parliamentary assembly adopted the Act amending the Law on the Order of the Defence Forces and the President of the Republic decided not to declare it. To the reasons why the President of the Republic did this, I'll be there in a few moments. But since there is a new composition of the Riigikogu in this Chamber and there are quite a few new colleagues here, let me give you a brief overview of this law and its emergence. The security issues of the Defence Forces are not new in this Chamber, they have been discussed before. At the end of the previous term, this issue was discussed in the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, and on 18 December last year the Commission presented this draft law unanimously to the large Chamber of Parliament. Since Parliament was running out of time, it was very urgent to process this draft. Already on 16 January, the first reading was closed and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 30 January. The Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities initiated this draft, but since this topic mainly concerned the organisation of the Defence Forces, the Board of the Riigikogu then appointed the National Defence Commission as the leading committee. The Riigikogu discussed this draft, as I said, at first reading on 16 January and after that, the Committee on National Defence also asked for the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the draft. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs wrote its opinion. He discussed the draft quite thoroughly and concluded that it is certainly an area that needs to be regulated and that the security issues of the Defence Forces need to be further addressed. Now I quote from the letter from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: 'The conduct of background checks must also be purposeful and moderate. Compared to the current law as well as the draft law on prudential control developed by the Ministry of Justice, draft 783 SE's background checks as an internal control measure have been significantly extended. " The letter said that the draft gave the Defence Forces the right to use shadow data and conspiracy techniques and to follow the person in a covert manner in order to carry out a background check. We have raised some other issues in the previous composition of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that need to be resolved. We asked for a more precise definition of the rights of the Defence Forces, for example, in the discreet monitoring of persons, and to consider, among other things, the possibility of unambiguously stating that the right of surveillance does not cover the secret of the message of private individuals, the home and the privacy of the family and private life. During the procedure for this draft, a number of amendments were tabled between the first and second readings; they were voted in most of the drafts in this Chamber. One amendment that came up in relation to the original version of the draft was that private databases could also be consulted. This certainly was not what had been agreed in the Special Committee on Security Oversight. But despite all the disagreements that were in this Chamber also during the procedure of the draft, the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu adopted this draft and sent it to the President of the Republic for announcement. The President of the Republic, considering the draft, found: 'I am of the opinion that the law is contrary to § 13, 26, 33 and 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. 'As the President of the Republic's opinion is relatively short, allow me to read him to you here: 'At paragraph 29 of the Law 'Protection of the Defence Forces Act' is supplemented by § 541 of which paragraph 2 of which gives the Defence Forces the right to defend the security area of the Defence Forces in cases of urgency to identify and deter an increased threat, the possibility of discreetly verifying personal data from a database of the state, local government or any other legal person governed by public or private law, to use shadow data and conspiracy techniques and to follow the person in covert form. Pursuant to § 54 (1) of the Defence Forces Ordinance, the Defence Forces may temporarily define as a security area any territory to which they are entitled under the law, other legislation or contract if this is indispensable for the security of the Defence Forces or for the safety of third parties in connection with the performance of their duties. Although discreet surveillance of individuals is limited to 24 hours, I believe that granting such a right to the Defence Forces is disproportionate and seriously affects the fundamental rights of civilians in the security area. Hidden monitoring of persons may lead to the violation of the family and private life, the integrity of the home and the secret of the message provided for in §§ 26, 33 and 43 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The term 'hidden surveillance' is neither open nor limited in law as to what actions may be undertaken by the Defence Forces in carrying out this task. Insufficient regulation, which may result in the possibility of arbitrary state authority against a person, is contrary to the principle of legal clarity laid down in § 13 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. In the current judicial area, the legislator has provided legal means for the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police Department to identify and reject an increased threat in the Defence Forces' temporary security area. If the resources to carry out these tasks are insufficient for these agencies, the legislator will have to resolve these problems when dealing with the state budget. Giving additional rights to the Defence Forces as a covert pursuit cannot be an acceptable alternative. In view of the above, I consider it necessary to discuss and decide again in the Riigikogu and to bring it into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which was adopted on 20 February 2019. ' That was the reason the Head of State sent this draft back to this Parliament. The letter from the President of the Republic was discussed by the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu on Monday, 6 May. We were requested by representatives of the Commission's Ministry of the Interior, Defence Intelligence and the Ministry of Defence. During the Commission's debate, it became clear that yes, it would make sense for Parliament to discuss this law once again. In addition to what was mentioned in the President's letter, these reasons were also raised at the committee meeting, such as the question of hazard definition and the concept of threat. In the case of the concept of danger, can the severity of the threat contained in the Law Enforcement Act also be used in the area of security? Perhaps when we talk about an important threat, it may not be enough to allow the concept of a threat under law enforcement in the area of security to be used. Such questions arose at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which led to the consensus of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs not to support the adoption of this law, i.e. the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was to continue working with the law. It is certainly important that we also have the opportunity to hear the position of the National Defence Committee. It was known that the National Defence Committee felt that this law could be returned to the President unchanged. In this case, the constitutional review procedure before the Supreme Court is most likely to be pending. Now for a few nuances we should know. First, a purely procedural nuance. It is also important for members of the National Defence Committee to know that if the Supreme Court takes this subject to the proceedings at the request of the President of the Republic, we may eventually have a longer procedure. If we took this law back into procedure in Parliament today, we would correct it in June and September and then we would adopt it, it would perhaps be effective even in October. If we send it back to the President and the President takes it to constitutional review, then it may be quite certain that we will not have a solution before next year. So, on the basis of purely practical considerations, it would be reasonable for the Riigikogu to leave this law in the Riigikogu proceedings today and to deal quickly with the issues that the Head of State and also the committees have to deal with. During the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, both in the previous composition and in this composition, it has been found that these are quite similar issues which we believe still need to be resolved. But I certainly want to stress over the verbatim: no one in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs found that this issue does not have to be resolved. Yes, it does. The Defence Forces must have the opportunity to check their security area, the Defence Forces must have the opportunity to deal with the national defence tasks of Estonia, and there must be appropriate and appropriate measures to do so. It is rather a question of the scope of these measures. If you look at the Defence Forces Organisation Act in conjunction with the Security Authorities Act, you can see that the Security Authorities Act contains special measures that are very seriously damaging to people's fundamental rights, that is to say, data checks in different databases without informing people and, for example, discreetly monitoring. These rights have not been granted to the Defence Forces in the current Defence Forces Order Act, so that it is possible to follow a person secretly or to check data in private databases without informing a person. So these are completely new rights, a fundamental change of policy, which the Riigikogu will then give to the Defence Forces. It is certainly a place where it is up to us to see that there is a balance between the fundamental rights of the people and the security of the state. So the details we need to discuss are quite a few. As a result, the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to the large Chamber today is to not support the adoption of this law in its unchanged form, to work through these nuances as soon as possible and to return to this Chamber as soon as possible, so that this law can be adopted as amended, which, as I said, is certainly a faster solution than we are sending it back to the President of the Republic today. In that case, we will lose time because of the constitutional review procedure. I'm ready to answer questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U106	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Please tell me whether the Commission has discussed the fact that if this law is adopted in the Riigikogu as amended, but the President rejects it again, what are the legal conclusions in this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U108	Thank you for your question. We have not discussed in detail what will happen if, after the amendment, the law is not re-proclaimed by the President of the Republic. But today we know very precisely what the President of the Republic's concerns were under the Constitution. I very much hope that if we leave this law in the process, these concerns will be removed quite quickly. The answer to your question is very simple: in this case, the completely new law adopted by Kadriorg will arrive and, of course, the President of the Republic will have exactly the same opportunities and rights as any other bill. Ellik If the President of the Republic decides on a law passed by the Riigikogu whether he or she has been corrected, new or amended, whatever he or she has, the President of the Republic has exactly the same rights, he or she exercises the primary control of constitutionality and has the right to declare or, if necessary, send it back.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U109	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In the Commission, did you also discuss in more substance this statement concerning the President's decision on the performance of functions, the structural approach? In his decision, the President pointed out that the tasks should be carried out by the person who has them today, rather than structurally assigning additional tasks to the Defence Forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U111	Thank you. Indeed, it was briefly discussed that the President indicated that, if the problem is a resource shortage, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police Department should be given more resources. However, in the Commission's debate, we were based on the content of the draft and we tried to understand whether the draft or version of the law that had been adopted and which was sent back by the President of the Republic needed to be corrected and clarified. As I said, the Commission had representatives from both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs had the notion that yes should be corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U112	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Indeed, you began your presentation by saying that we are here today because the President of the Republic rejected this law. How much of the President's arguments were analysed in the Commission and how much do you agree with these President's arguments? The National Defence Committee, for example, found that some of the president's arguments were not quite precise. For example, the Defence Forces, or more specifically Defence Intelligence, do not want to invade people's homes or open people's letters or read SMS (I refer here to the secret of the message). Is the president infallible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U114	Thank you. The President of the Republic is obliged to evaluate the law adopted by the Riigikogu due to his office. In this case, he's done it. He has seen the danger that it might be a violation of the four sections of the Constitution. Whether this is the case, here, of course, the Supreme Court has final decision-making powers. Today, we know that the President of the Republic has approached us with a request to discuss this issue again, with a request to amend this law. I believe that if the President of the Republic and his team have highlighted these threats, it would be appropriate for the Riigikogu to take these arguments into account. If you ask whether one or the other argument is enduring, then it will not be confirmed until the law is in force. If you look at it purely theoretically, I can really draw very theoretical, very frightening scenarios from the law that was adopted in its previous composition. The assumption is, of course, that there is a control mechanism and that those people who make these decisions in this case are the Commander of the Defence Forces and the Head of the Intelligence Centre, must have a sufficiently clear understanding of national defence and state governance that they will not abuse power. But when you abuse power, it is possible, as I said purely theoretically, to make decisions that seriously offend people's fundamental rights. It was also perhaps one of the reasons why the President of the Republic came to the conclusion that this law should continue to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U115	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U116	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! Doesn't it seem to you, as it really seems to me, that if we look at these problematic places now and, to a large extent, they're getting together with the President's opinion, then the adoption of this bill, or this law at all, will make no sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U117	Thank you. No, it doesn't look like it. I am deeply convinced that these small improvements in detail can be done, perhaps even to make this law even stronger, precisely from the point of view of giving military intelligence the opportunities it needs to carry out its work, both in the security area and in the performance of other national defence tasks. This draft concerns not only the activities of the Defence Forces within the Estonian state, but also the activities of the Defence Forces outside Estonia. So I am therefore absolutely convinced that the so-called quick revision of this law can only make it better and that all the defence tasks that the Defence Forces need will be passed by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U118	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U119	Thank you. Good waitress! Indeed, in the course of the Commission's debate, we have come to the conclusion that there are more problems in the draft than only those concerns that the President pointed out. What do you think is the main change that must have been introduced so that the law can be approved by the President at the second attempt?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U120	Thank you. If you look at the president's reasoning, you can see that the main concern concerns are specific actions in the area of security. I dare say that they can be narrower or that 'narrower' is not even the right word to define more precisely. And the second question. If you remember, yesterday the Committee on Constitutional Affairs met with the President of the Republic and it was precisely the question of looking at private databases whether and to what extent this violates people's fundamental rights. I believe that these two issues are the most striking: the use of specific measures in the area of security and the right of the Defence Forces to consult private databases.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U121	Each member of the Riigikogu can ask each of the rapporteurs a question. No further questions. Thank you very much to the honourable waitress. Now I ask Ants Laaneots, a member of the Riigikogu, to act as rapporteur for the National Defence Committee. Please! 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for more time because I need to explain what the previous speaker said. There are certain nuances and some inaccuracies. I have been before the Riigikogu for the third time in connection with this law that has not entered into force. Following the case of the spy Major Metsavas, the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities of the previous Riigikogu found that the law on the organisation of the Defence Forces needs to be amended in order to strengthen the security and defence capabilities of the state. Prison officials and tax and customs officials are likely to have more rights to protect national security than defence forces. On 18 December 2018, the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, under the leadership of Raivo Aeg, a member of the Riigikogu and the current Minister, initiated this draft law. The National Defence Commission was appointed as the lead commission. The first reading of the draft law was completed on 16 January and the second reading on 13 February 2019. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence and Internal Affairs participated in the meetings of the National Defence Committee and the Special Committee on the supervision of security authorities of the Riigikogu at the time, and representatives of the Defence Police Department, Defence Forces Intelligence and Chancellor of Justice attended the meetings of the committees. Only the National Defence Committee tabled amendments to this draft by the deadline of 5.15 p.m. on 30 January 2019. In addition to one proposal with technical content, these were the result of an opinion of the Government of the Republic, including 21 January, on the draft, which included proposals to clarify the wording of the draft. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in today's Government of the Republic, the Centre Party and the Fatherland will continue, and now there is also an EKRE that did not oppose the draft, which is why these parties should still have a supportive position on the law under discussion, and this should also be the case for today's government. In view of the fact that President of the Republic, Kersti Kaljulaid, supreme leader of national defence, failed to declare the law under discussion by Decision No 435 of 7 March 2019, the National Defence Commission addressed this law in its three sessions and as one of the subjects at the meeting with the President of the Republic. On the first occasion, the National Defence Commission discussed the unproclaimed law at its meeting on 6 May, where the Deputy Secretary-General of Justice and Administration of the Ministry of Defence Erki Kodar, Deputy Head of the Legal Department Ingrid Muul and Chief of the Defence Intelligence Centre Colonel Margo Grosberg participated. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice would be asked whether the Act amending the Law on the Order of the Defence Forces, adopted by the Riigikogu on 20 February 2019, is contrary to the Constitution, as the President of the Republic finds in its decision No 435 of 7 March. As you know, the Chancellor of Justice supervises only the laws that have entered into force, but in the framework of the so-called ex-ante control, the Chancellor of Justice participates in meetings of the Government of the Republic with a say. As I mentioned at the beginning of my report, the representative of the Chancellor of Justice also attended a joint meeting of the National Defence Commission and the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities, where the law under discussion was discussed during the draft phase. At its meeting on 6 May, the National Defence Committee decided to ask the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence for a legal position on the decision of the President of the Republic, which we received. On 8 April of this year, Aivar Engel, Head of the Secretary-General of the National Defence Commission, drew up an opinion on the President's decision, in which he considered that the law under discussion was not in conflict with the Constitution. On the second occasion, the National Defence Commission discussed the law at its meeting on 14 May, where representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior took part, including the Internal Security Policy Department of the Ministry of Interior and the Defence Police Department. The following day, on 15 May, the National Defence Committee met with the supreme leader of national defence, President Kersti Kaljulaid, where the law under discussion was also discussed. In the vision of the President of the Republic, the law is contrary to the Constitution. If the Riigikogu adopts the law unchanged, the President of the Republic will probably turn to the Supreme Court, but he also mentioned that he has not taken a final position on this matter. Now more about the decision not to announce the President of the Republic Act. In its decision No 435 of 7 March, the President of the Republic refers to paragraph 29 of the Act amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act, supplementing the Order of the Defence Forces Act by § 541, this is then a new paragraph, and considers that paragraph 2 in conjunction with paragraph 3 of that section is contrary to § 13 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which provides for the principle of legal clarity (protection of a person from the arbitrary interference of state authority), § 26 (right of family and privacy), § 33 (right of home immunity) and § 43 (right of the secret of messages). However, there are only 21 points in the Act amending the Order of the Defence Forces under discussion, i.e. there are no 29 points. The President of the Republic is probably referring to paragraph 20 of the Amending Act, which supplements the Order of the Defence Forces Act with the new § 541. First of all, I note that, in the opinion of the National Defence Commission, § 541 of the Order of the Defence Forces Act has no relation to the articles of the Constitution, not to any of them. The security area of the Defence Forces is the territory held by the Defence Forces pursuant to Chapter 6 of the Order of the Defence Forces Act and is located on it by campuses of the Defence Forces, headquarters buildings, rear and training centres, machinery parks, weapons and other warehouses, shooting ranges, as well as Defence Forces ships, aircraft, vehicles. Under § 54 of the Order of the Defence Forces Act, the Defence Forces may temporarily define as a security area the territory on which they have the right to be present under law, other legislation or contract, if this is indispensable for the security of the Defence Forces or for the safety of third parties in connection with the performance of their duties. In practice, this means that, like the Defence Forces' security area, the temporary security area must be marked and guarded. For example, the building held by the state or local government is marked with tape and other signs and guarded by the Defence Forces. A temporary area of security cannot be a whole city or a part of the city, as it cannot be physically marked or provided with manned guards. Paragraph 20 of the Act under discussion gives the Defence Forces the right to check personal data from databases for the purpose of identifying and controlling a significant threat and, if necessary, to do so in a covert manner, in order to protect the security area. For the protection of a person's security area, discreet surveillance is even more limited and permitted in very extreme cases. According to § 541 (2) added to paragraph 20 of the Act, discreet surveillance of a person is permitted only if two conditions are present at the same time. First, in an urgent case, i.e. when representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board or the Defence Police Department are not present yet, and only as long as they arrive and take over the operation. Secondly, to identify and control the heightened threat. Paragraph 5 (4) of the Law Enforcement Act defines an increased risk as a threat to a person's life, physical integrity, physical freedom, a high value asset, a risk of serious damage to the environment or a risk of committing a class 1 crime or a criminal offence as set out in Chapter 22 of the Penal Code, Chapter 15. The National Defence Committee considers such a justification for the violation of fundamental rights to be proportionate, as action against the security area of the Defence Forces in general is a threat to the security of the entire country. The rights of the Defence Forces set out in the Riives are restricted by paragraph 3 of the same section, according to which the Commander of the Defence Forces shall authorise discreet surveillance and shall immediately inform the Defence Police Department and the Minister responsible for the field. The latter also provides civilian control of the Defence Forces. In addition, the decision of the Commander of the Defence Forces regarding discreet surveillance is valid for up to 24 hours, which was discussed here. 24 hours, 1 day. The President of the Republic's letter states that discreet monitoring limits a person's right to privacy and is contrary to § 26 of the Constitution. According to § 26 of the Constitution, a public authority may intervene in private life only in the cases and in accordance with the procedures laid down by law for the protection of health, morals, public order or the rights and freedoms of other persons, for the purpose of preventing a criminal offence or of apprehending a criminal. The prerequisite for the exercise of the right to discreet surveillance is the increased threat posed by the law under discussion, i.e. the threat of committing a serious crime, and nothing else. Similarly, discreet surveillance is permitted for the purposes of implementing the objectives of security authorities under the Security Authorities Act, and the Code of Criminal Procedure accepts discreet surveillance for, inter alia, the purpose of collecting information on the preparation, detection or prevention of a criminal offence and for the purpose of collecting information on a criminal offence in criminal proceedings. At the same time, the National Defence Committee has not yet known the problem of more detailing the concept of 'hidden surveillance', and the laws mentioned have already been announced, entered into force and implemented. I also point out that according to § 55 of the Order of the Defence Forces Act, a member of the Defence Forces has the right to detain a person in the area of security, it is already on the job, I mean the paragraph, not the person who is illegally in the area of security, has committed an offence at the time of entering the security area, or is threatening himself or others by his behaviour. More importantly, pursuant to § 562 of the Order of the Defence Forces Act, the Defence Forces handle offences that are committed without the permission of the Defence Forces on or above the territory of the Defence Forces or in a port with national defence functions on wheels or on other treads in contact with the ground by a vehicle, aircraft or other flying device or craft or other floating equipment (very complicated, right!) which is partly or wholly automatic or remotely controlled. In addition, the Defence Forces are involved in the processing of offences involving the recording or transmission of a picture or image in the security area of the Defence Forces without the permission of the Defence Forces. It must be clear that the Defence Forces are guarding, protecting and monitoring their territory and also monitoring what is happening in its immediate vicinity. These activities are necessary for the Defence Forces, in addition to ensuring security, in order to deal with the offences set out in the Act. Now, in accordance with § 33 of the Constitution, which is in question. The right of the Defence Forces to observe a person secretly for the protection of a security area in certain cases does not include the right to invade a person's home, to listen to him or to read his or her correspondence. The purpose of discreet surveillance for the protection of the Defence Forces' security area is to ensure physical security and, in particular, covert physical counter-monitoring, following a person, if necessary, either on the vehicle or on foot and photo or video recording of a potential threat source. The object of the covert surveillance of the Defence Forces is directly related to the person's behaviour in the immediate vicinity of the security area. Under covert surveillance, the law under discussion is designed to do exactly the same thing as other laws governing discreet surveillance. There is absolutely nothing new here. The regulation of discreet surveillance was laid down in the draft law following the example of the Security Authorities Act. As in this law, under the legislative amendment under discussion, the right of the person to the secret of the message or the privacy of the home, family or private must not be restricted by a disguised entry into a space, building, perimeter, vehicle or computer system for the discreet collection, storage or installation and removal of the necessary technical means of communication. Thus, discreet surveillance is a stand-alone and clearly less damaging measure to a person's fundamental rights. If the law under discussion had been intended to give the Defence Forces the right to enter space in secret or to violate the right to the secret of the message, they should have been explicitly included in the law as a prerequisite for the existence of additional criteria, a request for judicial authorisation and other more thorough proceedings. Coherence with § 13 of the Constitution, here again the President has reproached us. According to § 13 of the Constitution, everyone has the right to the protection of the state and the law, and the law protects everyone from arbitrary acts of state authority. This is a principle of legal clarity, i.e. determination, according to which a law which infringes a fundamental right must be sufficiently defined, since insufficient regulation leads to the possibility of arbitrary use of state power. The security area of the Defence Forces, including the establishment of a security area, is specifically regulated in Chapter 6 of the Defence Forces Organisation Act. Point 20 of the law under discussion introduces amendments according to which two relatively rare and relatively easily verifiable elements, such as the risk of committing a very serious crime and possibly the absence of the staff of the competent authority, are a prerequisite for discreet surveillance. The Defence Forces must immediately inform two other authorities about discreet surveillance: the Defence Police Department and the Ministry of Defence, or the Minister of Defence, or his authorised official. Other compensatory mechanisms regulating the use of this measure and preventing potential abuse. The National Defence Committee will not understand, in particular, the lack of legal clarity of the law and the possibility of arbitrary State authority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the Order of the Defence Forces Act, the Defence Forces already have a right of discreet surveillance in the area of international military operation. Neither the current implementation of the Order of the Defence Forces Act nor the implementation and interpretation of the provisions referred to in the Security Authorities Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure raises any problems or disagreements on matters of excessive restriction of the rights of persons known to the National Defence Commission. At the same time, all these existing laws provide for significantly less specific preconditions and monitoring and information obligations than are the subject of the law under discussion. The President of the Republic also finds in his decision No 435 the following: "In the current judicial area, the legislator has provided legal means for the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police Department to identify and reject a heightened threat in the temporary security area of the Defence Forces. If the resource to carry out these tasks (Please note, the resource is discussed! The agencies mentioned by A.L. are not sufficient, the legislator has to resolve these problems when dealing with the state budget. Giving additional rights to the Defence Forces as a covert pursuit cannot be an acceptable alternative. " According to the National Defence Committee, the law provides for tasks and competences for the Defence Forces In this law, the legislator provides that primary operations to protect the security area of the Defence Forces are within the competence of the Defence Forces. As I mentioned earlier in the report, the Defence Forces are also dealing with certain offences that threaten the security area of the Defence Forces. If the President of the Republic has a duty to check that the law complies with the Constitution before it is declared, then the Riigikogu, the legislator, has a constitutional obligation to ensure the security and protection of the state by law. Now for the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. In his opinion of 15 May, the Chancellor of Justice found that the Riigikogu had the opportunity to clarify the unproclaimed law in such a way that there was no doubt that the law would be implemented in a constitutional manner. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice felt that there was no doubt that a discreet processing of personal data was necessary to protect the security area. In his opinion, the Chancellor of Justice considers that "In order for interference with the fundamental rights of persons to be constitutional, the Riigikogu must provide for important control mechanisms: permission for discreet monitoring by the competent person, time-limiting of operations, implementation of the ultima ratio principle, information obligation, requirements for processing (including deletion) of data. During the process of processing the draft law amending the Order of the Defence Forces Act, these control mechanisms were properly regulated. (These are the words of the Chancellor of Justice. A. L.) With respect to the protection of fundamental rights, it is important how the Defence Forces will implement the rights granted to them (including the establishment of coordination and control mechanisms, the adoption of internal legislation). The task of the Chancellor of Justice is to check this implementation practice and thereby to guarantee the fundamental rights of persons. ' At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice's opinion is not that there is a constitutional barrier, nor does he control the practice of implementing the Defence Forces. I also point out that the corresponding structural unit of the Defence Forces already has the right to collect personal data from the database of the state, local government or other legal entities governed by public or private law during the background check. This right applies, for example, to background checks of persons providing services to the Defence Forces, in addition to deciding on the suitability and admission of members of the Defence Forces, officials and staff to the area of security. Such private databases are, for example, databases of car rental companies and casinos. The National Defence Committee found that the Defence Forces Organisation Act could later be clarified, if necessary, by new amendments to the laws, if there is practice in the application of the laws. The legislative amendment under discussion was prepared by the executive authority for a year and a half. In turn, a new contradiction may arise if the existing Defence Forces Order Act is to be clarified on an ongoing basis. The question is also whether the law would improve if the procedure was opened. There's no knowing today. It is also not appropriate to define, for example, the concept of discreet surveillance in the law under discussion, as this should be done immediately in a number of other laws. The representatives of the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs also did not support the structuring of the concept of discreet surveillance. As a matter of fact, the concept of discreet surveillance can be clarified, if necessary by law, by a government or ministerial regulation or other legal act. Finally. The Chancellor of Justice found that the law under discussion was not in conflict with the Constitution, as confirmed by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Defence Police Department. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this law was adopted in the previous composition of the Riigikogu on 20 February and 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of it, no one was opposed, and 1 member of the Riigikogu abstained. I really hope there are no wind flags here today. I sincerely hope that you will stick to the decision supporting your own law and that the new members of the Riigikogu will also support the procedural proposal of the National Defence Committee. The amendments to the law under discussion are essential in order to reduce the circumstances that hinder the effective and purposeful conduct of military intelligence and restrict the practical application of the powers conferred on the Defence Forces for military intelligence. As a NATO border country, the advance warning is important for Estonia as well as NATO as a whole, especially given the current security situation. The Defence Forces must therefore be given the right to detect actions against the Defence Forces' security area as early as possible. The law also gives the Defence Forces better opportunities to detect potential spies and traitors and to stop the leak of sensitive information. I would like to stress once again that, for example, the background check of the Defence Forces is not a security check under this law, which is strongly feared. The latter was and still is and will continue to be the competence of the Defence Police Department. Now, briefly, the procedural decision of the National Defence Committee. On the third occasion, the National Defence Commission discussed this law, including at its meeting on 27 May. According to the consensual decision of this sitting, the National Defence Committee proposes that the Riigikogu adopt the law under discussion unchanged. If the Riigikogu adopts the Amendment Act unchanged, according to § 107 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the President of the Republic shall declare the Act or turn to the Supreme Court with a proposal to declare the Act incompatible with the Constitution. If the President of the Republic turns to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court's decision would be necessary for reasons of legal clarity under national defence law and could be relied upon in future legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U123	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U124	Good manager! Good waitress! A lot of talk, but the problem is short. The rat got caught, started sticking holes, passed the law, the president said no. But now, briefly, in the Estonian language, say what this is all about. Is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or your good party partner, Hanno Pevkur, trying to get in the way of the President, but you, the generals and the National Defence Committee are very united, as are we who voted in favour of it? What's the point? But say it in one sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U125	Can't get one, I'll say two. You know our party is liberal. It's very close to anarchy, isn't it? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] In this sense, freedom is everything. Everyone decides how he knows how he knows how. The problem is also that I cannot say that our party has been very, very enthusiastic about the circumstances of national defence, or specifically knows what they mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U126	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U127	Thank you. Good waitress! You began your speech on the promise that you would explain the views of the previous rapporteur. I have not seen you in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I assume you have, however, spoken on behalf of the Committee on National Defence. Here's the question. At first, you said that the Government of the Republic unanimously supports the law in its unchanged form. At the same time, the opinions of the ministries were different at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Can you be more specific about who it was, who introduced you to the consensus opinion of the Government of the Republic of Estonia and where can you find it in the protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U128	Thank you. I would remind you that this law has already been passed at least at the level of the Government and the Riigikogu. This amendment was introduced by the President as a whole. So that's why now there's a gap between the additions to the law we've already adopted, I don't know. I don't know if, like I said, the wind has turned in the wrong direction or if there are other problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U129	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. It is now possible to go to the negotiations if there are any candidates. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U130	Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't have come before you, but a colleague has decided to say something that is not appropriate for this hall. Nobody's selling to anybody. Could be a little more polite. That's one. Secondly, what is important about this bill? The question was, what's the point? The point is that if we bring more rights to anyone, whether it's the Defence Forces, whether it's the Police, whether it's the Defence Police Department or it's the Foreign Intelligence Agency, which is seriously violating people's fundamental rights, then it's up to this hall to make sure that these rights are not violated too much. The role of this hall is primarily to ensure the protection of people's fundamental rights, in the same way as defence. National defence tasks can be performed in accordance with the law. Of course, it is our choice whether or not we give the Defence Forces the right to perform two completely new tasks: firstly, the right to go to the databases of private legal entities, to do so in secret, without informing people, and secondly, whether or not we allow the Defence Forces to carry out discreet surveillance, for which he is currently not entitled. These are two very large rights that we want to give the Defence Forces more. In fact, we gave them to the Defence Forces during the previous Riigikogu. The President of the Republic saw a problem with the possible interference of the Constitution. That's the point. We have two security agencies in Estonia: the Foreign Intelligence Board and the Defence Police Department. With these changes, we will open the door outside the law of the security authorities in order to create a third security authority, the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre. Those are the basics. We do not create it formally, but basically, the special services are given two specific rights: to go undercover into databases and to track people under cover. These rights are granted to the Defence Forces. These are the things we have to watch here. If the President of the Republic also saw a surprise-surprise in this problem, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also consensually said that he really should deal with this draft, it is not a matter of getting in front of anyone, it is a concern about the protection of fundamental rights. Of course, I stand with two hands to ensure that the Defence Forces have all the rights so that they can carry out the tasks they need to carry out in order to ensure both the protection of the security area and the defence of Estonia as a whole, but the Defence Forces must take into account the violation of fundamental rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U131	Thank you. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U132	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be worth mentioning some of the points that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and certainly the Committee on National Defence have taken into account in these discussions. Everyone agrees that the security of Estonia must be improved, the Defence Forces must be given the opportunity to ensure the safety of Estonian allies in the Republic of Estonia and to ensure the protection of our country. At the same time, it is the task of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to ensure the protection of all fundamental rights and to rule out constitutional interference. As a result, it is perfectly normal for Riigikogu committees to look at matters from different angles. If they did not do so, there would be no point in the various committees. This has come from different perspectives in today's debate. The National Defence Committee is undoubtedly based on and should be based on the security interests of Estonia and the needs of the organisation of the Defence Forces, while the task of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to find those weaknesses that may harm people's fundamental rights and may not be compatible with the Constitution. This debate is perfectly normal. When it comes to claims about whether or not someone gets spilled, they certainly don't. We had a very substantive debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs both during the procedure on this issue and yesterday. Our view was that the Commission may have different visions and different opinions. However, having read about the minutes of the sessions of the National Defence Committee, which are those arguments for defending the law on why to adopt it unchanged, I would say that the best solution, in my personal opinion, is to adopt it unchanged and give the President the opportunity to turn to the Supreme Court. We can then get the final truth from the Supreme Court whether there is a constitutional barrage or not. Otherwise, if we're going to change one or two sentences here, we're going to stretch this process. We do not really know when this law will actually come into force and when the Defence Forces will have the necessary rights to ensure security. If this law is adopted unchanged at the moment, then the President will have the opportunity to turn to the Supreme Court if he wishes, it is his right, both unfortunately and luckily, so hopefully within a few or three months we will have the truth about whether this law needs to be processed again here or hopefully not to be processed, it will be said that everything is in accordance with the Constitution and the Defence Forces will have the necessary opportunities. I am therefore certainly voting in favour of the adoption of this law in its unaltered state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U133	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U134	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I think Ants Laaneots made a very substantive report. Indeed, Ants is the man who led the procedure in the previous composition and is fully aware of it. As a new member of the Committee on National Defence, I have also taken this issue very seriously, certainly the President's decision taken in the Committee on National Defence has not been lightly taken. Here, several meetings, several sessions that have been held, have already been read out. But it is clearer, as the Chancellor of Justice tells us in his letter, that the law can be clarified. All laws can always be clarified, and that is actually our job. It's just that somewhere in the world, this particular law has to work to figure out what its next problem is. The constitutional barricade has been a cross-cutting issue in this Chamber today. I share the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this is our role. But at several meetings I have asked specialists, lawyers, how to bring together practice and legal expertise so that it is legally competent in law, too, but unfortunately I have not received any answers, though I have received recommendations that this could be done, and it has also been said that this can be done. I thank both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on National Defence. I think that this problem has reached the consciousness of many members of the Riigikogu, and this work has been done very thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U135	Thank you. Looks like there's no more calls. I will close the negotiations and go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to § 114 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, I am voting on the re-adoption of the Act amending the Law on the Order of the Defence Forces, which was sent back to the Riigikogu by the President of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 53 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the Act unchanged, with 31 abstentions. The law has been adopted again in its unaltered state.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U136	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Tobacco Act and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U137	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I hereby begin the first reading of the Bill amending the Tobacco Act and the Law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. This draft concerns the transposition of Articles 15 and 16 of the Tobacco Directive. The draft is only and only for the transposition of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, so-called "Articles 15 and 16 of the Tobacco Directive." These articles are necessary for the implementation of a pan-European system for the detection and monitoring of tobacco products with a view to curbing the tobacco secret market. Under Article 15 of the Tobacco Directive, the draft establishes a traceability system for tobacco product sales packages, the so-called track and track, whereby all tobacco sales packages are to be identified by a unique identification code consisting of numbers and letters. The unique identifier of the sales package cannot be created by the manufacturer himself; it must be obtained from the independent issuer of the unique identifiers assigned by the country. This ensures that the identification codes are really unique and that their issuance is independent of operators. Information on the movement of tobacco products shall be transmitted to the data repository and shall only be accessible to the European Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States. In Estonia, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board is the institution. This ensures the possibility of checking at any moment whether the cigarette package in the store is genuine, which means that there are specific data on it in the data repository, and the package is located in the 'right shop' or is, unfortunately, a counterfeit commodity that is becoming increasingly mobile on the European Union market. Registration of tobacco products takes place in such a way that the operator scans the identification code and enters into the device the information to which the product is moving and from the device moves to the data repository where, as described, surveillance can be carried out. In order to make it easier to enter the data, it is not necessary to register each package separately; a new code can also be created for the group pack, which contains references to all individual sales packages in the group pack. The codes may also be requested from the above-mentioned independent identifier issuer, but may also be generated by the company itself. The registration obligation applies until the first retail establishment, i.e. the obligations arise from producers, importers, wholesale companies, transport companies and a specific shop or bar that ultimately sells the product to the consumer. There is no obligation under the Bill or the Directive to report the movement of tobacco products. The only move the last retail company has to make is to get the company's place of sale code. With this code, wholesalers will report the movement of tobacco products in the future. A large part of the retail businesses have already received the codes. The obligation to provide all operators in the tobacco distribution chain, up to the undertaking before the first retail establishment, with the corresponding equipment enabling the registration of tobacco products, is placed on tobacco producers under the Directive. To fulfil this obligation, tobacco manufacturers have set up a pan-European contact point through which equipment is already being reimbursed. In order to establish a traceability system, manufacturers and importers of tobacco products shall conclude supply agreements with an independent third party service provider in order to accommodate their data relating to tobacco products. Companies importing tobacco products to Estonia already have these agreements. In order to transpose the second article, Article 16, a requirement is introduced to introduce on the packaging of tobacco products a security element facilitating the verification of the authenticity of tobacco products. The security element shall be printed or affixed to the sales package of a tobacco product in such a way that it cannot be removed, erased, concealed or split, including by means of a tax mark, price tag or other element. The tax mark used in Estonia meets the requirements for the security element, which is why it has been decided to introduce the tax mark as a security element in Estonia. This is also the option provided for by the European Union Directive. Enabling the use of the tax mark as a security element is also the least burdensome solution for the manufacturer and importer of tobacco products, as the packaging of tobacco products should not be marked separately. In cases where a tax mark is not affixed to a product, such as in so-called Duty-free shops, the manufacturer's security element must be installed. It shall be developed by the producer or importer of the tobacco product himself, taking into account the requirements of the law and the implementing decision. The security element of the manufacturer or importer must be submitted to the Tax and Customs Board before it is put into service, and any subsequent changes must also be notified to the Tax and Customs Board. The requirements shall apply to cigarettes and roll-your-own tobacco from 20 May 2019 and to other tobacco products from 20 May 2024. Compliance is monitored by the Tax and Customs Board. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to emphasise once again that this is a draft aimed solely at transposing Articles 15 and 16 of the Tobacco Directive in order to restrict the market for galliards. The transposition of these articles could be started by Member States in late spring 2018. The European Commission adopted and made public implementing acts to the Tobacco Directive. Last year, the Ministry of Social Affairs sent a draft to the Ministry of Justice for coordination and opinion through the EIS. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft on 6 December. As many will probably remember, the first reading took place in the Riigikogu on 16 January and the second reading took place on 13 February, which was interrupted at the time at the request of the Minister of Health and Labour. As the work of the XIII Riigikogu ended, this bill fell out of the procedure. The Ministry of Social Affairs has made efforts to ensure that the system of implementing acts of the Tobacco Direct Directive is guaranteed at a minimum level in Estonia as from 20 May 2019, when the deadline for the transposition of Articles 15 and 16 of the Tobacco Directive was actually set. We have found a temporary issuer of unique identifiers, thus ensuring that the necessary unique identifiers are already available to the parties to the supply chain. We have carried out a pre-registration process which has ensured that a large number of tobacco operators had the necessary identification codes when the directive came into force. In the event of a significant delay of several months in transposing the directive, we risk a fine from the European Court of Justice, which is estimated to amount to more than a quarter of a million euros. I therefore call on you to support the draft in order to achieve the transposition of the directive as soon as possible, which is already overdue. I would also suggest that, at the moment, we exclude all amendments which are not relevant to the draft. We no longer have time to transpose the directive, we are already overdue and it is certainly in Estonia's interest to avoid possible fines. The Ministry of Social Affairs has prepared a separate draft amending the Tobacco Act and we have started negotiating it with the parties and supplementing it on the basis of discussions. The draft will certainly reach this Chamber as well, so that we can discuss all possible amendments and find the best solution for other tobacco products that have caused many differences of opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U138	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U139	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Can you describe these efforts made by the Ministry of Social Affairs? What makes you so sure that the Ministry of Social Affairs is ready to come up with a new amendment to the tobacco law?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U140	As I have already described, a temporary issuer of unique identifiers has been found. It is a Slovak company that offers the same service to Finland and Ireland, and its subsidiary offers the same service to Sweden. This ensures that the necessary unique features are already available. As far as the second draft is concerned, first of all, it is certainly the fact that, as Minister of Social Affairs, I cannot give you any unprotected promises on this board, so of course we will come to this Chamber with this bill. The draft has been sent to the coordination circle, the ministries have some differences of opinion, which we are certainly dealing with. We consider that Members will probably also have amendments. As I said, all of them can already be discussed in the context of this second draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U141	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U142	Thank you. Dear Minister, I believe you are aware that on 21 March there was a meeting of experts from the European Commission's SANTE, the European Commission's Health and Food Safety Unit, on tobacco policy, which reaffirmed that no ban on flavourings could be imposed on new tobacco products. There was also an Estonian representative, but on 3 April the Ministry has sent a draft law to the coordination circle, which contains two sections which prohibit flavours in new tobacco products. This is contrary to Article 12 (7) of the Tobacco Directive. Are you aware of this, and do you support such illegal conduct?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U143	I am aware that there are differences of opinion on this matter between the lawyers of the Ministry of Social Affairs and other ministries. As this debate in Parliament shows, perhaps there are differences of opinion among Members. In Estonia, laws are passed by the Riigikogu. Members will be able to propose amendments to the draft law through the Committee on Social Affairs. There are certainly debates here, debates. Whatever form the final law will be adopted, it will be a decision of Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U144	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Yes, the thing that was suspended at second reading on 13 February was a relatively phobia. What is your opinion, shouldn't we also deal with the second part of this law, anything but tax labelling, as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U146	I undoubtedly agree that other changes need to be taken forward, and I also referred to them in my report. It is indeed our desire to move forward as quickly as possible in the Ministry of Social Affairs, in this case with this draft, which was due on 20 May 2019. Of course, we can then start the procedure for the next draft, which concerns novel, heated tobacco products, already during Parliament's spring session, and reach agreements, whatever they may be.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U147	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U148	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Am I right to understand that the members of the Riigikogu must not propose amendments to this draft, and if the large chamber of the Riigikogu would support these amendments, you would probably interrupt reading because that is not the purpose of the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U149	The first, the second, and the third of these claims, I have not made. I certainly have not prohibited any member of the Riigikogu from making proposals. My proposal to you was that, if possible, we could move forward quickly with this draft and discuss all other tobacco products already within the framework of the second draft. It just seems more logical and smoother in terms of the process of work. As I said, the bill is urgent.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U150	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U151	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I've been a state official for a long time in a ministry that you run today. We also observed the principle of economics and comprehensibility of law processing by the Riigikogu. It is quite irrational to propose new amendments and new drafts to the same law in a very short time. We are talking today about changing the alcohol law and other laws, but we know that an amendment to the alcohol law is about to come. In fact, the present draft does not guarantee compliance with the directive at 100%. Would it not make sense, however, to combine these two drafts and to solve the problems together?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U152	I think that there are at least two alternatives, if not more, to the processing of every law. In this case, the Ministry of Social Affairs has considered it more reasonable to consider these two issues separately on the basis of its best knowledge and competence. Members of the Riigikogu always have the opportunity to deal with them together, but as I referred to earlier, my proposal as Minister of Social Affairs would be to move forward with the so-called 'normal' tobacco products, this track-and-trace system, which is the most critical in terms of time. Then we could discuss a much more complex issue, where, I think, there are more differences of opinion. I'll take a look at today's questions. None of them shall concern the provisions referred to in Articles 15 and 16. Perhaps all members of the Riigikogu and the parties to the government agree to curb the market for salasigarets, but more differences and questions have arisen in the regulation of novel tobacco products concerning flavourings and other such matters. It was therefore our proposal to move forward with those things where there are no differences of opinion and to take to a separate debate in the future those issues where there are more questions, different views, fewer studies and perhaps less common parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U153	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It has been said here several times today that the transposition of the two articles of the Tobacco Directive is intended to curb the tobacco secret market. My question is very simple. Among the effects of this law are the financial impact, the impact on human health in the European Union and the impact on whether it affects tobacco consumption in any way. It is said that the impact on tobacco consumption is small. I ask a very simple question: will the secret market for the import or removal of tobacco products end permanently in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U155	I don't think it's possible to give that answer so categorically. The fight against the secret market and all kinds of secret sales, whether alcohol, tobacco or illegal pleasures, is endless. Our aim and hope, of course, is that this bill will contribute to curbing, restricting the secret market. But hope that this will be a complete point and the market in the Republic of Estonia will be 100% legal, no matter what product market we are talking about, would probably be a little too optimistic. Unfortunately, I cannot make such a bold promise today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U156	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. The rapporteur for the commission is Tõnis Mölder, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U157	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 13 May, the Social Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Tobacco Act and the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. An overview of this draft had come to the Commission to give us the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik, and Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Maris Jesse. The Commission discussed this draft concerning the transposition of the two Directives on labelling and traceability of tobacco packaging. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu decided to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur, the speaker Tõnis Mölder, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 29 May and to conclude the first reading of the draft (the decision to conclude the first reading was consensual) and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 12 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U158	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Let's go to the negotiations. The representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to negotiate. On behalf of the Group of the Isamaa of Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U159	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, good colleagues and all of you who follow us online! We are always allowed to ask very few questions. One of the Minister's most recent reflections was illegal pleasures, which are some substances that can make people enjoy themselves, perhaps an energy drink in my case. But what are they, and why are substances of pleasure illegal? I know that in our group we may be treating the same things as mind poisons, but I know that knowledge is better in the Ministry of Social Affairs. If there are substances that give people pleasure or pleasure, they should be legalized. I hope they're not mind poisons. As you most of us know, we've dealt with this whole thing here together, which ended up with this 13 February phobia. We know how difficult it is, how difficult it is to reopen the tobacco law procedure in order to start changing the law again, and then these are coordination circles and what they all come from there. I think that we are going to make amendments exactly as we did in February. This will and the confidence that the members of the Riigikogu had on 13 February, I think we still have this spirituality here. All the more so when it comes to public health. For those who want to quit smoking, there is a need to provide some help, such as alternative tobacco products, counselling offices for quitting smoking, or all other things. In February, I will mention to you again, yes, the great hall of the Riigikogu found that our tobacco policy has fallen behind in time, and made some amendments that were, of course, the result of which the draft was withdrawn from the procedure. But I want to tell you something else. This is also a newsstand for me. Certainly, two previous Health and Labour Ministers will also have a role to play in the shameful fate of this issue, for whom the tobacco monitoring system certainly did not have any priority. At the same time, the Ministry did not manage the project in time. May 20th, the date of entry into force, is already over for today. Will there be fines now? I've been following pretty seriously the news from the Ministry of Social Affairs about the identification and tracking of tobacco products. There is not a real line published, nor is there an explanatory note about how and who should issue these ID codes. If I were a supplier to Estonia, I shouldn't have to know this information, and I don't think I need to talk about it. But I want to tell you why there is a question of politicising officials in the coalition agreement. That's right. If an official body has been determined to take a world-view stand on one, two, or three, it does not really serve the interests of the whole nation in the wider sense. Today, for some reason, the Ministry has already granted the right to share these ID codes with an NGO and will pay for this activity. The Minister was not asked how many tobacco producers there are in the Republic of Estonia to whom these codes can be shared. Now we learned that a Czech company has won this competition, but the draft if it has not actually reached somewhere, because the reading was interrupted, amendments were tabled by 27 February. By that time the composition was over and this bill fell out of the procedure. Perhaps the officials themselves have decided, they have already found an NGO, despite the fact that we have not adopted the law. To sum up, let me give you a simple example. As a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs, the proposal was made on behalf of the Committee on European Union Affairs that heated tobacco products could have a warning sign in Estonian that the product could be harmful to health. But it wasn't wanted to be reflected for some reason. I'll take it this time, I've got so much information, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U160	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U161	Thanks! Tobacco law equates all tobacco and nicotine products, which, in many countries, is no longer the most sensible approach. The Scandinavian countries are closest to us and could serve as an example. Sweden, Norway and Iceland have reached a situation where smoking has already been marginalised due to changes in consumer behaviour. Smoking is the cause of many premature deaths, fire accidents and serious diseases. Various data suggest that Estonia lost 22000 years of age in 2016 because of smoking alone. A large part of the major death-related diseases just as well as respiratory diseases and tumors would be preventable or even avoidable if Estonia were to get rid of the fascination of cigarettes and allow smokers who have not yet stopped smoking to choose a less harmful alternative product. However, the chapter on tobacco policy in the Public Health Development Plan represents just half a page of the 50-page report, and specific activities in terms of research and substance are not offered. The Institute for Health Development has a harm reduction programme to deal with drug addiction and alcoholism, but does not deal with smoking harm, which is not a priority. In the next ten years, are we still reading morality, hoping that maybe the smoker will just stop smoking? According to the new Health Development Institute Health Behaviour Statistics for 2018, 25% of people in Estonia smoke. However, the objective is to reach 18% by 2025. This can be achieved and can be done sooner if we look at the new models of consumer behaviour and habits. However, how can we make it clear to ministerial officials that the rational regulation of alternative tobacco products would also help reduce passive smoking, increase the number of healthy years of life, most likely lead to a reduction in the number of fire deaths, and the last one, but I think it is also important that we have free streets, parks and beaches. It already seems to me that it is not the Ministry's desire to reduce smoking or help people quit smoking, all the more so that no money was simply found for quitting offices in 2019. Was the amount that we have given to friendly brothers in Latvia due to border trade missing, or has this fine already been included? We actually accepted it on May 20th. Or maybe he didn't. Thank you. I will make amendments on behalf of Smoke-free Estonia and, big hall, I count on your support.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U162	Thank you. Vilja Toomas, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U163	Thank you. I think I'm gonna need some more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U164	Five plus three minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U165	Ladies and gentlemen, There are several reasons why I, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, am taking the floor today and commenting on the amendments to the Tobacco Act, both on the amendments that are set out in Bill 9 and on those that are not yet written there, but on which the previous Riigikogu showed its clear political will on 13 February 2019. I would like to begin by saying that I had the opportunity to act as a Member of the European Parliament during the preparation and adoption of this tobacco directive, which we are trying to integrate into Estonian law today. I therefore dare say what this directive, which came into force in 2016, wanted and hoped to achieve. I would like to point out immediately in the introduction that the regulation of both draft 9 and of tobacco products which are currently not heated is a matter of transposition of the same directive, so there is no reason and there is no reason why these matters should be dealt with separately in the Riigikogu. First of all, we're long overdue for all kinds of rushing. The Directive should have been transposed by 20 May 2016, the deadline for receipt was 20 May 2019, which has also been discussed here today. Every day we can expect fines from the European Commission. Today it is 29 May 2019, so these are repeated fears by officials and some politicians, so that we in the Riigikogu cannot deal with the amendments to draft 9, the manipulation of the servant. We can and must process when such proposals appear. There is reason to believe, on the basis of what has been heard in the costaard and also what has been said today, that the amendments are coming and are not few and are not of minor importance. Secondly, I call on the Riigikogu to act as a parliament, not as a toy of individual officials and some politicians. Let us not forget that all political parties committed themselves to making the Riigikogu a centre of real political power before the elections. I therefore sincerely hope that the new government and the new Minister of Social Affairs in the Riigikogu will not hold a similar performance under the feet of parliamentarianism, as took place on 13 February 2019 when the second reading of the 775 bill was interrupted. In my opinion, it was a black, if not sad, day of democracy in Estonia and of parliamentarianism in Estonia. I also sincerely hope that the new Minister of Social Affairs will be able to establish himself as a minister, so as not to happen as was the case in the procedure of the draft 775 when one day the Minister of Health and Labour confirmed in writing to the Riigikogu that he supported certain proposals on the draft, and the next day the Ministry official announced that the Ministry would no longer support such proposals, with the letter of the Minister referred to above changing the form in full life. In our country, it is time to be clear: do ministers run officials or do officials run ministers and, therefore, the whole country? Three. Please stop the procedural trickery. I have heard the humorous metaphor in the discussion circles of the Riigikogu that the procedure is among the fine arts. There has been nothing beautiful in the process of amending the Tobacco Act, but there has been a lot of ugly. The government would have had nothing easier than to take the text of the second reading of the draft voted by the Riigikogu on 13 February 2019 and re-present it to the new Riigikogu. All the more so since no proposals were received by 27 February 2019, which was the deadline for submitting amendments to the above-mentioned draft. Instead, at the beginning of April this year, in the days of the old government, a new procedural trick was taken, separating the draft 775 into two parts, one of which is today at first reading. The second part, which includes the regulation of heated tobacco products, was sent to an interministerial coordination ring. Of these procedural steps, I can only think that the sole purpose of such editing is that the draft regulation on heated tobacco products should never become a law and that Latvia's border trade would become an article in its portfolio. Fourthly, please stop trying to impose illegal regulations in Estonia. From the time of work in the European Parliament, I remember quite clearly that the ban on flavourings for novel tobacco products, including heat-treated tobacco products, is within the competence of the European Union and not within the competence of the Member States. However, in the draft sent to ministries on 3 April 2019 for coordination, the ban on flavourings is in full beauty and glory. No wonder the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications failed to coordinate a draft containing such illegal languages. Five. Please overcome the efforts to be more holy than the pope of Rome or to be a greater European than Europe. As long as no illegal bans or restrictions are sought in relation to the Tobacco Directive, there is no need for any communication or coordination with any body in the European Union. Let us also know that this directive itself created a higher standard of health protection. Climbing above this standard is a typical over- and under-regulation, which is fundamentally unacceptable to me. Six. If similar changes appear to regulate heated tobacco products, as was presented to the Riigikogu on 23 January and as accepted by the Riigikogu on 13 February, there is a first chance that the coalition and at least a part of the opposition can step in the political choices. Let us not forget that on 13 February 2019 members of today's coalition voted in favour of such proposals, in addition to members of the Reform Party. So let's not let the first chance of cooperation go wrong. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-29_U166	Thank you. It seems that the political groups do not have any more requests to speak. Let's finish the negotiations. According to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the first reading of the draft 9 has been completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 9 including 12 June at 5 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Thank you and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 3.37 p.m.
