ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good work week again. We will begin the Monday session of the 10th working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, the representative of the Government of the Republic, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry and the law on the granting of international protection to aliens. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on Audit Activities, the Act on Prevention and Resolution of the Financial Crisis and other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when this bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Third, the draft National Defence Act. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Penal Code. And fifthly, the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Administrative Procedure and the Penal Code and other laws. Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above three draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U3	Thank you! On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted five drafts and the Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Checking for presence. There are 90 delegates and 11 missing. The next item is the adoption of the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the 10th working week agenda for the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 90 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U4	Today's agenda item is the first reading of 108 draft Act on funded pensions initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (mandatory pension reform). I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, how the procedure in the first reading of the draft works. First of all, the originator or author of the draft shall be present for a maximum of 20 minutes, followed by a presentation by a representative of the commission of directors for a maximum of 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit two oral questions to the members of the Riigikogu together for a total of two minutes. Then we will open negotiations, where only the representatives of the political groups can speak, for 5 + 3 minutes. Now, I would like to ask the Secretary of Finance, Martin Helme, to wait here first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U5	Honourable Speaker of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of the draft reform of the second pillar developed by the government. The main objective of this reform is to make the second mandatory pillar voluntary for people and, consequently, to give the second pillar collectors more freedom of decision to invest their money. I believe that the reform will, among other things, lead to greater awareness and accountability of people in managing their finances and will also motivate pension service providers to work harder to provide a good service. There are a lot of details in this reform and quite technical details in this reform, but if I try to sum up the major changes made to the draft, I would concentrate them on the next four points. Firstly, people will have decision-making powers whether or not to raise pension funds in the second pillar. This decision-making power arises both for those who have already joined the second pillar when the changes enter into force and for those who have not yet joined the second pillar. Secondly, in addition to collecting money for pension funds, pension funds can also be raised and invested through an investment account. It's a whole new thing. Thirdly, people will have the right to use the money collected in the second pillar under certain conditions already at the time of pension collection. Fourthly, when you reach retirement age, it is up to each person to decide how to use the money collected. Now, a little more detail about the nature of the reform. As has been said, joining the second pillar as well as leaving the pillar will become voluntary. It is important to bear in mind that all those who are already raising money in the second pillar and want to do so even after the reform comes into force do not have to do anything. The same applies to those people who are not currently in the second pillar and do not wish to join it in the future. They don't have to do anything either. Today's general rule remains that young people entering the labour market will be added to the second pillar by default, but the reform gives them the right to reverse this rule, or not to join it. However, all those who wish to change their current status with regard to the second pillar should be active. In this way, people who have not joined the second pillar, such as myself, will have the right to apply for membership. There are potentially about 100,000 such people in Estonia. People who are in the second pillar, but do not want it, will be able to leave the second pillar when the reform starts. You can leave with or without the money you collect. A person who no longer wants to raise money in the second pillar can simply stop making contributions and keep the collected money in the second pillar. But he can also leave by taking the money he collected out of the fund. It should be borne in mind that withdrawals automatically stop contributions to the second pillar. If a person has left the second pillar once, with or without money, he or she will be able to start collecting again later if he or she so wishes. To this end, at least 10 years must have elapsed since leaving the second pillar. Hence, the decision to leave is important, and it needs to be carefully thought through by people. Contributions to the second pillar can be stopped and the money withdrawn up to two times. Once a person has left the second pillar and then resumed his collection ten years later, he will be able to reconsider one more time and leave the second pillar. However, such a right does not arise until a person, in turn, has collected money in the second pillar for at least ten years. If he uses his right to leave the pillar for the second time, he will no longer be able to join the pillar after that. Applications to leave the pillar can be submitted at all times. The application deadlines are the same as for pension fund units, i.e. end of November, end of March and end of July. The payment of contributions shall end according to when the application was submitted, either in January, May or September. There are also some limitations to the payment of money that need to be taken into account. Only all the money can be taken out. If the amount collected does not exceed EUR 10000, it shall be paid in a single payment. If the amount is higher, the remaining part shall be received in one or two instalments. Payments are made in January, May and September. If the second pillar money is put into use before the retirement age, it is subject to 20% income tax. As I have pointed out, the draft offers, alongside pension funds, the opportunity to manage the investments of its second pillar itself. To this end, a special "second pillar" pension investment account will be created. It's similar to a regular investment account, but it takes into account the rules of the second pillar. Only second-pillar money can be received in the pension investment account; it is possible to have investments in both the pension fund and the investment account system at the same time. It is possible to transfer the funds collected from the fund to the account and vice versa. The same second-pillar rules apply to the mobilisation of funds collected on the investment account as in the case of funds. When a person reaches retirement age, he or she can decide for himself or herself how to use the money, whether to withdraw all the money at once or as a life-long or fixed-term pension. The right to a second pillar pension arises up to five years before the national pension is reached. People who are already retired receive their second pillar pension by default. If a retired person no longer wishes to receive a pension in this way, he or she will be able to withdraw his or her money at the same time if he or she so wishes. This is the case both when the pension is obtained from the fund and when it is paid by the insurance undertaking. The draft provides for mechanisms to ensure that today's second pillar pensioners are able to adapt smoothly to the new opportunities. In order to further motivate the use of second pillar money as a pension in particular, the draft provides for tax incentives in the event that the money is used at retirement age. In this way, a life-long and life- expectancy-shared term pension does not have to pay any income tax at all, while the remaining payments have a tax rate of 10%. The draft also allows people with a lack of working capacity to retire from the second pillar, regardless of their age. Payments to persons with no working capacity shall also not be subject to income tax. Most of the changes are planned to be implemented in January 2021 according to the current plans, but applications to join or leave the second pillar could start to be submitted as early as the summer of 2020. The implementation of the reform will certainly require changes in the IT systems of a number of public authorities and private companies. There is certainly a need to contribute to introducing and explaining to people the new opportunities that the reform brings. These activities will take off once the details of the reform have been finally agreed in this Chamber. In conclusion, I believe that a balanced reform package has been completed in the preparation of the draft, which adds flexibility to today's system and takes account of the interests of the various people, while also bearing in mind the objectives of long-term retirement. Before I answer your questions, I would like to read out a few numbers so that the background system is better understood by what our pension picture is now. Some 740000 people have joined the second pension pillar, with up to 100,000 potential new entrants. These are people who have not joined yet, but are still of working age. The second pillar funds currently amount to EUR 4.6 billion. On average, just over 6 000 euros have been collected in the second pillar, but the median is 4500 euros. About 63% of those who join the second pillar actively contribute to the second pillar. In 2019, the state budget includes 4% social tax entries in the second pillar of the state worth EUR 316 million. We predict that by 2023 this amount will reach the 400 million limit. The average nominal yield of the Samba funds is 3.8% and the real return is 0.8%. The average government fee is approximately 0.74% and it gradually decreases. The expected percentage next year is 0.62, but four years ago it was 1.4. This year, nearly EUR 40 million has been spent on fund management fees. As of the end of 2018, the total number of payments from the second pillar has been 32500, while 41000 people had the right to receive payments, which means that 22% have not yet wished to start making payments. These are primarily working pensioners who have not yet wished to start paying out from the second pillar. Between 2009 and 2018, 63 million euros have been paid out of the second pillar, of which 16 million under pension contracts, 35 million in fund pension and 12 million in one-off payments. One-off payments are so small that they cannot be distributed over a long period of time. The average pension contract payout is 60 euros and the fund pension payout is 50 euros. These are the pension contracts that have been concluded with insurance companies with a total of around 8000, and the liabilities of these contracts amount to approximately 90 million. The pension is paid out in this way for EUR 5 million per year. In comparison, the Social Insurance Institution pays an old-age pension of approximately EUR 1.8 billion per year. The reform may result in a long-term revenue for the state budget from the suspension of contributions of a maximum of EUR 400 million and a one-off income for the withdrawal of funds of a maximum of EUR 1 billion, linked to an increase in income tax and an increase in VAT. The reform is accompanied by IT developments of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board and the Social Insurance Board. The one-off cost is estimated at EUR 7.1 million, which is likely to be increased later by running costs, which we are now able to estimate to around EUR 1 million per year. Some numbers for the third pillar. The third pillar is made by 100,000 people, but real contributions were made by just over 60,000 people in 2018. The average contribution is 3% of the person's income. In 2018, 111 employers made contributions to the third pillar for a total of 2 000 employees, with a total of 2.5 million euros. At the end of 2018, the amount of the third pillar funds will be EUR 154 million and the total amount of the reserves of the insurance contract shall be EUR 234 million. We put the second pillar next to it, with EUR 4.6 billion. The usual investment account is not the same as the pension investment account is used by 4000 to 5000 people with varying success, and the securities account is around 30000 people in Estonia. That's why I might finish the introductory part. I see you want to ask questions here. I'd love to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U6	Thank you. There are quite a few questions. First please Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U7	Thank you to the manager. Good minister! According to the attorney-at-law of Ellex Raidla, Toomas Vaher, the payment of the 4% contribution paid from the state budget to the pension pillar from the social tax of collectors may be contrary to the fundamental right of equality, as it leads to unequal treatment of persons who have not joined the second pillar. 'Why do some people get some of their paid social contributions for use, others don't? ' Vaher raised the question. I am one of the few in Estonia who has not joined the second pillar. And I ask: how does today's government plan to remedy inequality when this bill becomes a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U8	Thank you. The Ministry of Finance ordered legal analysis from Varul's office, and the Ministry of Justice ordered legal analysis. I haven't seen the Ministry of Justice's, but I understand that these tests are relatively similar. The analysis we have commissioned has shown very clearly that the risk that the country can be dealt with either because of unequal treatment or because of some form of damages claims is very low. Of course, it is possible to deal with everything, but these points, which are often referred to in the Constitution, are not applicable to this reform. There are plenty of restrictive factors. It must always be remembered, firstly, that joining the second pillar was voluntary, at least until a certain age. For example, I didn't join, and I probably don't intend to join, but it was a voluntary decision, a free choice of man. Since people were free to choose for themselves, unequal treatment by the state is not such a crucial issue. Secondly, when people withdraw money from the second pillar, they do so knowing that their first pillar share is actually smaller, because part of their social tax was transferred to the second pillar in the meantime. It is also their own conscious choice of how they plan their money. So there is no forced unequal treatment here. If someone feels like he wants to continue collecting into the second pillar because this is the best way to invest his social tax, then he doesn't have to do anything. So, very briefly: it is, of course, possible that somebody is going to murmur, that this is unequal treatment, but we estimate that this risk is very low, we say, from outside the house as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U9	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I will continue, however, with the same question that I asked in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Your own draft says very clearly here there is no other way to understand that it is more likely that the draft will further worsen the pension's ability to replace wages, i.e. we know that the net replacement rate will fall. The net replacement rate will decrease under the influence of this draft. It also takes into account the aspects of the first pillar, which you have later emphasised in your public media commentary. The National Audit Office also understands the impact of the draft explanatory memorandum in exactly the same way, their assessment was later received. In order to mitigate the negative impact, the draft provides for either an increase in the tax or an increase in the retirement age. I'm asking you which one you prefer. Increase in tax or retirement age?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U11	Yeah, and have I stopped drinking cognac in the morning yet? Thank you for your question. I'm glad the MPs are reading the 112-page explanatory memorandum. Undoubtedly, the last part of it is the one that interests you the most. And I understand you guys have just picked out the pieces you like best. I'm gonna pick out the pieces I like. 'It is apparent from the above that, after the reform, all scenarios are likely to be positive and negative. ' Then there's a sentence that makes a difference. 'The latter does not necessarily mean that the pensioner's income may be reduced as other savings may be higher. ' It is true that there are some sentences here that say that if all other circumstances remain the same, the pension replacement rate may decrease. But I would like to draw attention to a number of very important things. Firstly, the explanatory memorandum states that if we do nothing, the pension replacement rate will decrease anyway. It's shrinking anyway! In other words, an increase in the pension replacement rate is not possible even if we do not reform at all. Secondly, I would point out that this 'negative' scenario has highlighted a number of 'predictions' or conditions which, at best, are speculative, in other words, based on today's picture and assumes that nothing in the rest of the existing system will change. But it's changing! Thirdly, and this is very important: even if we change these inputs or assumptions or conditions, and there is a huge amount of these conditions from what immigration will do in the next 30 years, what the birth rate will do in the next 30 years, what economic growth will do in the next 30 years, what our state budget or tax policy will do in other areas, no matter what piece of moving in this moving machine, the result will change very much immediately, because the time perspective we are measuring is so long. I'm right at the beginning of this, I'm sure we'll have more of these questions here, and I want to say that it's all speculative. We will certainly spend the next few hours speculating, but it is relatively useless, because we can only make forecasts for the next two years, five years. We do not have any credibility if we make forecasts for 40 years or 50 years, because all these assumptions are simply speculative. No matter what assumption to change a little bit, the result changes radically. But one thing that must always be remembered is that even if we leave all these other assumptions unchanged or change them substantially, we will never consider the part of the pension that people are left with more free money and that they increase their wealth themselves outside the public or private pension collection system and their net assets can be freely greater when they reach retirement age than their so-called "pension indicator" alone can show their wealth.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U12	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! So you can't accuse me of speculating, I'd talk about something that got out today. Namely, Coop Pank's IPO results were made public today. And, to put it mildly, they were under all kinds of expectations, i.e. less stock was subscribed than was actually expected in the IPO. There is no need to look very far for the reason: the pension reform is the one we are discussing here today. The participation of Estonian pension funds was extremely modest. It won't help if you say there's enough money in the world. In fact, many Estonian projects, Estonia's small businesses are small, they are not attractive to large investors located outside Estonia. Why are you doing a disservice to the Estonian capital market? Instead, as Minister of Finance, you should do everything you can to develop the capital market in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U14	Thank you. By the way, I am doing everything I can to develop the capital market in Estonia. Seriously. I have many meetings and work plans in this regard. Maybe about a month ago, if I remember correctly, maybe it was two months ago, it was Uber's IPO. A huge, worldly popular thing, but it also fell on the face. I didn't get the money. Probably the reason there was also the reason we did not have to look for a reason far from the Estonian pension reform. I do not know where this assurance is taken that an overestimation or underestimation of an investment initiative is linked to our pension reform. Yeah, maybe it is, maybe it is in part, maybe there are other things. I must honestly admit that I have not deepened Coop's IPO prospectus, but there may be a hundred other reasons. I do not believe that this is one-to-one in terms of pension reform, as has now been argued.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U15	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U16	Thank you. It is terribly cynical when the Minister of Finance says that nothing is known about anything and that all variables can turn everything upside down. The result of this screw-up is a reduction in the pension compared to the failure to complete this reform. The forecasts of both the Ministry of Finance and Eesti Pank estimate it in round terms to 30%, as this depends on the real-world variation of income and other similar things. But the direction of the reform is known, and do not talk the other way around. Our pension system is minimalist. If the pension is reduced by 30%, how would you interpret § 28 of the Constitution, which says that people are entitled to state support in the event of old age, disability and deprivation? This shortcoming will be deeper than those of the current pensioners. Please tell me what you're really doing to keep the country safe. In the Commission, you kept saying that it was a man's business and that the state did not have to live a man's life. How would you put the same thing right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U17	Thank you. It must be said that in this explanatory memorandum the same 30% that was referred to has also been referred to Eesti Pank. In other words, this part of the explanatory memorandum is a recycled text taken from Eesti Pank and it is exactly as I said it would be highly speculative. All the projections we're going to make in advance for 30-50 years are speculative. I am pleased that there are statesmen in this Chamber who think a century or at least a half century in advance, but one thing I can say with absolute certainty, and that is not very debatable. This is because, as a result of the reform, we will be able to raise pensions next year, increase the income of pensioners, and this will increase the base, which will also be carried forward to a distance of 30 years, right? The claim that perhaps in 30 years' time, if these and these conditions plus these and these conditions have been met, the pension will be reduced by 30%, well I don't know which one you are taking seriously. I'm taking the forecast and the plan for next year seriously, but there's no speculation 30 years away. Actually, that's exactly what it is. And that is exactly what I said in the Commission. Each person must first look at his own life and plan his own future. I would seriously question the reform party about the fact that you have been talking for years about the rights and freedoms of the individual, including the freedom of decision for citizens, and I would like to remind you of all these fine arguments when we talk about the cohabitation law. But now that it's about money, you're gonna take money away from them by force and you're gonna tell them not to stick your nose in it, we know better, the country knows better. How does it go together?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U18	Annely Akkerman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! You said you had not joined the second pillar of the pension system. I am, and I am very pleased. The contribution has increased by about a quarter, and I am specifically guaranteed 95% of the guarantee fund. However, I would like to ask whether you consider it solidarity and fair that those wishing to withdraw money from the second pillar would receive their paid-up 2% and proportional return and the remaining 4% and proportional return would be transferred back to the first pillar, because the first pillar is known to be divided more jointly and severally than the second pillar. And since you're not very old, I suggest you join the second pillar. It's also a good investment on your high salary. You'll be able to collect, there's still time to retire!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U20	Thank you. I always listen to good financial advice, but I'm not sure I will. Yes, the issue of paying out 2% or 4% or the whole 6% was very seriously debated in the course of the reform. However, very clearly and more seriously, we ran into this problem here, that then we will have a contradiction with the Constitution, because for almost 20 years we have treated the money from the second pension pillar as private property. This is private property, and by that, the person who has collected into the second pillar is smaller than the so-called national pillar. Now, if we take this private property and start redistributing it, we will definitely have a much bigger constitutional breach than any other scheme. The other big problem we bumped into was this. Okay, you have a certain amount of money accumulated in that pillar in 10 or 15 years. You can figure out what that sum is. However, it is not possible to add this amount afterwards to the first pillar in such a way that this amount reflects the value it had when it was taxed. This calculation is going crazy, it's total space. Then we run back to the fact that people have been treated unequally and unfairly. One person was put in the first pillar as a percentage of the social tax in 2007, while the second person divided it into two quarters and the rest went into the second pillar, and its value was different than today. If we were to get all this money back to the first pillar as of today, people would get a hell of a prank. We don't want that either. So in the end, we have come to the conclusion, in my opinion, that the money from the second pension pillar is private property. It is all one asset and must be treated as one piece.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U21	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U22	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Today we are working here on a draft whose real impact can be measured in practice in 2048. Then this year will reach retirement age for young women and men who were required to join the second pillar. They're 36 now. The parents of them did so voluntarily, as you mentioned here today. The truth may also come later when the retirement age is growing in the meantime and, according to experts, this is a high probability. There has been a very strong criticism of the draft and, therefore, the whole process in the 1960s resembles the behavioral pattern described by English psychologists, the cognitive partiality. This means that only the part of information that confirms existing beliefs, prejudices and political desire is preferred in a large flow of information. When you answered in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, you also said on several occasions that this is a matter of faith. You're 72 in 2048. Fantasise what you write to your memoirs about the procedure for this draft and what kind of pension these 36-year-olds are currently going to receive in the best working age in Estonia in 30 years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U23	Thank you. I'm sure I'm still fully employed when I'm 72 and I'm trying to work. So, no, no time for memoirs yet. I think that this cognitive bias is suffering not only from me but also from others during the debate on this reform package. I don't think there's anyone free from this sin in this hall, either side of the argument. And indeed, it is largely a matter of faith. This is the same subject that I have already touched on several times that we have a whole set of, well, they are called spectacular predictions, but they are not really forecasts, they are speculations about what happens or cannot. Some predictions go very far from each other, some others run together somewhere relatively close to each other. But there is one prophecy that is not much to argue about, and that is that by 2048, the pension system today, the second pillar, has not become equal in terms of contributions and payments. Even in 2048, we are working on this system and working on it, giving money to management companies in larger quantities and people getting back less. By then, 50 years have passed since the reform was launched, and then we are told that we will wait another 20 years and then it will work. Even with the prediction of increasing life expectancy, I don't think people are that patient. The Estonians are disgusting patient, but they are generally not so patient. I think that we should not focus on the prediction that will happen in 20 years' time or what will happen in 50 years' time, but ask what has happened in the last 18 years, in 17 years, when we have had this system. How does he work for us today? Is the way he works for us today what we were promised? Is that what the triggers of this system predicted back then? And the answer is no. No, it's not! Almost nothing of what was promised has really come true. At the time, we were told that by the middle of the 2020 period, the system would start operating as it should, more or less. Now we are told that we will wait at least another 25 years until the system is operational. Do we have to wait that long for that bluebird? Is this horizon just gonna get out of our way? I don't think that makes any sense. I think there are better ways to treat today's pensioners and future pensioners. There are, of course, two things that will help us increase our pension: more children and more wealth. And this reform will help.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U24	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U25	Thank you. Demographic changes are approaching basically like the law of nature and, thinking about them, our entire pension system has so far been built up. In European countries thinking about the future, it is generally prepared and labored. Our government seems to be struggling to leave the next generations with nothing. You are talking here about freedom of decision and different choices, but you are not telling me what these choices are, what you are proposing. There are basically three choices that you have put forward when you think about the future. First, a 30% lower pension. If you don't agree, there are two other options. It is either a very gruesome tax increase or a very large and exponential immigration to help older people in difficult circumstances out of the hole you dug. Which of these three options is what you recommend
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U26	Thank you. To begin with, I would say first of all that, yes, if we say that the European countries are thinking about the future, that is, of course, a good humor. They've come to the conclusion that there are no children anyway, we're borrowing until the loan is granted. That's a foreign concern, who pays the debt and where. Maybe some Muhamed will pay. They really import children that they do not want to receive and raise. Doesn't look like it's working. It doesn't look like their social system's working better for this. And, well, I don't know, we can ask the elderly in Greece or Italy or Spain how these empty jerks will be in the future. But they're not too happy right now. I do not agree and reject or deny the claim that the decrease will in any case be 30%. Once again, even if we do nothing, the substitution rate will fall. Even if we do nothing, the replacement rate will fall! He's close to 40% now, and he's starting to fall from there. Whether it falls to 35% or more, it doesn't know for sure, it depends on what input you put in it. But when you talk about what you are proposing to me about three choices: either higher taxes, large immigration or what the third one was, I don't remember just poverty, it's not really the case. Actually, there's a lot of other stuff. In fact, we look to the future and see that the average age is increasing, the number of years at work is increasing. We can see how automation or, say, the technological revolution comes and completely changes society, both how wealth is created and how wealth is spent and how it is divided. Society is not static. Make predictions on this today? Well, let's think about it with such a little humility if we make predictions here in 50 or 30 years. Let's think back to 30 years ago, think back to 50 years ago, think back to 1980. At that time, at the end of Brezhnev's term of office, did people plan for 2020, what would become of their pension or not, or what was the economic model? Well, I guess not. And even less in the 1960s. Or maybe this is how we put the question. I, although I was complimented here that I was a nice young person, still remember the beginning of the 1980s when I went to some pioneer event where Communism was about to be completed. Communism was about to come to an end! There were such dynamic predictions for the future. I still think we should be practical people and watch for the next five years. Let's look at the next five years, let's look at the next ten years. Let's see what's today. Let us look at what has happened to the pension system in the last five or ten years and operate within these limits. We operate within these limits of reality. Why are we living on a cloud line and discussing what happens to those children that half of the Estonians don't have anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U27	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You do not dare say with a loud voice that when this reform is launched, tax increases are inevitable and immigration is the same, because the number of people of working age is in any case decreasing. But I have not understood at all this volunteering. And if you had written in the draft explanatory memorandum that the substitution rate would increase, then obviously there would be more of those who would support this reform in this Chamber. But today, you're arguing about who's going to lose less. This is actually ridiculous in this context. Perhaps you would also enlighten those people who hope to be very rich and take out their pension savings now. How much money will they finally have if they pay all the taxes that the government has foreseen today? Is this tax limited to 20% or is it clearly higher at the end of the year? Why don't you do the math for the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U29	Thank you. I don't know what I'm supposed to say out loud, but the claim that pension reform will lead to tax increases and immigration, I'm laughing out loud. I'm gonna laugh. This isn't serious. And I don't know what I'm supposed to do in front of the board. As far as I know, we have the income tax rate as it is: 20%, it will not change. On the contrary, we have a draft right here in this Chamber, which makes certain advantages for giving birth at the end of the year when calculating the rate of income tax, and there are other smaller groups that have so far experienced unequal treatment. So when people take out their money, they pay income tax on it on condition that the money has been taken out up to five years before retirement age. It's in our bill. I hope Urmas Kruuse also read the explanatory statement. The bill states that until, let's say, retirement age and it's still been proposed minus five years of paid-out money has been taxed at 20% income tax. No other tax on it is free of charge, please help me if there's something hidden somewhere I don't know about. Of course, people also have to pay VAT or excise duty when they consume something, but that is something else. When you retire, you're retired, and you take that money out in a single portion, your income tax is 10%, which is a discount. This is a clear advantage, there is no such advantage at the moment. If you retire and withdraw your money in annuity payments, you will pay a tax of 0%. These are the rates, and they are designed to give people a signal that it is more reasonable to raise money for retirement and take it out in pieces. Anyone who doesn't want to do this takes that money out at once. Of course, we have different deposits of money collected, but the average amount that has been accumulated is about EUR 6000. The median is 4500 euros. And, of course, these amounts differ for very different reasons. For starters, this is because some of the people who have entered the system have had very little to collect, they can have very little money there. Above all, we are talking about young people here. But there are also older people who have either received very low incomes or have already retired, but have not yet taken it out, or whose collection period was very short, people who retired maybe 10 years ago and their collection period was short. There's all kinds of people out there. Those people who work abroad, for example, do not receive anything there; those who study there also do not receive anything there. In this sense, there are very different amounts of people in the second pillar of the pension. Each person will assess for himself whether he wants the amount he has there to grow and increase its return, or whether he wants to take it out and make some kind of expense, which he feels it will improve his wealth or his vitality at this stage of his life. That's the freedom we're giving him. But he has to do it knowing that his future pension is less than that. I'm sure that knowledge has to come along. That is what the explanatory memorandum also states here that choices must be disclosed to the public so that people know what is really behind these choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U30	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Have you thought about how to ensure equal treatment for those people who have raised more than EUR 10,000? It is known that they are allowed to withdraw money in three sections, but the cost of the fund may change in the meantime. It could be negatively affected. Is this situation equal for all?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U32	Thank you. It's true, that's what we've been talking about. But that's the nature of the second pillar, that the value of the fund changes over time, and it's also very nicely set out in the explanatory memorandum. At the moment a person makes an exit application from the fund, the fund may have one value, and at that point, for example, two or three months later, when he receives the money, the value may be different. This change may not be negative, it may also be positive. The value changes all the time, but the amplitude is probably not very high. Such volatility is inherent in the nature of the second pillar. Why is the EUR 10,000 limit drawn there? There's a very simple reason. Just as concerns have been voiced in this Chamber about the liquidity of our investment funds, about the freedom of action of investment funds, there is a certain ceiling in place so that, at the payout stage, this amount paid out would not be too burdensome for the management company. But those with this amount exceeding EUR 10000 are certainly not many. Now, if I remember by heart, I can take a closer look at it later, there are, I think, less than 20%. But what is the unequal treatment here, I do not understand. If a person gets his money and gets it for a rather short period of time, just a few parts, it is very difficult to find and, by the way, the same Varul's analysis has paid attention to this so-called defendant and how someone has been harmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U33	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that in the future, those who withdraw from the second pillar all the money collected during their work will receive a particularly small pension and spend it. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance's study says that those leaving the second pillar would be primarily middle and older people, people with lower levels of education and pay or not working. The question here is: how do you intend to mitigate the risk that in the future we will not have a large number of people who will not receive enough pensions to survive and who will have to live on social benefits? What are the solutions for people when possible negative consequences arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U35	Thank you. Yes, we have, of course, dealt with this issue as well. Special attention was paid to this when we worked out this bill, experts from the Ministry of Social Affairs. There is a problem, but this problem is not so much linked to the reform, but it is linked to the fact that we have many people working either black, working for a minimum wage or working for a very short time at all. The number of pensioners in general is not so high, but there are, of course, thousands of these people, and we have other social benefits to cope with these people. Now, in the course of this reform, there is no reason to fear that there will be a surge in the number of people falling below the minimum subsistence level. Again, if you want to make some kind of future predictions here, then the prediction of a future that is tangible is that next year, and this year, the basic part of the pension will rise. That is, coping with people who receive pensions will improve. It's the bottom end that's gonna heal. The pensions of those who receive the lowest pension will increase the most. That's what's totally tangible. All other predictions 30 years into the future about the fact that people are poor even then, well, I don't know, the poor have always been among us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U36	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! The advocates of pension reform emphasise in almost every speech that it is important that people's freedom and decision-making rights increase when planning their pensions and their living arrangements. I'm sure it's true. But my question has already sounded here in many different ways, especially from the mouth of Heljo Pikhof. However, I will come back to this topic, as the National Audit Office has also pointed out in its observations that your explanatory statement gives the impression that the change will be made, conscious of the risk that it may result in an increase in the number of people who will not receive enough pensions to live in the future. In that case, however, the whole of society has limited freedom and discretion. There are certainly always people who live well and receive a higher pension and are able to organise their lives, and there are those who do not. If the reform in the opinion of the National Audit Office may in some way increase this trend, then there is a great concern, even according to the sense of the member of the Reform Party. Perhaps you could point out in more detail the measures that could mitigate such risks, in addition to what you have already done in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U38	Please respect the time limit for honourable members of the Riigikogu. There is one minute for the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U39	Yeah, no, don't be shy! The Reform Party has many retired voters and you certainly need to explain to them why you are opposed to the possibility of raising your pension next year. I'm sure it needs to be explained. And it may also be necessary to explain to today's 30-year-olds that one or the other analysis has identified the risk of being poor when they retire. I think one of the biggest concerns that the people of Estonia have for those who are still working and are younger is that in their old age they fall sharply below the standard of living. It's a reality today. It is certainly not right or appropriate to give the impression that things are going well now and that if we do this reform, we will suddenly have an increase in poverty. This is definitely not adequate. I certainly recognise or commend the experts involved in the drafting of this law, as well as the groups outside who have given their input. Of course, I personally worked on this, and I repeatedly emphasised it, so that, at the time of this reform, we can map out all possible realistic risks, because if we do not map them, we cannot address them, we will not be able to mitigate these risks. Now, as really stated in this explanatory memorandum, there is a risk that there will be an increase in the number of people whose income or replacement rate is lower than now or a base scenario, but there is also a positive risk. The risk is both negative and positive. They're both marked, both risks are possible. Which one will come true? It is not the case that we do not have the means to deal with these risks today or next year, or in ten years' time, to mitigate these risks. Of course, we have the levers that we have today, as we do today, to exert ourselves to make sure that the pension is greater. They also exist in 20 years' time or in 10 years' time. If you ask me what needs to be done in Estonia to make the pension bigger both in the near future and in the distant future, I believe that two things are needed. Greater ivet is needed and a more productive economy is needed, both of which are priorities for this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U40	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U41	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! For years, many investment intermediaries have shown interest in using money from pension funds. There are also now ads that offer pensioners the opportunity to place their money. Judging by the benefits offered, some intermediaries are clearly villains. Has the government thought about looking into the background of investment intermediaries and possible measures to crowd out crooks, so that after the money is lost, the investigation will not be too late?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U42	Thank you. Yeah, but let's start at the other end. There you go. You yourself will see that, as a result of this reform, our people will be given every opportunity to invest in pensions. That's the point, life gets better. [[Voices in the hall.]] No, well, there's always been crooks in every society. I'm sure you all know how the law was introduced in Henry VIII, that pocket thieves were hanged, that public hangings were organised to discourage people, and that during hangings, pocket thieves roamed the audience and stole money from their pockets. There's been a lot of times. You must not, of course, fall asleep in the fight against fraud. After all, in recent years, in particular with regard to the fight against money laundering, we have been progressively strengthened and will be further strengthened in the coming years by both the Financial Supervision Authority and other public institutions dealing with such matters. I'm sure it's also an effective deterrent. But if necessary, I call on the members of the Riigikogu to add their proposals for tightening up the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U43	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U44	Thank you. Good waitress! You emphasise that people will have more freedom. But if you look at this bill, in fact, there is no more freedom in the case of pension investment accounts than there is in the case of pension funds. Well, maybe it's not really a man's freedom. It only happens when you withdraw the money, you pay the state a huge income tax on it, so you lose some of the assets, and then you go to the brokers that were discussed in the previous question. My question is, in fact, that, when this opportunity was advertised, it was said that all these people's savings are guaranteed and cannot be reversed. But when a person takes money out of a fund, it becomes the money in the account, which is the same as any other money in the account. Now give me a confirmation that the money he takes out has a guarantee and the creditor cannot take it away from him.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U45	Yes, thank you! Well, this huge income tax is exactly the same as any other income tax. There is no other rate of income tax on this money. Well, actually, there is, in case you take the money out later on on other terms, but income tax is still income tax. It is true that when a person withdraws money from the second pillar, it is the same as any other asset that does not have the same protection as that of a pension fund. In other words, if the full - timers are chasing a man, he is very likely not to withdraw his money at all. Although, I don't know, we don't have such statistics, there are people who don't work, as we often do, or who get paid blackly, or they don't have much to take out of that other pillar. This problem is likely to be real, but there are not many people who run into this real problem. Now the pension from the investment account. Indeed, it is structured precisely in such a way that it is subject to all the rules applicable to management companies. The difference is that, and with that, we are paying attention to one of the most acute criticisms of the entire collection of this second pillar, that you do not have intermediaries for an investment account, that you are the manager of the entire investment and that you are not paying anyone a commission as you currently pay fund managers. If you think you're a good investor and you can do it, you can put your money back and forth there, but if you don't think you can do it or it's too annoying, you can go back to some fund from your personal pension investment account and put the money back into the fund. Moving money like this costs nothing, a pension investment account is a matter within the second pillar. It's just like, let's say, your personal fund. And if you want to share your money between them so that one part of the money is in one fund and the other part is in another fund, the third part is in your personal account, in your pension account, it's possible. It is important, as is the case now, that one of these accounts, the account to which your monthly payment is due, is marked. So, in any case, freedom will increase. The fact that the invested, let's say, the securities or the things that are invested are regulated is regulated just like the funds that are regulated today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U46	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This legislative amendment will create a situation where future workers, or those who are still studying today, will also be held accountable. It is their duty to support pensioners at some point, and that means higher tax obligations, given that the number of labour market participants will then simply be lower demographically. You're probably having a hard time predicting right now, but maybe you've been thinking about what kind of taxes this generation of the future will have to pay. Can they do that, or can it, for example, be one of the reasons for leaving this country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U48	Thank you. No, well, we had a big debate here two weeks ago. You still have to ask the Centre Party what new, interesting taxes you have to come up with. The fact that today's students or today's children must support future pensioners is completely divorced or independent of what our pension system is like. It doesn't matter whether we have one, two, three or five pillars or not at all. During any regime and any economic system, it is the people who are working who support the old people. It was even in a feudal system like this. So it's actually a good rhetorical move to say think about the kids. But we are thinking about the kids. We're thinking about the kids! We give them freedom of choice. You do that today, you put the money here, you don't put the money here. In your 20s, you're gonna make life, you're gonna have children of your own, you need a home, you're gonna create a financial buffer, you're gonna get real estate. This is one part of the value at the end of your life, not the money paid into the fund pillar, which you do not see for 40 years, the rate of return of which has actually been 0.8%, and which, let's say, the actual earners are the same fund managers who earn more than twice as much from it as the pension payments themselves. I think selling a system like this is a lot of work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U49	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U50	Yes, thank you! Minister, thank you very much. It became clear today that you will only break up the pension system in order to increase the state budget receipts next year, at least that's what you said. No, it's not bad, the municipal elections are at the door. However, my question actually concerns the third pillar, because the amendments to the third pillar have also been discussed in connection with the dismantling of the pension system. What do you mean? What are you going to change and break?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U51	The changes to the third pillar in relation to the second pillar have been said in particular that, following this new reform, we will apply some similar tax cases or similar behaviour as is now characteristic of the third pillar. But there will be no fundamental changes in the third pillar with this reform. There's been a lot of talk about what to do with the third pillar, because it's one, let's say, let's keep it, not particularly aptite and not very widely used. Since, after this reform, the third and second pillars will become even more similar to each other, we may at some point have a practical reason to do something decisive with the third pillar either to turn it into something else, such as some kind of occupational pension scheme that has also been discussed, or to turn it into a pension collection scheme in which you can raise money in a different way and on other grounds, such as paying a higher percentage of your salary than you want. It's been mentioned, but it's not in this reform. However, I do argue that we are only reforming so that money can be spent in 2021 before the local elections. That's not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U52	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The previous composition of the Riigikogu adopted a legislative amendment that extended the investment restrictions of pension funds, and as a result investments made in Estonia started to grow on pension funds. This trend changed right after the pension reformer brigade brought the current bill here, and this trend has continued. I asked the same question in Question Time. Then LHV Pank was about to complete its only Estonian investment fund, which was merged with another fund. Today, it was announced that the pension funds did not participate in Coop Pank's IPO, as well, referred to the confusion about the pension reform. Of course, they asked about Coop Bank. In Question Time, you told me in response that you were doing this to ensure liquidity and that there could be disbursements. The question is whether this money, this 4.6 billion has been invested in the Estonian economy or outside Estonia. I'm asking if...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U54	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U55	... as the representative of the reformers of the pillar, you accept the fact that investments in pension funds are made outside Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U56	Yes, thank you! We actually have it in the explanatory memorandum; the investment numbers made in Estonia are written there. If I remember correctly, about 600 million investments have been made in Estonia. Now, there are two different issues: the nature and liquidity of investments. In the case of liquidity, indeed, as I said at least in the Commission, the first thing is that the Financial Supervision Authority has carried out stress tests and they do not see a liquidity problem with funds. However, to achieve this, far over half of the people should go at once and withdraw money from the pillars. This can be prevented or, let's say, solved in such a way that, for a period of time, distributions are stopped until the assets have been sold out, not at a quick rate, but at a reasonable price, and then pay out again. This is an opportunity that still exists. We have also discussed this in order to provide a larger amount of liquidity credit to management companies. This is not included in this bill, because it is something that we believe could be debated during the readings of the Riigikogu, because it has its own risks or negative aspects. What has been said and proposed, but also what is not included in this bill, is the opportunity not to pay out the money, but to give out the money, using it as a pledge. There is such a serious way of saying it in itself, the arguments against it, and these arguments have also sounded in this Chamber. In that case, we'll open up the money in the fund, take off the protection he's got right now against all kinds of claims in general. Well, if we say the bank can cover its claims on this account, but for example, a real estate agent or a maintenance agent cannot, then it is very difficult for us to explain why this is the case. That's the argument right there. I have talked to LHV quite several times and the Banking Union has been spoken to in Estonia. As far as liquidity is concerned, we do not see a critical problem. As far as these critical problems have been, we think that we have actually been able to alleviate or solve them. Now, when it comes to investments, there is just one simple thing to understand when it comes to investments. You brought it to your attention. Two years ago, and I myself supported this bill in exactly the same way at the time, the rules, the investment rules, were changed. This was followed by a change in investment policy. No one can assume that the investment environment, the investment rules are time-changing. Investors must take it into account that the rules also change. The reason why we introduced a 10-year freezing period in the draft is precisely to create some stability in the existing system. Once that first-wave money has gone out, people have left the system, some kind of wave has gone over, those who remain there will not make any sudden changes and the market will adapt to it will take this into account. Does this change the nature of investments, the length of investments? Of course. It is likely to be adapted, different strategies will be found, and banks will come up with different investment products. But that's what normal capitalism is. If anyone thinks that we have to guarantee the investment institutions a cash flow at national level, because it will make it easier for them to invest, then I disagree. And I would point out that, of course, we will be able to have a heart attack if one or the other fund has been merged with another fund or if one or the other share offer has not been as successful as they were wanted, but if we look at the overall volume of investments in Estonia, these numbers are still small. They may be something that will tell interested people some story, but I do not see that they will change the big picture of the Estonian economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U57	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U58	Thank you very much. Estonia's 1.3 million population has 910000 ethnic Estonians; the rest are representatives of other nationalities. In turn, about 200,000 Estonians live abroad. If taxpayers are missing and the tax increase is not real, would it be an option to increase immigration limits? That's one question. Given the demographic forecasts, this question will soon arise, which smells of ethnic disaster in Estonia. Or is it more meaningful to do everything possible, including maintaining the second pillar in its former form, to bring as many Estonians living abroad back to their historic homeland as possible? We can see they're coming from Finland already.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U59	Thank you. Yes, I too share my concern about the Estonian nation state so that the Estonian people would be dominant here and that our population would grow rather than decrease. I fully agree that this should be a clear argument for considering all political initiatives. However, I would point out that in today's pension system, one of the last decisions of the Reform Party's government was to relax immigration rules and as a result we have had a surge in immigration over the last two years, particularly from Slavic areas, i.e. Ukraine. In this connection, we have temporary work permits plus fixed-term work permits reached the amount that could last be observed during Brezhnev's time. Maybe all of this, immigration as a threat and when the economic press exists already, even before this government started making pension reforms. With this to scare you, well, I can't tell. Isn't that a little bit like seeing things through the rearview mirror?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U60	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Your father called members of the Riigikogu brain-dead society the week before last. I must admit that, indeed, in the case of this draft, I do not understand what problem today's government is trying to solve. And now to the question. You have said many times today that the main aim of breaking the second pillar is to give people freedom to decide their finances. By abandoning the second pillar, they actually have the right to decide over 2% of their salary, which, regardless of the size of their salary, is not a particularly high amount and freedom to decide. My question is whether there is anything else positive that will result from breaking the second pillar. And I'm asking you to answer in a very simple and understandable way!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U62	Thank you. I would say that I like to have a debate here, and I think it helps everyone to explain their political positions better. And we don't have to come to an agreement, that's not necessary, we have votes. But if you ask... [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, I'm about to get an answer. You're asking me what kind of problem we're solving. I actually described this problem before, but I'm going to redefine it to make it clear to everyone what kind of problem we're going to solve. The state of Estonia collects taxes on social tax is one of the largest taxes , takes 316 million and gives to the banks. Banks take 40 million of it and write it as income and pay 15 million a year to people, by 50 euros. If you feel that this is a solution that will help us prevent poverty in the future, we will see things as differently as we can see them. As I may have said in Question Time, it depends on the point of view whether you are the giver of this money or the recipient of this money. All your arguments come from the beneficiary's point of view, but my arguments are from the money provider's point of view. Excuse me, what was the other half of the question? [[M. Networker's explaining.]] But we're not gonna break it! How do we break the system? We're making the system flexible. The system will remain. A person who is now a member of the second pillar and does not do anything about it will remain there until his retirement. We're not breaking anything. The second pillar will remain. That statement is, I'd say, total drama.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U63	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U64	Mr. Helme! The Minister of Finance should not treat the Riigikogu as a rogue; he should give honest answers. You mentioned a rear-view mirror here once, and earlier you said that the system couldn't get any better because it wasn't good before. If we look out of the windshield, the system really needs to be completed in 40 years for the individual and to produce about 30% higher pensions. These are the variables we know. This is due to the higher savings, otherwise it wouldn't have been, because it's because of demographics, and it's also because of productivity. What do you see in the rearview mirror? Tell me what you see in the rearview mirror! Why has this system actually produced only 0.8%? However, this is far more than human alternatives, much more. It's more than inflation. Tell me why this rear view has been so negative. Have you ever even analyzed it for talking about it all the time? What's 17...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U65	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U66	... during the years had these problems that the rate of return had not been higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U67	Mr. Ligi, that's enough!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U68	Thank you. Yeah, well, that's such a nice thing that I've asked and asked and asked and didn't get an answer. For example, the same Eesti Pank would also like us to have an analysis. We've been asking you to do an analysis for these 17 years. Well, they haven't been able to do it! And I'd still reprimand that I don't need to put words in my mouth. I haven't said I can't get any better because I haven't been good before. That's not the kind of words I've used. I have said that we can make different predictions, but it is more adequate and rational to look at what has happened so far. On this basis, we will also be more adequate to make future predictions. This does not mean that the situation cannot get any better. As Aivar Sõerd pointed out, the laws that have actually changed dynamics have been amended. Now 30%. I would say that this 30% is exactly backwards in this conversation or in this debate. What I have calculated, and which some other people, observers, have calculated, is that because we take away a large proportion of the social tax we have received and put it in the second pillar, which has not yet started to produce anything back, today's pensions are 20 to 30% lower. Today's pensions in the first pillar are smaller because we are now paying into this second pillar, so-called feeding or salting in this new system that will be producing back in 40 years. Actually, this 30% is exactly backwards. Your rhetoric is that we have less, but actually it's the other way around. Thanks to the launch of the second pillar and the infinite launch of the second pillar, this is the kind of system that we keep pouring into in the hope that it will finally start to run, it has reduced the volume of the first pillar by 30%, maybe 20%. It depends again on where you put the starting point in the calculation or how you calculate it. So that Jürgen Ligi wouldn't be quite disappointed in my answer to the question, why it's been working badly, well, there are a number of different reasons. Of course, we all understand that there are negative interest rates, which are unprecedented in the global economy. They have an impact not only on pension funds, but on the entire banking sector, on the financial sector as a whole. Of course, we know that the biggest recession or crisis in Estonia's history, the biggest post-war crisis in Europe, remained at the heart of the pension reform. Undoubtedly, these are things that cannot be rejected; they have had an impact. But I would put another very important thing on the side here. This is a system where the "service provider" has not had to work hard because you cannot go anywhere from this service provider. You're in there with your money on skin and hair and that's it. There was no need for effort. And then, when the opportunity was given, we saw that it got better. But we will also take this next step and give them a reason to work even harder. I'm sure you'll notice that it gets better. Production improves, conditions improve, list of services offered, nomenclature, improves. It's getting better!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U69	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'd still like to get back to my first question. Of course, it is quite spectacular to compare Coop Pank and Uber's IPO with a similar volume and almost one volume. However, the fact is, once again, that pension funds participated less actively in Coop Pank's IPO than in the case of the Port of Tallinn, for example. Once again, the reason is very clear and clear, and they themselves have also said it, the reform of the second pillar of the same pension. Moreover, they have said directly to Swedbank, LHV and SEB that the investments made by these pension funds in the Estonian economy will decrease. As of today, they have indeed been done, you rightly mentioned the size of 600 million, 590 million euros. Yeah, if today's money is available everywhere, maybe it's not a problem, but it won't last forever. At one point it is harder to get money from the outside, which means it's gaining weight. Perhaps, in fact, we will continue to brake the development of equity. Why are you doing this? I don't understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U71	Thank you. Yeah, here's what I'd like to say. A finger in the direction of a cartel agreement. It is a very slippery way for banks to decide, on behalf of political statement, all together to make an investment strike in order to show their attitude. Dangerous-dangerous stuff! But I would make a very clear distinction. There is no reason for banks to refrain from investing in financial assets, apart from taking a political position. Let's get out of here. It's a very liquid asset, isn't it? I understand when they say they don't want to invest in some big infrastructure object anymore. The arguments are understandable to me. But not investing in financial assets is a political pose. Shame on them!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U72	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U73	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The fact that you do not understand investment and the functioning of the investment markets has already become clear in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the previous response has confirmed this. That you don't share math, you've said it in public. And frankly, it's funny if you use the word 'probably' and talk about what you do when you're 72 years old. I could also say with regard to your opinion that this is pure speculation, as you say with regard to forecasting and forecasts. Forecasts are assumptions based on available information. Yeah, they're not sure, but people are making decisions based on the information they have. My question is this: if you talk about what you think is better in the future, how can you still be sure you're still working when you're 72? I say it's pure speculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U74	Thank you. Of course it's pure speculation, of course you can't be sure. It is a pity that we are not all financial specialists and financial institutions, and we are not all fighting as passionately for the continued flow of money from financial institutions as the questioner has just fought, but some of us are also fighting for the public interest. But the assumptions made on the basis of the information we have are nice. But in that case, I want to see what the information is, what the conjecture is about. If there's information in there that helps tilt the answer in the direction they want to tilt, then we're back where we were when we talked about cognitive tilt with Urve Tiidu. All of these projections, which exclude a whole range of possibilities and assume a whole range of other options, well, in their case, we are in exactly the same situation as whether we believe them or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U75	Does Maris Lauri have a procedural question? [[???Martin Helme: 'No ikka, jah.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U76	The Minister has made me very clear that I am fighting not for the Estonian state, but for someone else...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U77	Yes, it is! I say the minister either apologizes or proves this accusation with some facts.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U78	Thank you. This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U79	This is not a procedural question. The right to reply shall be provided when someone is mentioned during the presentations and not in the round of questions. Thank you. Let's go! Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U80	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Mr. Minister! To be honest, I'm a little bit sorry to hear that we have a person on the remote who is fighting not for the public interest, but largely at the height of a wave of populism. That's not the public interest you're fighting for right now. You are fighting for people to have lower pensions in the future. This is shown in the explanatory memorandum to your own draft, and any logic suggests that if we reduce the collection or allow people to withdraw what they have already collected, then the later total amount will be less than if they continue to collect. But my question is actually a lot easier. My question concerns the concerns of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs regarding the constitutionality of this draft. If it turns out now that this bill will be adopted, but it is contrary to the Constitution and it will also find proof, will you resign?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U81	Thank you. Why would I resign? Yes, I have also heard a great rumor about the Riigikogu, known to be full of rumours, that the Reform Party promised to support the election of the President in new elections if the President did not declare this law. Exciting! We'll see. This is exactly the same as the pension reform, and we will find out afterwards how it was. I wouldn't be opposed to public interest and populism. What makes you think they don't overlap? I know that 'populism' should be a bad word, but I don't see any charge in using it. As long as you don't throw me in the rose bush, all right? I don't see any conflict between them. That is ultimately the concern of the people. But what I object to and have repeatedly argued against is the claim that this reform will result in a reduction in pensions. The fact is... Well, that's not quite a fact, but all forecasts, which are in any way quantifiable, even through surveys, say that there are more people leaving the second pillar than there are members of the second pillar, even though there may be a certain number of entrants, and that the number of entrants is likely to be more among those whose income is higher. This is all logical and understandable, which means that the concern that the pillars are immediately running completely out of money is, as I have said, overdramatized. But if the number of leavers is more or more precise, if the amount of money coming out is higher than the amount of money coming in, then it is clear that already in 2021 the amount of social tax will be higher. Whether this 'greater' is 70 million or 120 million, this is what we will generally learn in August next year. It is also quite clear from the political agreement that the first pillar pension, the basic part of the pension, will be increased immediately by the social tax received. In other words, it is absolutely clear that pensions will increase, increase immediately, in a tangible future. What you're saying, maybe in 30 years, it won't come out again, okay? We'll see it in 30 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U82	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, I understand that you are a little overcooked in this hour and a half, but I want to remind you that at the opening session held in this Chamber, the President told us that this remote control, where you are standing now, will be spoken to the entire Estonian people. And I would very much ask that you do not accuse the members of the Riigikogu personally or by political parties completely unjustly and arbitrarily. What was I gonna ask you? If the pension funds are guaranteed through the Guarantee Fund at the first EUR 10000 at 100% and the rest at 90%, can the pension investment account, in which case the person can make investment decisions, be secured in any way through the Guarantee Fund? I technically of course do not understand how the Guarantee Fund should human...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U84	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U85	Well, first of all, for the comment that yes, the word is free and from this remote control, well, I don't have the fashionable sweats that would have come here with them today, I think we have the opportunity to have a debate of very different styles. It has already been pointed out here that the chairman of our party has his style, I have a slightly different style, but when people come and I can't tell you how stupid I am, I have a certain right to question their motives, too. I don't have to apologize for that. That's right. But as far as the Guarantee Fund is concerned, the pension fund is subject to exactly the same rules as the rest of the funds. So if they have a guarantee from the Guarantee Fund, that's the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U86	...to pay for your investments. Is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U87	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U88	Thank you. Once again, Minister! What is the most important science-based argument for you as Minister for Public Finances, I stress, a science-based argument, to undertake the reform or destruction of the second pillar? It is well known, for example, that in a number of Eastern European countries where such a compulsory pension pillar used to be and was abolished in the course of the reform, it has actually started to recover quickly. What is this science-based argument for you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U89	Thank you. You see, with this reform of the second pension pillar, it is a value-based reform. In the event of a value-based reform, we can look for and find The Ministry of Finance ordered one from Varul's office, for example, which made it very clear that there was no constitutional breach. In short, such documents can, of course, be added here, and they certainly help to fill in this debate, but the debate itself is of a value-based nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U90	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U91	Thank you. Good waitress! Since you indicated here in one of the previous replies that Eesti Pank has failed to carry out its analysis and that this analysis is not available, let it be a mere reminder that some of the paragraphs quoted or some extracts have been provided. First of all, Eesti Pank has said that the pressure to increase taxes will increase in the future by breaking the second pillar. Eesti Pank has also said that the social problems involved are accompanied by slower long-term economic growth. It has also been said that pension funds can no longer support Estonian companies. It is all written in a very thorough and detailed analysis of Eesti Pank. Now, since you have repeatedly argued here on the remote, as if the amount of future pension paid was not somehow dependent on breaking the second pillar, I am asking you well: do those people who withdraw from the second pillar as a result of the change that you encourage, in future, have a higher or lower pension compared to those who continue to collect into the second pillar?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U92	Thank you. When starting from the back, whether the pension is higher or lower depends on the person's decisions. The key to this reform is that a person has to make his own choice, decide how he spends the money, what he does with his life, whether he makes investments and what such investments are or spends the money on the run. What he stands for at the end of his working life depends on his own choices. And it's perfectly clear, I suppose that it's perfectly clear to all of us that there are people like that and there are people like that. There are those whose investments are thought out, whose working life has favoured the collection and who are better. But there are definitely people who aren't better. And I'm sure there are people who don't really make a difference. This is the moment of freedom I keep stressing. Now, as far as Eesti Pank's analysis is concerned, of course I have been familiar with it and, of course, I do not agree with many of the arguments put forward in it. What I talked about earlier was the question of where Eesti Pank's analysis of compliance with the pension reform promises made in 2002 and why these promises have not been fulfilled. This is what Jürgen Ligi asked me: why did it go as it did? This analysis has not yet been provided by anyone, although it has been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U93	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You'll probably have to read a few more documents from the Ministry of Finance, then you can tell me that there are some things that still exist. Maybe you just haven't read them and that's why you're saying they don't exist. This also concerns this analysis by the Ministry of Finance itself. But if I get it right now, you said this way that those who leave the pillar and take the money out, their first pillar will be smaller in the future, or thinner. What should their new rate of return be to compensate for what is smaller in the first pillar and justify reform, earning at least as much or more? I do not know where your belief comes from that if a person is going to invest small sums alone, his cost of managing this money in order to get a higher return is more positive or less than the current charges that you have criticised. In my opinion, you've overlooked this take-off moment, or...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U95	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U96	... the start-up period for the fund has not been as long as for other, old European countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U97	Thank you. There must be some documents at the Ministry of Finance that I haven't been able to read. Some time ago, a paper was brought to me there asking for permission to destroy half the archives. I didn't sign this. But now for productivity. No, it's the wrong starting point that if we take money out of the second pillar, someone should compensate for something because the contribution to the first pillar was smaller in the period when you had the second pillar. When you get out of the second pillar and your payments start to go all the way back to the first pillar, you've got a small hole in the first pillar, right, and that's your first pillar smaller. But in the meantime, you've gotten a second pillar asset. There's no other system that has to compensate for that hole, because you've already taken it out. It's been your decision and your choice, and no one has to compensate for it. What you do with that money will depend on your wisdom. I'm not saying that people are smarter than investment bankers, I'm saying that some people just don't want to give their money to an investment banker. Let's let them decide that. Yeah, the third pillar is one way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U98	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U99	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! First of all, I will present a picture of such a rear-view mirror in the explanatory memorandum to this same draft was produced in Table 4 on page 96. The calculations presented there show very clearly that the 17-year period of entry into the second pillar, regardless of the size of the income, has had a positive impact on the size of the pension compared to the fact that the same person would not have raised money in the second pillar and would have remained only in the first pillar. Consequently, I have a simple preconceived question: why does the government offer pensioners a lower choice than the current system, i.e. a smaller pension in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U100	Yeah, that's an awesome table, I'm into it. Thank you. We don't offer any less choice. We offer people the chance to do what they want. If people think and believe it's better, they always have that chance. But maybe some people don't want it. Some people say I want to live richer when I'm young, beautiful, and smart, and I don't care what happens to me. We let people like that do their thing. That's the whole point of freedom. Of course, for this table, I would say that there are so many assumptions here that I don't know if I'm going to bother you with the reading that you're going to have in here by the way, by the way, by the third and the third, that if we even or any of these assumptions here... Oh, no, that's not the table! I'm sorry! This is the assumption of a rear-view mirror. There was an assumption of a forward mirror, too. Those numbers, yes, of course, can be provided. But I'm also pointing out these percentages, what's the difference between the percentages. One variant has 1.4% and 1.9% and 2.5% of this is the difference that comes in. Is this the great wealth or the great poverty you're talking about here? I'm not sure this game deserves candles.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U101	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U102	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. The problem of placing pension funds in the Estonian economy has been at the top since the pension reform. I'm sorry if I didn't notice in the explanatory statement, but has the government been doing some kind of calculation? What are the potential shares, securities and other instruments that the Estonian economy offers to pensioners? What could be the amount that the Estonian economy is prepared to accept? Otherwise, the exact same thing that happened to pension funds happens: money goes abroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U103	Yeah, it is. Thank you for your question. I'll read it. So, on the Nasdaq Baltic Stock Exchange, 33 companies' shares are listed on the main list, 28 companies' shares are listed on the additional list and 7 companies' shares are listed in First North. Corporate bonds are 43, government and central bank bonds 26, First North has bonds 7. It's the pre-heated stuff you can invest in right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U104	Does Jürgen Ligi have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U105	Yeah, I have a procedural question. I've had to lie to the Minister of Finance here for a long time. Tell me, how can I get this? For example...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U106	Thank you. This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U107	For example, on 7 December...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U108	Let's keep going. Signe Stone, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U109	Thank you, Head of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. You have the votes together, as you have confirmed, and the aim is to enforce the law and implement it in 2021. We certainly have a different understanding of the future, and there may be a different understanding of the future, of what will happen, as you emphasised, as a result of this value-based reform in 50, 20 or 30 years' time. But I'm interested in your personal schedule. At what point in time can you say and confirm that this reform has succeeded or could happen that it has failed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U110	Yeah, thanks! We even have in the explanatory memorandum that the evaluation of this reform will take place in 2023, which is a period that is entirely there. I do not dare to tell you what these meters are or exactly how this assessment is going, but it is clear that, if we are honest now, the next elections will have to take responsibility for it anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U111	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U112	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Indeed, as Signe said here before, in some ways I am even surprised that you took so long to answer these questions. You stressed that the voices were together, and you didn't care about the debate. You also have no interest in the information that should get out of this remote control to the public before those people who, as a result of your reform, would have to take this personal responsibility if they decided to handle their own money. I have a very simple question. Maybe you could help me. Please tell us how many Estonian schools our students are able to acquire financial literacy today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U113	Thank you. I really can't answer that question. I guess there are schools. My own two daughters are studying in upper secondary school with an economic cost and can, I think, talk about these things at the level of the average member of the Riigikogu. But I don't know how many schools still offer this education.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U114	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. What is the action plan if it turns out that at some point there are no insurance companies on the market willing to offer statutory pension contracts?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U116	Thank you. This is an important part of the draft, which is a small number of contracts. As I said in the introductory speech, there are around 8 000 of them and these amounts are not very large, but indeed, for these contracts, the situation is different from that of the rest of the pension funds. Since these agreements are different in nature or character, the reform also regulates them differently. It's like by May next year, I'll tell you by memory, maybe it was June, but I guess it was May, the insurance companies will have to ask their clients whether they want to continue with their contracts or not to continue with annuity payments. It's a one-time question, and people can't change their minds afterwards. If, as a result, insurance companies consider that their so-called business model is no longer viable due to the excessive number of departures, they will transfer both assets and contracts to the State in January next year and will pay out the pension fund, with the so-called money coming from these insurance companies. But all of this may not happen. If there are few insurance companies leaving, or if the societies consider that cash flow is sufficient for them and is consistent with their business model, this may not be the case. It also mitigates the risk that insurance companies would say that they had a certain legitimate expectation and had some kind of long-term contracts covered. They will also be able to cancel agreements for their part for the so-called state.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U117	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, one small reference: The website of the Ministry of Finance, or your own government ministry, provides an analysis of the past performance of the second pillar on 7 December 2018. You can read it there. But now I'm going to go to my question, which is actually the same thing I asked before, but which I didn't get an answer to. All I found out was that it was drama. However, experts have said in the explanatory memorandum to the second pillar that those leaving the second pillar will receive fewer pensions in the future. If they receive less pensions due to leaving the second pillar, it is likely that the state will have to contribute more to the first pillar and that the state's costs will increase, i.e. there will be a high probability that taxes will have to be increased. My very simple question is: what other positive things are in this reform besides what you are always saying is that it is giving people freedom? What is positive about the people of Estonia, what is positive about this country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U119	Thank you. I'm familiar with this analysis on the Ministry of Finance page. I know very well that they are talking about what productivity has been like over the last 17 years. But that is not what we have asked for: how does the current pension system work compared to what was promised in its time? It's not the same thing. They say what has happened, but what was promised at that time and what has been achieved today has not been analysed. It's not the same thing. Now, first of all, I'd ask you, what more do you need? A more effective reason than that we're increasing freedom? I'd say that's enough reason. But if that is not enough for you, then next year we will also raise the pension on its own is enough reason. And thirdly, I would like to comment on the claim that people leaving the second pillar are a negative risk and are going to receive a lower pension. There's a chance they're going to get a much bigger pension. None of these calculations takes into account the fact that people have other economic assets outside the pension payment, some net value affected by the pension pillar reform decision, the decision to withdraw funds from the second pillar. This value shall not be calculated or taken into account for any forecast. But it certainly provides an opportunity for a very large number of people to be positively affected by this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U120	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U121	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have repeatedly emphasised today the word 'freedom of choice'. Yeah, I agree. But with all freedom comes responsibility. There are a lot of people in Estonia who can be said to be people with financial risk behaviour. They're people who survive their abilities and who have got themselves into high-speed debt. It is most likely that they will be the ones who will withdraw the second pillar money and spend it immediately. As a result, when they reach pensionable age, they are the ones who, with their hands on the right, expect income support from the state. Nothing convinces me that it is these people who become successful investors overnight. What is the basis on which you and the government believe that these people will act wisely and invest their money out of the second pillar?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U122	No, we are not saying that people who are casino addicts or drug addicts will become good investors. That's a claim I don't think anyone's made anywhere. We are still talking about the majority of this society, those who act responsibly, work hard, plan their future and want greater decision-making and greater freedom in planning this future. Freedom and decision-making must go hand in hand. I built a house in the country and occasionally invited a worker named Urmas to help me. Urmas was the kind of man I don't think has worked a day to pay taxes. He doesn't really care what happens to his retirement. After working three or four days, he and his friends went somewhere to relax from his hard work. Of course, when he finally reaches retirement age, he's gonna get the smallest, most difficult pension, but he's gonna get used to a little time in his life. It is about the substitution rate and everything we do with people who don't think about their own future. What are we gonna do with them? Let's do exactly what we're doing today: no starvation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U123	Thank you, Mr President. The previous question, of course, raised the question that, Mr Minister, would you honestly tell us whether you have paid your Juhan or what his name had paid black. But my question is actually about something else. If the bill for breaking your pension system goes through purely hypothetically, then the weakest will actually lose. Indeed, they will only rely on this first pillar and, as we know from history, the Centre Party, the EKRE and all others have promised a constant increase in pensions, with all this pension increase focusing only on the first pillar. Already today, about 80% or a little more of the budget expenditure has been earmarked in advance...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U124	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U125	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U126	...and about 20% is where investments can be made, roads can be built into four lines, etc. Don't you think that kind of...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U127	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U128	... conduct is risky and disastrous in relation to the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U129	Yeah, well, I'm not asking my workman if he's gonna file a tax return or not. It's still his job to declare his income. Now, as far as risky behaviour is concerned, let us start even further than the fact that the EKRE and the Centre Party have promised an increase in pensions. I have vividly remembered one of the commercial clips Ansip was standing in the elevator and gave the pensioners a double guarantee. I guess all political parties are worried that pensioners have a decent income. I can't even imagine us blaming each other for this. But I certainly do not accept the disastrous investment policy of the Estonian state. I don't even understand how it can be presented like this. We are now doing a pension reform that increases the income of the first pillar, increases people's freedom of decision, makes people more responsible for their own lives, for planning their own incomes. Once again, it is a little amazing for me how the party that thinks it's liberal is arguing against it the most fiercely.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U130	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U131	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! I would say that I am amazed at your confidence in the success of the pension reform or the second pillar reform, the expectation that, after the second pillar has been released, people's income or the first pillar pension will increase even though international experience is not supported. But what I'm asking you is, if people's freedom of choice is increased and the pension for the first pillar is increased, why is this freedom of choice even needed? And secondly, if people have to make responsible choices, is this bill intended to provide them with appropriate training, to inform them about what their choices really are?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U132	Thank you. Overall, a meaningful public debate should be the best trainer of people in the world. That's exactly what we're doing here today. Someone asked me why I bothered to answer for so long. But because I think it needs to be chewed out. I really think that all our voters, or the entire Estonian public, must mimic the nuances of this debate: what is the result of one or the other decision for him personally or, I do not know, for the state budget. Yes, we can argue about this here and disagree with one or another argument and with any forecasts or predictions, but it needs to be discussed, because that is how we educate the public. Did anyone ask 17 to 18 years ago when the previous pension reform was carried out, whether people were ready for it and if their awareness was sufficient? As far as I can remember, the TV was just showing athletes lying in a hammock under a palm tree and saying it was. I guess this education, by the way, is also being done by financial institutions, which are going to offer investment products to people and to have their own educational talk, sales talk, talk. That's how he's supposed to be. I refuse to accept the assumption that people are stupid, that they don't understand much when it comes to their own money, what they do to them. I'm not really going along with that argument. If there's people's money in it, they'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U133	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U134	Mr. Minister! I will not ask you what your relationship is with your builder or the IRS, even though the IRS is under your command. I will pick up where I left off my first question, or rather where you did not respond to the legal background of the draft. I did not find much in-depth legal analysis in this explanatory memorandum, but I found doubts and doubts in both the constitutionality of the draft and in other respects. If one draft comes to Parliament without planning and proper preparatory work, including impact analyses, it would make sense that this draft does not actually get here. So how is it now that you're only sticking to values? I am not going to ask that if your value were, for example, to restore the death penalty, then whether it would also be a value-based debate in this House or not. Maybe you'll still...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U135	Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U136	... you reply to when legal analyses of this draft will be presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U137	It was not possible to add legal analysis to this draft because we could only order legal analysis on a document approved by the government and sent to the Riigikogu in this order. I am not sure whether the legal analysis has already gone up to the Ministry of Finance by this day, but TGS Baltic has done us an analysis that summarises this: 'As a result of the reform of the savings pension, it is extremely unlikely that public claims will be paid. This would be a claim for compensation for damage caused by a legislative act on the basis of § 14 of the State Liability Act, the presumption of which is very limited. It is therefore debatable whether the constitutional rules are directly applicable and whether the conflict with the Constitution could constitute a significant breach of the duty of the legislator. Moreover, in the case of those rules which may potentially fulfil the above criteria, in particular as regards equal treatment and the violation of the vacatio legis principle, it is also questionable whether the persons are particularly belonging to the group of victims and whether they are subject to a proven loss as a result of the reform. Private claims can be made against the State if the State has entered into a private obligation and the State acts in a private relationship if it does not exercise public authority and there is no relationship of subordination between the parties. In theory, the existence of such claims against the State is not excluded, but in the circumstances currently known, we did not identify such claims. ' These are the fundamental positions that we asked for from outside as an expert, and I very much hope that they will also be available to the public as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U138	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U139	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I really like that you answer for a long time. If everything you're saying is true, then it's great. But I'm not so sure about that last one. There are probably other economic people in this hall, and I don't think I'm one of them. But I now have a few questions, which do not even concern this analysis, the legal analysis that you had done, but how you still think it is not unequal treatment when you look at people who are only in the first pillar and those who are also in the second pillar. I found out in the coalition agreement that you have the fact that those who leave the second pillar must be treated in a similar way to those who have not joined the second pillar. Those who have only collected shares linked to the first pillar and dependent on wages cannot access their paid-up 4% social tax either at retirement age or before retirement age. How does it fit into your logic that they are equal treatment? And another comment...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U140	Time's up, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U141	You see, I didn't! There's another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U142	Yeah. But you yourself, in principle, pointed out that there is no equal treatment now. People are still treated unequally today. There are some who are in both the second and the first pillars, and there are those who are only in the first pillars. In addition, those who are only in the first pillar are treated differently depending on when they are joined and how their units are accounted for. There is still no equal treatment. At least my view, a fully convinced view of this is not now just a bravuring exercise, it is that if we create opportunities for exiting the pillar and joining this pillar, people like me who did not join in my own time cannot join now, but in the future, opportunities, equal opportunities will certainly expand. That's the way I see it. That's the way I see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U143	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U144	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You realize, after all, that the introduction of such Urmas enhances class hatred in society. This increases the hatred of people like Urmas in retirement for people like me who have been working for 40 years today, and all these 40 years also paid taxes against people like me. But my question is actually that you are only talking about freedom, but you are not talking about responsibility at all. Will the state and government also take responsibility for advising these people? The question is, what kind of counselling services the government has planned to help people who are going to make decisions about their pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U145	Thank you. Yeah, class rage is a very bad thing, I totally agree. I must say, as far as I know, the above gentlemen have never been to the vote, which is a serious problem. But I think I've been talking about responsibility here the whole time. All I do is talk about responsibility. But now I want to say that the Minister of Social Affairs Kiik is more able to answer this question, because they have planned a number of activities at the Social Insurance Board: telephones and some calculators and various other explaining things like this. And we have also talked about the fact that once the reform has been adopted, perhaps we will also have some public information campaigns. If you can see that there is a need for this, it is certainly possible to do so, which is quite a small cost of this reform. That certainly is not out of the question. Some things are already planned anyway. I am not familiar with the details that the Social Insurance Board has planned to do, but as far as I can remember, there have certainly been at least two things that have been discussed. These are the helpline, adding this theme to the list of frequently asked questions, calculators and other things. Surely, people must be helped to get as clear a picture as possible in this rather complex mess of very weighty decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U146	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U147	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm gonna ask you this time in the key to freedom of choice. If I understand correctly, you said that if a person invests in an investment account or a pension using an investment account, interchange fees are not to be paid. All right! But please give an example of what the costs of investing themselves are and what are the options if a person wants to invest 90 euros each month on his/her own, that is about an average wage recipient's payment to the second pillar fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U148	Thank you. I cannot give these examples because I have not dealt with it myself. What may have to be clarified is that we do not pay the fees of fund managers. In any case, all interchange fees or other charges for investment production are available, but they are also available to the funds, and they are not available to the funds either. So these fees are anyway, and then there's the fund manager's fee. This one at least disappears. But how do you invest 90 euros? This is a matter of taste, frankly: who wants to buy gold, I am not sure that gold can be purchased with a penson investment account, who wants to buy bonds. I used to count a bunch of different bonds, different listed shares. I guess there's a lot of investment instruments. A person has to think for himself how long he wants to hold a position and how much risk he wants to take.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U149	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U150	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! For the last two hours, you've been in a pretty good mood here, and you've been talking about answers. Unfortunately, there are not many answers in substance. It seems to me that, as Minister of Finance, you should be a little more concerned, and I hope that deep down you are. I read in the explanatory memorandum the purpose of the bill, which fits into one sentence. This is very simple: make compulsory funded pension optional. Is it really about taking state responsibility for our people when the purpose of the law is to make compulsory funded pension schemes voluntary? I understand that it is the task of the state to ensure that people can cope with dignity during old age, and this draft, when it becomes a law, certainly does not guarantee it to all parties. This morning in the Committee on Social Affairs, I asked whether the costs that the future would entail for society had been calculated. Not next year or the year after, but in the distant future, when we have to support the elderly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U151	Thank you. Well, a lot of work is done. I'm finally here today with this job and I'm gonna hand it over to you. Next, the work is already on the shoulders of the Riigikogu; I will get rid of one of the troubles. Now we come back to two very basic things. One is the same issue of value that we have been talking about. It is a question of how much someone thinks the state has to take care of people's livelihoods, to what extent. To the extent that they live with dignity, which is a loose concept in some ways, isn't it? What does this dignity mean: does it mean a state-paying retirement home, or does it mean something else? Or do we believe that a person's dignified old age is first of all his own business, the next order of his children's business and then maybe a local government matter and then suddenly comes the state? This is a question that still has to worry about a person's livelihood. People are tempted to say that someone else should worry about my well-being, but that's not quite right. I think that most people in Estonia do not want this either. Most people in Estonia do not want to walk, their hands are long ahead, asking for money from someone else to cope with. People want them to be given opportunities, and to be honest, that it is primarily your own concern. Now for the calculations. I have said well many times and I say once again that we can do these calculations in some medium-term perspective: next year, the next year, five years. 30 years after we do the calculation of how much poverty we have or how much wealth we have, it depends on so many source data, so many assumptions that can change very much. I would like to remind you that ten years ago, everyone spoke with complete unanimity in society, and there was a consensus that the population in Estonia would fall rapidly and gradually. But what's really going on? The last three or four years have seen an increase in the population in Estonia. I want to say that, even in a ten-year perspective, we have not been able to adequately assess demographic processes, and now we should talk about what will happen in 30 years' time. Of course, we need to think about the trends, the big picture. But the big picture is that we need more children, we need more wealth. And neither of us gets by saying don't you worry, the country will be worrying for you for the next decades tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and until your death. Neither of these messages serves any purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U152	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U153	Thank you. You did not actually answer my previous question, so I repeat that. Already, about 80% of the state's revenue has been spent in advance by laws and various foreign contracts. And the 20% left over may not be enough to implement the policy of one government or another. The reform you are currently planning places even greater emphasis on the first pillar, which means that the costs already set by law will increase and the government's ability to make any political or investment decisions will be further reduced. Is it your plan to go the way of various tax increases to implement your policy? I don't see any other solution in this situation, and that makes me very concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U154	Thank you. I am not sure that I agree with the argument that we are putting greater emphasis on the first pillar. I will still come back to it, too, that has been very much reflected in this explanatory memorandum, but this debate, regrettably, has disappeared from this debate, that the second pillar reflects the size of people's incomes considerably more. This means that the existence of the second pillar, the possibility to join the second pillar and the productivity times of the second pillar will go especially to people who have an average or higher average income. The first pillar plays a very important role, particularly in the case of people with significantly below average incomes. To them, the second pillar does not add much to it. However, in the case of people with high or at least above average incomes, the second pillar is a qualifying pension supplement if they spend a long time collecting this money and eventually withdraw it as foreseen, i.e. in instalments. I stress once again: I absolutely do not doubt that a very large number of people in Estonia are considering the situation, looking to their future, looking at their incomes and not rushing to withdraw this money, but keeping it. But that does not really solve the concern about what we do with pensions for low-paid people once they have retired. This second pillar isn't helping at all. When it comes to poverty, which you are always talking about here, or what we are always talking about here, the second pillar is almost irrelevant from this point of view. If we are to fight poverty, the first pillar must be dealt with. But people with higher incomes have a very considerable incentive to raise money in the second pillar. After this reform, there will also be an opportunity to join it and use the preferential tax regime by raising money in the second pillar. I do not understand at all what kind of breaking the second pillar or blowing up the Estonian economy we are talking about. I think it's completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U155	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U156	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! You said here that we couldn't appreciate the big plan. I think the Estonian proverb says that you reap what you sow. If you don't plant the forest, the forest doesn't grow. Forests are known to grow for decades, and savings are also used to grow income for decades in their old age. With this reform, you offer people a choice to continue in the second pillar or make an investment account or withdraw money and spend something. You think that people are not aware of the possibilities of using this money. This is also shown by the number of contributions to the third pillar: it is relatively small. What really is your specific recommendation to people? Take the money out?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U157	Thank you. I know the wisdom of the Estonian Old People, that what leaves the master will take the forest. The forest grows by itself, so it does. But my advice to people isn't to take the money out. My point is that people are different, people's economic situation is different, people's prospects are different, people's wishes are different. Each person has to appreciate it for himself. I'm not saying go and join the pillar, I'm not saying leave the pillar and take the money out. I do comment that the third pillar is unpopular. Of course, the third pillar is unpopular, because we already have a compulsory system of forced collection. In addition to this, having a third collection system that doesn't give you any other advantage, it doesn't make sense. It makes no sense! We certainly need to make some kind of decision about the future of the third pillar once we have seen how this reform will take place. But the advice to people is very clear: review your incomes, your collected assets, think through what you want in the future and what your ability to deal with this money is, and then make a decision. Say, as with a broad table, what everyone should do, all 740000 people are not possible. They are all different people, with different incomes, different ages, different degrees of professionalism, different levels of education. After all, that's the point. All of them have freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U158	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U159	Thank you, good Helir! Good Martin! I mean, I'm sure Helir totally believes in what you're saying, Martin, but I don't really think you believe all that stuff you're saying. I'm gonna give it a little test. Before you came here, in preparing this reform, have you also considered the possibility of improving the existing system a little bit: making payouts more flexible and perhaps changing something about succession? After all, we like to compare ourselves with Swedes and Finns. In doing so, we quickly conclude that our pensions are hugely low, that the return on the funds is minimal, that the situation is catastrophic. But we are not talking at all about Swedes and Finns paying three times more in their same second pillar. Three times more, and the Swedes even more than three times more than Estonians. Didn't it make sense for you to make a little bit of a difference, put more money in the pillar and make it more easily available later, but not completely break the mandatory part? I mean, there's a risk that a lot of people are gonna be lucky.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U160	Thank you. Ai-ai, Valdo, now you've told me to go fine-tuning. We are not a fine-tuning government, we are not fine-tuning, we are engaged in major and powerful reforms. As far as Finland and Sweden are concerned, it is right: Finland and Sweden are countries with a high tax burden. These are countries with a significantly higher tax burden than Estonia. In addition, Sweden is a country where there has been no war for two hundred years, but where it has been well-earned for a hundred years in a row from war. In addition, Sweden is the country from which the two large banks that make the best money in Estonia have come, partly thanks to these funds. So, of course, they're rich as trolls. But whether we have to pay for this wealth with our failed pension system, I am not sure of that. I think we have much better examples of how pension systems work. We can look at the example of Switzerland or the example of the Netherlands, where the substitution rate is much higher. There, indeed, is a very high "general level of wealth" no matter how we measure it, whether we look at GDP or GDP per capita, or whether we look at productivity. Whatever we look at, the figures are much bigger than in Estonia. And here's the answer to the question of what to do. The answer is very simple: Estonia must become richer, then we will be able to pay bigger pensions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U161	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U162	Thank you. Good waitress! A lot of questions have already been asked here. As regards the background to the destruction of the entire second pension pillar, several economic actors, IMF, Eesti Pank, even the National Audit Office, have noted that there are very many risk factors. Eesti Pank has even said in its analysis that if the second pillar were to be broken, then in future, this point means one third of smaller pensions, item 2, higher taxation, or point 3, more immigration. All expert and other public assessments of the reform are relatively negative. On what basis are you so optimistic about protecting it? Do you just have to protect it from your office? Please give me feedback on the experts' assessments on which you rely!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U163	Thank you. I suggest you at least watch the trial on TV. We have already talked about this 30% and Eesti Pank and the National Audit Office several times here, and I have raised my objections. However, it is quite common for major reforms with very large amounts of money, we are saying that 4.6 billion has been raised, we are talking about 316 million or 320 million annual contributions, that the financial institutions make a huge profit on it. We understand that they have an excellent capacity to produce various analyses, drawn from their point of view to influence public opinion. I'm not saying these experts don't know what they're saying. I'm just saying that a large proportion of the experts we're talking about represent a particular interest group. And we can resist other experts who have argued against it. I'm not gonna name them by name, you're gonna say they're not gonna work, but it's not like opinions are on one side only. It's just that there's more mass on one side. But what is my optimism based on? Maybe I am such a golden person, I have a lot of optimism. But actually, I'm looking at what the current system is, and I'm saying that anything we change can only get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U164	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U165	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Many thanks for not hiding that the focus is primarily on short-term consumption, initiating rapid growth in consumption. As far as the medium or long term perspective is concerned, it is not an end in itself. But in the perspective, we have three undoubtedly different ways of paying pensions in the future: an increase in taxes, an increase in the use of migrant workers or an increase in the retirement age. On the rise of taxes, you've been extremely careful in your answers. At the same time, the Central Party, which has organized tax breaks in our hall, is also part of the government. Is the tax debate really the beginning of the big picture change? Which payments will be raised in the medium and long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U166	Thank you. The increase in retirement age has already been registered as a prerequisite for the pension system. I do not even understand why you are trying to argue against the reform. The current system also foresees an increase in the retirement age. I think I've told you many times what this real solution is. The real solution is the growth of the Estonian economy, increasing the volume of the Estonian economy, increasing productivity and increasing wealth in Estonia. It will also increase revenue without us having to raise tax rates. Perhaps you have noticed that we have recently reduced one tax rate and, as a result, tax receipts have increased. A purely linear approach is highly primitive, I'd say. And then it was said that ten years ago everyone was talking about how fast our population was falling. In fact, the population has increased. And there's been an increase in immigration. It makes me very unhappy, I absolutely don't like it, but I want to point out that the story that was said ten years ago about what our medium-term perspective is was put to the ground. Totally! Everyone got screwed by experts, didn't they, or guessers did, and the Nightshade columnist also screwed up. We can consensually agree that this is the case, but real life is different. And now the question of the tax debate. I welcome the tax debate because the social debate on how to improve life is a good debate. I don't think anyone in the current government is talking about any new amount of tax increases floating on our table as a result of the tax bill. On the contrary, the government came together and agreed, first of all, that we were the kind of government that would not raise taxes. We'd rather see if any taxes could be reduced. But if we talk about ten or 30 years from the perspective of God, who knows who's gonna win the next election and what kind of election promises? It's living its own life, unlike what we've been planning today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U167	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U168	Thank you. I understand that voluntary savings for the future are only suitable for very few people who are very strong, such as the Minister of Finance before us, who have not joined the second pillar. And I look in the mirror myself. But we have seen that in other parts of Europe, attempts have been made to follow this path to save the future, for retirement, and life has shown that those countries that have done this, Poland and Hungary, have gone back to the compulsory system. But that's it. My question is more in favour of belief. There's been a lot of talk about religion today. How many people who take out their money at the end of their compulsory collection in the second pillar in the first three months do you think will consume it? What's the percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U169	Thank you. I would stress that although the example of Poland is still being given from time to time, this example is not adequate. It cannot be used as an example that they went back to the compulsory scheme. They changed their previous volunteering rather than went back to the compulsory scheme, as they are trying to make an impression. How much could this percentage be? Look, we have to make a difference between two things, one is a lot of people, and the other is a lot of money. When we talk about the money leaving the funds, we predict that more or less 25% of the money will leave the funds as a result of the first wave of departure. But it could be a significantly higher percentage of people. If there are a lot of people who have small savings, the leavers may be 30%, but the money leaves about 20%. What are they doing with the money? That depends very much on how much someone's money is. We have a very large number of people who have collected an amount of EUR 600. At the most, I do not remember these decimes by heart now, nor will I look for your time not to be wasted on the money that has accumulated in the funds for those people who have less than EUR 1000 there, some hundreds of euros. Now, if we're going to ask if that's the big savings of old age insured, let's not make people laugh, okay? But let's ask them, if you take out the money, what do you do with it? Are you going to make a big investment with this? Well, none of us believe they're going to make a big investment with it. They must place it somewhere that seems reasonable and useful to them at this point in their life. But we also have in mind an age structure. The lowest amounts are mainly for people who are the youngest, who have been on the labour market for a short time or who have just been in school. They have only made some money for a short time, and their wages may be lower as a result. And there is no tragedy in it when they withdraw their thousand euros, because it has very little impact on their future pension. They have for a very short time come to be in a situation where their second pillar is side by side with the first pillar and their first pillar share is therefore smaller. There are so many possible options that you don't want to try to say that everybody does that now. That certainly cannot be said. Everything still depends very much on people's age, their income, the amount of money they collect. If we look for examples in other parts of the world, we find that a similar reform was carried out in England. There was a minimum age, but people were given the opportunity to withdraw their money in full. Few people took advantage of this opportunity. When people are already approaching retirement age, people think significantly more about how to live normally after working life, after the loss of their earnings. People were very responsible when they used their money. It bothers me a little bit that we have some kind of half-witted toothless snowplow, like the so-called template person that we have to build up our pension system. Well, we don't have to build our pension system according to it! We still need to build our pension system according to what is our, I don't know, middle class or the part of society that carries. Anyway, we will always, until the end of time, have very rich people and very poor people, but we still have to keep an eye on the middle part.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U170	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U171	Thank you. Your last example touched on, I don't even want to repeat that word, Lumpen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U172	Well, you bring it to me, for example!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U173	As Minister of Finance, you understand that the state is responsible for the livelihood of all people in old age. In accordance with our Constitution, the European Social Charter and the European Social Security Code, it is the duty of the state to provide people with a decent old age, regardless of the social system and pension system. The pension system as a whole must be sustainable, be it one, two or three pillars, whether it is voluntary or flexible. No matter what the system is, our people should actually be able to cope. If you look at the past, you say that all the analyses and forecasts that have been made before have been incompetent. If you look to the future, you will not really say what this objective is, what a sustainable pension system we are chasing could be like. It cannot be that the whole objective is to make the second pillar voluntary. Has the Republic of Estonia begun to waive its obligations under the Constitution, the European Social Charter and the European Social Security Code?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U174	Thank you. So that no one would tweet or go to Facebook to talk about how I called people Lumpen: I blamed some of the questioners that they regard it as a standard, I don't know, the most hopeless person in society who doesn't know how to work or raise money, and think that the whole of Estonia's social welfare system must be built up according to the standard of such a person. I don't agree with that. I don't agree with that! These are the people we're keeping up now, helping them and taking care of them. It's just that taking care of them doesn't guarantee them, say, a very royal life, does it? But we keep them up as a country. We are now, and in the future we will, as long as Estonia has a country. Of course! After all, pension sustainability is part of the whole debate. I am telling you that the current system is also unsustainable. If we don't do something about it, it won't be sustainable. We all know this baseline scenario, which I have referred to several times: the substitution rate is decreasing. If we don't do something, the substitution rate will fall. And then you come to tell me that let's not change anything because if we change, the substitution rate will fall. It's gonna fall anyway! [[Voices in the hall.]] I don't know how many times I've told you what to do. In Estonia, social prosperity must be increased as a whole, and then we have the wealth to re-distribute. I'm really surprised that I have to give this lecture to the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U175	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U176	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, However, it has to be acknowledged that most analysts and other experts have said that, if this reform takes place, pensions will most likely decrease in the future. As we know, both the family law and the constitution state that children are responsible for managing their parents. Which means that, according to current knowledge, we are very likely to place a great deal of responsibility on those children who are still in primary school today. In preparation for this reform, have you discussed in the coalition that perhaps this principle could be changed, and really everyone is responsible for themselves, not children are responsible for the stupidities that parents have ever done?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U177	Thank you. In order for the solidarity pension system to disappear in Estonia, we have not discussed in the coalition if this was the case. That each one of us is responsible for himself, that's quite the kind of talk we've never had at the table. I'm sure you'll have to say that. The children are responsible for their parents and, on the contrary, their parents are responsible for their children. This is what we call social cohesion and the intergenerational link. However, there has been a lot of unequal treatment here. The most unequal treatment is that you have three or four children or five, such as me, and there are no children who say I work hard, I pay a lot of income in this way in the second pillar, but when I get old, someone will take care of me both financially and physically. That, I suspect, is not sustainable. So I cannot answer this question in any other way than, of course, we have discussed these risks. Of course, we have thought about how to improve ivet in Estonia. After all, this is a key issue for improving productivity in Estonia and supporting economic growth in general. That's what we're actually going to have a chance with. We can divide the pillars back and forth here, but this does not increase wealth in Estonia, it is simply not possible. And if we push a big piece of cake through the banks to the Swedes in the process of dividing the pillars, it won't increase our wealth. Why does it have to be renegotiated so many times, and it still doesn't make sense to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U178	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U179	Thank you. Good answer! This promotion of intolerance and denial of climate change certainly does not make young people want to succeed in Estonia. Rather, it takes people away from Estonia. We have had all sorts of finance ministers, but I am absolutely certain that none of them have spoken such an irresponsible story before. I also do not know that any of the finance ministers of the Estonian era of independence would have used a Marxist term such as 'lumpen', which, according to the dictionary book, means ragak proletariat. I think this is a place not only to apologize, but sometimes to something more. I offer this opportunity in the course of this response. But my question is, if a person now takes money out of the pension pillar and buys ten kinds of shares, as an average wage recipient, how much would it be for a transaction fee? How many percent? If EUR 1000 is a pension savings for the average person and he buys ten types of shares, how much about the fees?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U180	Oh, for heaven's sake! I don't see how you're gonna put some rag-proletariat template in my mouth! You make it look like my quote. Oh, my God! But all right. Intolerance and climate change, it is good that you raised this issue. When we talk about climate policy, this is a completely unnecessary debate. Ocasio-Cortez said we have 12 years, and then the planet will be destroyed. And Thunberg said we have ten years, and then the planet will be destroyed. What are we even doing here with a long plan? The planet will be destroyed anyway, all of us will be burned. There is nothing to do with climate change in this sense. In this light, any pension debate is indisputable. But there was some kind of calculation that this EUR 1000 would probably cost EUR 90 if you weren't smart. Maybe somewhere in the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U181	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U182	Thank you, good Helir! Good Martin! It's still Christmas Eve, but I'll ask Martin. In the previous composition of the Riigikogu, we changed the first pillar of the pension system. I mean, we didn't change it, they changed it, we were on the other side at that point, and actually against that change. This change was that the first pillar became more dependent on working hours and less on income. Then one very strong argument for this change was precisely that the second pillar would compensate for this change. Now basically the second pillar disappears. You don't like being told you're gonna take him out, but basically you're gonna do it. The second pillar disappears and the first pillar is what it is. Have you not had the desire to bring the first pillar to the same position as it was three years ago, perhaps to make it more income-based?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U183	Thank you. It is true that this regulation was amended. It is true that the argument at the time was that it was the second pillar that took into account income, and it is also true that I have pointed out today that the second pillar is actually very important for those people whose income is above the average. The second pillar better reflects this. Therefore, I do not agree in any way with these predictions or with the incitement to panic that the second pillar is now liquidated because people with little money are leaving there. I am not at all sure that people who have little money will also leave. Everything depends very much on people's sense of perspective and what they plan, what their overall attitude is, etc. It's all really overdramatic. I do not know what has been thinking or what the internal debate has been in the political parties of the coalition. But I can say calmly that the dimming or redeployment of the first pillar has not been discussed in the course of this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U184	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U185	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Now I can ask you another question. I understand that the word 'bank' makes you feel like ticks and bloodsuckers. Is that why Eesti Pank's analysis is not suitable for you? If you base the budget on the analysis of Eesti Pank, it is fine. Isn't it a little Pharisee that the analysis of Eesti Pank is not suitable for you in the case of the regulation of the second pillar? Is the word 'bank' the reason, or what? And two: we accept your words that the standard is like the most irresponsible person that the state should maintain. In fact, it is for responsible people who, for example, have 4 to 5 children to pay for their children in their old age, but for an irresponsible person, the municipality pays for their home expenses. We're dealing with inequality here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U186	Well, inequality is in every system. I very much hope that we will not want to build a system of real equality. It always ends with mass graves. Now, the bank certainly doesn't give me any disgusting thing to do with it. I have to say that in the process of preparing this draft, I have been a little more in touch with bankers than before, but I have also been in contact with bankers before I became a finance minister, and I have no kink about banks. But I see a problem when I think about the rationality of the existing system. The rationality of the existing system does not satisfy me and does not satisfy a very large number of people, despite the opinion of all these experts. The absolute majority of Estonian people feel that the system is not working well. Depends on the questioning that is being asked and asked, but more than 60% of people think it is right to volunteer the second pillar and support it. And whatever we're discussing or arguing here, I think that's enough. If people want to, they have to. Maybe because of this opinion, I am a populist, but indeed, that is an argument in itself. As for the opinions of Eesti Pank, which I disagree with, I sometimes disagree with these assessments of our budget. We are arguing about growth figures or some budget gap. These are healthy disputes and they are not just related to this point. Eesti Pank is independent and conducts its independent analyses. It is excellent and it is an important input for making different decisions, but the Ministry of Finance does its own analyses and they often differ from Eesti Pank's. It's nothing extraordinary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U187	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U188	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! You have justified this reform here, in my opinion, with two things. One objective is that it gives people more freedom. As a liberal star, I agree more or less with that: indeed it does. However, it is obvious that the risks have not been grounded. You have also said that the aim of the reform is to increase wealth, that it will generate more money. It is a purely left view that raising money from one account to another somehow increases the amount of money. I don't think that's true. But my question is why. I have sensed some irony here with regard to finance analysts: they've sort of analyzed the wrong things and analyzed something that hasn't been asked about at all. What does it look like it's coming from? Let us put aside political parties, there are several former finance ministers who are opposed to this reform. All right, it's like a political spite, right, but Eesti Pank, IMF, OECD, National Audit Office, Development Monitoring Centre, private banks, pension funds, everything has said it's a bad idea. And they've analyzed it differently. What's it coming from? Is it in spite of a deep state, or why is it that almost anyone who thinks anything about it is against it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U189	Thank you. I object to the claim that the risks have not been mitigated. We've been doing a lot of work to identify these risks and mitigate them. I also argue that giving people money to them, not holding it in the hands of government or government-appointed organisations, is somehow an obstacle to the growth of wealth or even to the left in nature. When we talk about the growth in wealth, it should be clear to everyone today that if you give individuals as much freedom as possible to walk around with their own money, it is the fastest and best way to grow wealth. Now how it was, I don't remember, it was an American politician who said that just because you're paranoid doesn't mean you're not being persecuted. Yeah, well, a deep-state conspiracy can't be denied here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U190	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U191	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm sorry, I may have put my question vaguely earlier. Of course, I am not opposed to a solidarity pension system. My question was that if analysts predict that this reform will result in a reduction in pensions, have you discussed whether the current responsibility of children for the care of their parents could be changed? We know that already today very many children are struggling to pay their parents' nursing home bills, and I understand that this pressure will be even greater in the future. Do you think this is fair to those children who are now in middle school?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U192	Thank you. Yeah, I really misunderstood the question. But I continue to argue with the claim that the pension will be reduced. I am saying that this is one of the very predictable amounts in a very certain way and that the pension for the first pillar will increase in the near future. That's one thing for sure. What happens in ten or 30 years, we can figure it out both ways, but let's figure it out as a certain thing already fixed, well, I can't really sign that. When I spoke of child responsibility, I once mentioned the Swiss pension system. Switzerland is very simple: it is the responsibility of children. The full responsibility of the children! After all, we all envy Switzerland, the prosperity of this country and the social system, and everything else. There is no question: if anything happens to an older person, the bill will be sent to the children, and that is it. We have a more solidarity society. But I wouldn't take responsibility from the kids. I would say that this is a very dangerous route if we start discussing the fact that we take responsibility for our elderly parents from our children. Its wider world-view background is the nationalization of man. The children are state-owned, the elderly are state-owned, all state-owned, all under state responsibility. The state will take your money away from you, place it wherever it wants, say it's good, don't ask, we know better, we'll keep the sustainability of the system up here. It's all state! I'm not going along with that philosophy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U193	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U194	Thank you. In answer to my previous question, you said that, at EUR 1000, about 90 euros will be charged when you start investing yourself. That's exactly 9%, which doesn't seem like a very good idea to me. But, well, that's what it's like for your conscience, how good alternatives you offer to people. But in your earlier answers, you have said something extraordinaryly strange several times. Firstly, that young people do not have high savings and, in principle, do not have the possibility or reason to start saving. Secondly, because the pension for low-paid people is lower, the second pillar can be taken away, which, if the pension is small anyway, does not need the second pillar. I think there's a big logic error in both of these structures. Just as it is a mistake that you call an inverted change a reform throughout. Reforms are things that take life forward, not those that take Estonia back several decades. But my question is: if it turns out that people are taking money out of the pension pillar and not investing it, they are just spending it and, as a result, they are living in great poverty after decades...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U195	There's one minute to ask the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U196	Yeah, I'm sorry! Are you willing to admit, then, that you have done a very large disservice to Estonia's development?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U197	Well, with that 9%, you don't have to make that decision. You can go on calmly in the second pillar. Look around, look for some really high-end fund, some other investment instrument, go ahead! You don't have to do it yourself. That, too, is the joy of this freedom. I don't think I made a logic mistake. I think I was just talking about a fact. The fact is that people with lower pay are, in any case, the first pillar of the pension. The second pillar next door plays a very small role. I don't see anything to do with logic here, it's just like that. But what question was I supposed to answer? Oh, yeah, if it goes wrong. Of course I'll admit we wanted better, but...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U198	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U199	Good waitress! You have repeatedly referred to the fact that all the forecasts made by these experts in the OECD, IMF, Eesti Pank, Development Monitoring Centre, who have pointed out that this reform is a very bad idea and that the pension system should not be broken in this way, are forward-looking and not fit for anything. You have also mysteriously referred to some other experts' opinions, but whose opinions they are, you keep them to yourself. I'd really like to know who these experts are. Why don't you just say it anyway? Question two. You said it was a prognosis, and there are no examples. But there are examples of Poland and Hungary. It has taken exactly the same steps, and we know where they came from and where they are now. Not even need to talk about future forecasts, but can rely on what has been done in other countries and not repeat their mistakes. But the question is, yes, about the expertise you're building on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U200	Thank you. Regarding the IMF, I've met the IMF people at least three times. Their delegation has been here several times. And when I went to Washington, I met them. Of course, the IMF has expressed some reservations and concerns and made recommendations. But in the course of these meetings, I didn't read what they were saying, or didn't feel that it was a very bad idea. On the contrary, they repeatedly stressed that the current system was not working well. That's what they said many times. The question is, how far are we going with this system being redesigned? Indeed, they admonished us to be as careful as possible. In view of what is the purpose or the statutory obligation of their institution, that is understandable. The expert I'm referring to, and with whom you can argue outside the air, is Neivelt, for example. [[A voice from the hall.]] That's why I didn't say the name before, because I knew you'd do it! But all these other experts are coming from one sector. They're all coming from one sector! Of course, then, who comes from the financial sector to say that we are now guaranteed by law every year by a certain flow of hundreds of millions, from which we almost have nothing to pay out for the next 40 years, and, of course, to reform this system. Well, who's gonna talk about this sector? A retired former banker might be coming, okay? So let's figure out where this is coming from! If you ask why I am skeptical about them, the answer is very simple: they have very clear interests in the game. [[A voice from the hall.]] Development Monitoring Centre? To be honest, I haven't read their judgment, I have to admit it. I'd be flirting right now if I appreciated it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U201	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U202	Thank you! Minister of Finance! In addition to these expert institutions, which have been mentioned repeatedly here, employers' and trade union organisations have also said that breaking the second pillar is not a wise act, and they have protested against it. They represent a significant part of our society, they represent people who will have to deal with the consequences of disrupting this system later. I understand that these institutions, which have been mentioned here and whose forecasts are generally based on such long-term agreements in society so far, are not suitable for you. You'd better trust your guts and follow a political agreement, making very sharp turns, which are most likely to be fatal. But if it happens, as all these institutions have said, if it goes badly, what will you say to your children? And what do you advise all those coalition representatives who will put their hand down on it after a while to tell their children and grandchildren: why did you ruin their future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U203	I always say to my children every day, as long as you don't choose such things. Yes! Employers and trade unions, that's very interesting! I'm about to remember Villu Tamme's song that the police and the punk are friendly together. In that sense, yes, I admit honestly: I trust my gut more than I trust the unions. So what do we do?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U204	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U205	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You have stressed on several occasions that this is a value-based reform aimed at a liberal and, indeed, as Mr Kross said, a liberal increase in the rate of freedom. The only concrete effect you yourself predicted when presenting the draft is that people who do not have much collected, or lower wages, are going to win the richer by continuing to collect in the second pillar. Perhaps the poor will be poorer because of your decision, the rich will be richer. A real deep country, I'd say! Is that what EKRE values are? It has seemed to me that, in the case of conservativeness, it is usually fair to maintain self-preservation in society, together with doing things that a person cannot do so well on his own. Perhaps you could comment on whether you are also doing this reform on the basis of the values of the EHRE?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U206	Thank you. We will certainly do so on the basis of the values of the EKRE and on the basis of EKRE's election promise. Everyone knows that the Fatherland said the money was on fire and everything else, but also in our election program was about making the second pillar optional. Poorer, richer rhetoric, well, it's a great map to set the table, but it's actually exactly the opposite. In fact, if we do this reform, we will be able to increase social tax contributions to the first pillar and we will be able to increase pensions. And it has been very clear in today's debate that for people with lower incomes, the first pillar is clearly more useful or positive. In the first pillar, the rate of solidarity is much higher, which takes less into account their lower income. So we will increase the social tax contributions to the first pillar and increase the base of the first pillar. Therefore, I categorically disagree with the argument that the poor are becoming poorer. On the contrary, the poor get richer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U207	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! In 2004, I joined the second pillar of the pension, and about four years later my pension account was in a strong position. In June 2009, the State suspended its contributions to the second pension pillar and lasted until the end of 2010. My question is: if the current system, in which case the decision on what to do with my money would remain unchanged, in the light of the above circumstances, would I have any hope of some tangible additional amount of pension? Or would inflation eat the money I paid and collected?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U208	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U209	Thank you. It's not a unique story, it's happened a lot. I can give exactly the same example of my family that a person had paid in for about five years, but then the economic crisis came, and then there was zero. He didn't get anything, and he paid a penalty for the termination of the contract. That was the third pillar, that's true. Here there is a very much debate about the argument that, however, legitimate expectation and equal treatment, and all else, the state is obliged to guarantee everything. But what did it cost ten years ago? Nobody got anything. Nobody got anything! Real returns to date have been 0.8%. Real rate of return is 0.8%! In other words, if you put that money under a pillow in your home, it will have the same effect. Or actually, there's a better effect, because sometimes you don't give your money to someone else who's been holding it for 40 years and says we know better how to handle your incomes. Well, maybe we'll give you a return, maybe we won't, but we'll still charge the fund fees. It's been asked many times why we're doing this. Why are we doing this?! Because it's a system that gets on people's nerves. People do not feel that this is a fair, fair and useful system. It may seem fair, fair and useful to bankers and experts, but the people who pay in do not think so. And there are more than people who think it's a good system. And it has to be addressed. If we have democracy, we will address it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U210	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your thorough presentation and for your meaningful answers. It's like we're supposed to have a bill discussion, but I think it's like a day of study. Do you think most of the questioners have received your answers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U212	Thank you. It's hard to appreciate. Of course, I hope the vast majority have read the explanatory statement. The draft itself is very technical, but the first and final part of the explanatory memorandum in particular is a substantive part of it, and certainly those people who are not satisfied with this amendment will also find their argument. But I very much hope that today's three-hour debate has helped to clarify things. There are some things that have become clearer to me. I would say two things that have become clearer to me. One is that a party that considers itself to be liberal wants the greatest possible role of the state, wants as much money as possible to be taken away from people and to decide for them. It doesn't fit my head. And in economic growth, they see no source of wealth growth. The Social Democratic Party, which stands for a so-called small person, stands for the bank's business model. This is, I think, the essence of the current debate that has come to my attention. What's arrived on the other side of the hall, I can't answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U213	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U214	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I quote you first of all: 'The reform may result in a long-term revenue for the state budget from the suspension of contributions of a maximum of EUR 400 million and a one-off income for the withdrawal of funds of a maximum of EUR 1 billion, which is linked to an increase in income tax and an increase in VAT. ' I will then ask what is the cost if the Estonian people have no pension savings in five, ten or 15 years' time. People will therefore be poorer and more dependent on the state, or, in fact, more dependent on their children, as has been pointed out here. I also confirm: I think you have misunderstood our claim that you put in our mouths. But I guess that's what Andres Sutt is talking about as a representative of the Reform Party in his speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U215	Thank you. A very good place has been chosen! Right, maximum return of 400 million and a billion. But this is the assumption that all people will eliminate their second pillar. They're gonna stop, and that's it. Finito. No one predicts that. Nobody! Even the biggest panic triggers, no matter what expert they are, don't predict it. Why am I saying this? Your groupmates like to quote certain sentences and repeat that there is a risk and that there is a risk with the other. There are possible different options that might happen. But, in fact, we understand that not all people end their second pillar payments. There is no way that this 400 million will be realized. We are talking here, as I may have said when I discussed these figures, that the real amount may be between EUR 70 and 120 million. And let's divide that billion by, I don't know, four or five, right? And that's just a prognosis anyway. All we can say here is that the probability is something like this. It's quite a range, and it's hard for us to predict, but we may be able to predict some order of magnitude. The same can be said of negative and positive scenarios. Which of these will be realised depends on a number of factors, including, for example, whether something is added or taken out in the second reading of the draft law. To say this day, I'm sure that's what's gonna happen, not really. I still disagree. You ask what happens in the future when people take money out. Once again, I would point out that when people take this money out and take it into use, it increases our overall wealth. This is where the money from the pension system comes from. This is it! But, well, if you don't want to make it right, then I can explain it for the third or, I don't know, the tenth time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U216	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U217	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You have also called the content of the draft we are discussing today a value-based reform. Well, I understand what values you have and what values are in the Fatherland. And you also read out the values of the Reform Party and the values of the Social Democratic Party. From this point of view, I wonder if you can answer what the Centre Party's values are in this context.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U218	Thank you. I'm curious how long you've been in this hall. I don't think the middle party talks about anything but retirement. Pension increases will take place next year and will take place in 2021. And it's linked to this reform, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U219	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Let's keep going. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U220	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Monetary Affairs has discussed this issue in two meetings. The first took place on 5 November this year. Representatives of interest groups who had expressed their wish to contribute to the subject were invited. People were invited from the Estonian Insurance Association, LHV Varahaldus AS, Swedbank Investment Funds AS, FinanceEstonia, Alexela Varahaldus, Coop Pank AS, AS E-Piim Production, Lumi Capital OÜ, EstVCA, as well as Head of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance Siiri Tõniste, Adviser Kertu Fedotov and Chief Specialist Tõnu Lillelaid. Everyone had the opportunity to express their views on the pension reform and to make proposals. Proposals have also been submitted to the Commission in writing. The Committee on Finance also discussed a draft 108 at its meeting on 19 November. The introduction was made by Minister of Finance Martin Helme, introducing the draft reform of compulsory funded pension initiated by the Government of the Republic. All Members of the Commission were able to ask questions. In summary, the debate today also raises the question of whether giving people decision-making is really that bad. The purpose of the draft law amending the law on funded pensions pending before the Riigikogu and related other laws is to make compulsory funded pensions optional. Making the second pension pillar voluntary increases people's freedom and raises awareness of the pension system. In addition, investment opportunities are expanding and competition is increasing, as a result of which fund managers need to step up their efforts to keep customers. This will increase the productivity of pension funds, which will ensure a higher pension in the future. The opponents of the voluntaryisation of the second pension pillar say that this is unequal treatment. Is it really the case that, when laying down the right to withdraw money, non-members of the second pillar should be given the right to use the 4% share of social tax in the same way as those who join the second pillar? The current law states that membership of funded pension is compulsory for persons born in 1983 or later. The right to payment and the obligation to pay shall arise on 1 January of the year following the age of 18. People born between 1942 and 1982 were able to join the funded pension scheme on a voluntary basis until 31 October 2010. Currently, nearly 740000 people have joined the second pension pillar. These include all working people aged 18 or over born in 1983 or later. Anyone born before that is already a volunteer. Now, if we make the entire second pillar of pension voluntary, where is it a breach of the Constitution? Different treatment can only be spoken of for those born before 1983, but their accession was voluntary and will also apply to the implementation of the new law. Anyone born in 1983 or later has been required to join the second pension pillar. The new law would give them the choice of whether to continue, create their own investment account or leave the other pension pillar. Everyone is treated equally. At the same time, it should not be forgotten that the second pension pillar also takes into account 2% of the person's salary. If a person has not joined the second pillar, his salary will be 2% higher, while this will not affect the rights attached to the first pillar. Is the bill discussed in the Riigikogu today ideal? Certainly not, that is why the Riigikogu needs to adopt the law... [[Voices from the floor.]] Please don't interrupt! I'm not interrupting, if you ask...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U221	Excuse me, honorable waitress. Is there a procedural question? Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U222	I have a real question, of course, but the procedural question is that the chairman of the committee is speaking now, not giving an overview of what was being debated in the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U223	We'll get there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U224	That's the problem. You made it very brief, and right now you're giving a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U225	No, Maris, these were the problems that arose at meetings with the various parties, and I am describing them now. I'm describing them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U226	Easy! Jürgen Ligi, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U227	Am I right to understand that the chairman of the Commission, by making a presentation on behalf of the Commission, must reflect the discussion and not his views, as we are hearing now? In fact, it is constantly expressing some position which the Commission has not voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U228	Yes, Member of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi, you understand very well, but I was not present at this committee meeting and I do not know what was discussed there. I expect that is what the chairman of the committee will present as a representative of the Commission. So I ask the rapporteur to continue, hopefully, reflecting what was discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U229	Jürgen, you were there when there was a meeting between the various parties. I've taken these things apart right now. [[A voice from the hall.]] No, the other way around! Just let me finish, and if it feels like everything's wrong at the end, just say it. I didn't interrupt when you asked questions. In the moment, most pension funds operating in Estonia have not been able to ensure a long-term high rate of return. Under the current law, nearly 740000 people have not had the opportunity to withdraw money after joining the second pension pillar and therefore fund managers have not had enough motivation to ensure a higher return. A little about investments in the Estonian economy. Estonian companies face major challenges, adapting to the changing economic environment and new conditions of competition. The investments of funds in the Estonian economy have become increasingly important over the last ten years and play a significant role in the financing of companies. If companies are well funded and have an important role to play by pension funds, this will create the will to make additional investments that increase added value. The investments of pension funds are primarily needed by companies based on Estonian capital, or national capital, in order to realise plans for increasing productivity and technical modernisation. Pension funds also play an important role in capitalising companies, which creates the prerequisite for large-scale investments. We have reached a phase where very large investments are needed in different economic sectors over the next decade. Otherwise, the competitiveness of our businesses will fall rapidly. In addition to pension funds, it is difficult to find an alternative to equity-like investments in Estonian companies. Therefore, the voluntaryisation of the second pension pillar must also take into account the preservation of the ability of pension funds to invest in the local economy, as it has a direct link to our future economy. By amending the Investment Funds Act in 2018, Estonian pension funds were allowed to borrow long-term loans, but only 10% of the value of the assets. There are certainly proposals for changing the pension system that are worth considering, with the aim of diversifying the investment risks of funds if severalty per cent of the participants want to leave the funds at the same time. One option is to extend the possibility of borrowing guaranteed by the Funds from 10% to 30% of the value of the asset. An increase in the loan limit for pension funds would help the funds to manage liquidity. Due to the proposed changes, Estonian pension funds may need to borrow to a greater extent to manage liquidity so that pension funds can set up credit lines with shorter notice in domestic commercial banks. If pension funds are able to borrow on reasonable terms, borrowing to the unit-holder may be more beneficial both in the short term and in the longer term than quick selling of assets in the fund at a price below net value. Another option is to leave the fund or change the fund, which is currently allowed three times a year with a notice period of only one month. In order for funds not to have to put their investments on the market as a matter of urgency, the notice period for exit from the fund should be at least six months. Limiting the possibility of withdrawal from the second pension pillar only once a year and extending the period of notice to up to six months would reduce the likelihood of a decision being made on the basis of short-term events and the economic situation. This would ensure that the funds can calmly guarantee the liquidity of their portfolios and the protection of the assets of all pension collectors. In this case, the withdrawal of money from pension funds would take place more slowly and in smaller volumes. This would not undermine the economic balance and increase choice and flexibility, which is one of the objectives of the reform. Under new competitive conditions, pension funds are expected to yield 5 to 8%, while the borrowing rate is certainly lower. It is therefore worth considering the possibility that people can borrow by providing their pension fund units as collateral, without cashing out the shares and leaving the pension system. These were part of the proposals that were discussed with the stakeholders and which I outlined here in summary. They could be further analysed in the Commission and the Riigikogu as a whole in subsequent discussions. The Commission also made decisions: to send a draft law to the reading today, to confirm the speaker before you as a rapporteur for the Commission and to set ten working days for the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U230	Thank you. You have questions too. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U231	Thank you. Good waitress! What happened was what I was afraid of: you did not take stock of the Commission's work and the discussion that was in the Commission when the minister presented us with this draft. You introduced what happened by choosing the thoughts you like when we met different organizations. And I would like to remind you that this meeting was not directly related to the processing of this draft. It was also agreed that this debate would not be part of the draft procedure. Why did you make such an incomplete and biased report? To be honest, it's a big disappointment for me, I was hoping for a better one.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U232	Thank you. The meetings of the Commission are all set out in the minutes. I can read these three pages to know what someone asked for and how the minister replied. Is it supposed to be in this Chamber that we read the minutes and the explanatory notes of the drafts down to one, as often happens? I think we all have reading skills. But when it comes to need, I'm ready to read the text. I have the protocols on what was asked in the committee and what was answered. But they are available to all members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U233	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, do you have a procedural question? Every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask only two questions during this item. Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U234	Thank you! Dear waitress, I asked the Minister of Finance the same question earlier, but he began to talk about the choices his children would have to make if they were to choose one day. My question is: what do you say to your children's children and advise those who vote for the dismantling of the second pillar when their descendants ask one day why you ruined our future? Why did you take away from us the many chances we would otherwise have had? In the vast majority of experts, all experts say that this places a very high burden on future generations
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U235	Thank you, Indrek, for a very good question. I have to admit, I have three daughters who all work, and all three girls find this bill pretty good. My eldest daughter has graduated from the University of Tartu and worked in Estonian banking for eight years. Now he went back to the Netherlands to upgrade himself. Since this is not financed in any way by our country, it is a year in the Netherlands that the Master's degree again means that everything he has earned in eight years has been spent on it. He would be very pleased if, after returning, he could also use the money collected in the second pension pillar to start up again. This is not a small amount. My children certainly know how to use this money no worse than the current fund managers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U236	Peter Ernits, is this a procedural question? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U237	Manager! I have seen a number of Commission speakers here who have read the minutes. Some, however, have taken a more relaxed approach. As a relatively young Member, I ask: is all this text, which is in the protocol, to be read off, or can there be a creative approach? Well, some ambassador could sing a slice or dance. The main thing is to give an overview of what happened in the Commission. This is in response to the concerns of my fellow Members, Mr Ligi and Mr Lauri. How's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U238	Thank you. The procedural question was referred to the President of the sitting. The Home and Rules of Procedure Act does not exactly state what form the Commission representative is presenting, but we have a more or less established practice of giving an overview of the issues that have been discussed. Every representative of the Commission will do so in the best way possible. Signe Riisalo, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U239	The second member's comments gave the impression that the discussions between the members of the committee were not quite reflected, but that the appropriate views of the guests were presented. Should it be considered that the rapporteur now mentions the three most important positions of the Commission? It is the Commission's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U240	Thank you. It was not a procedural question now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U241	Thank you. But I can help you out here a little bit. It's just that the Commission didn't make any decisions, as you know, but it was possible to ask questions. Let me give you three examples of questions. Jürgen Ligi asked if the impact analysis showed how much the pension was going to rise. The Minister replied that, according to the calculation, the contributions to the second pension pillar in the mid-2050s are not less than the contributions from the second pillar. This means that until then, the system will be leaning towards the first pillar. As a result of this reform, the pension will increase until at least 2060. Aivar Sõerd pointed out that the Commission was informed of what was written in the draft explanatory memorandum, otherwise, and asked whether the Commission was currently discussing any other draft rather than what the Minister had presented to us. Figure 6 on page 98 of the draft explanatory memorandum reflects the possible impact of changes on net wages and net pensions. If it seems like it is interesting, I can read the entire protocol, but it is possible for all members of the Riigikogu to receive the protocol. It is always easy to come here before you and say one sentence: the draft was discussed, no amendments were proposed and postponed. That's one way. The second option is to talk about what the various parties have pointed out and to discuss whether these are issues that could be discussed between the first and second readings. The members of the Riigikogu should learn one thing: laws are passed in the Riigikogu by three readings and it is always possible to propose amendments between the first reading and the second reading. And at first reading, you can think and try to feel whether one, two or three of the proposals in the Chamber are something that could be discussed further in the Commission. I brought some proposals that seemed good in order to increase the productivity of pension funds, out of this hall, and hoped that I would see during the forthcoming speeches whether these proposals were something that could be discussed further in the Commission, or whether these proposals did not seem to be good. The Reform Party has also drawn up a single draft on the same subject, with a number of good ideas, and we expect proposals from them. Three things are important when this law is passed: that people can manage at retirement age; that pension funds can produce the maximum for those who hold their shares there; and thirdly that they can invest in the Estonian economy. As the Estonian economy grows, taxes will grow, and therefore pensions will grow. That's why I had this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U242	Thank you. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U243	President-in-Office of the Council. Envoys! The pension reform agreed by coalition parties creates greater flexibility to make financial decisions for Estonian residents. Of course, the reform raises the question of the extent to which people can plan their future pension and whether they are prepared to take responsibility for their financial behaviour. Thanks to the reform, Estonians have in essence an additional mechanism for collecting their pensions, and the reform will also create a platform where banks and investment funds will develop and provide investment services, including by contributing to improving people's knowledge in the area of investment. I repeat that the reform opens up new opportunities, but it is undoubtedly important for people to view their future pensions and savings with greater responsibility. On the other hand, it is extremely important that people do not interpret reform as a one-off measure to address their domestic problems. According to statistics, 30% of Estonian residents live from payday to payday and there is almost a cent of free savings. When money comes up, it's always a temptation to spend it right now. Therefore, our aim is to make it clear to people that if they really decide to withdraw money from the second pillar of the pension, then the subsequent costs must be reasonable. For example, this money could be invested in education, health or new savings. Everyone has to make it clear: if money has been used improperly, the pension will inevitably be smaller in old age. But in any case, the public debate that comes with this reform will make people think more about their financial behaviour and future pensions. I would like to highlight another problem that is indirectly linked to this reform. We need to be prepared to activate the so-called financial crooks, which offer people good opportunities to invest. The issue has been topical in recent months, and many bona fide people have lost their money. When the pension reform comes into force, both the police and citizens themselves should be more careful to prevent this kind of fraud. In any case, I support the reform, but at the same time I think it is important to contribute to communication so that people feel more confident about tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U244	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Andres Sutt Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U245	Thank you. Three more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U246	Five plus three minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U247	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Reform of the pension system is certainly one of the most important, perhaps the most important, choices and decision-making places in its composition. It is therefore very important that we understand the responsibility that comes with this decision. Perhaps in a very simplified way: we have a choice between improving the pension system by maintaining a compulsory funded pension, so that our pensions will be similar in the future to those in Finland, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands, or doing what the government proposes to go 17 years ago in time, breaking down the creation so far and doing as Poland and Hungary did then to do again, as Poland did, starting to rebuild again. To the question of what problem we are still solving, we did not actually get an answer from the draft explanatory memorandum or from today's debate. In reality, this bill only adds to the problems. Why? For a very simple reason: because, without compulsory funded pension, pensions will be smaller in the future; the second pillar funds will not make investments that would help to develop the Estonian economy and will not achieve the objective that the Minister spoke about here; the competitiveness of the Estonian economy will certainly be smaller; less jobs with high wages and economic growth will be more volatile. This is not all I have made up, it has been spoken about by Eesti Pank, it has been spoken about by the Development Monitoring Centre, it has been spoken about by the National Audit Office, this is actually shown by the explanatory memorandum of the Ministry of Finance's own draft. When this reform took place 17 years ago, the central objective was to alleviate the problems of ageing. As the Minister said, he simply does not believe in such long-term predictions. However, I think that well-designed predictions are worth listening to and taking into account. I have no reason to question Eesti Pank's assessment that, without the second pillar, pensions will be 30% lower in the future. The worst thing we can do is demolish a functioning system and perpetuate the lowest pensions of the European Union in Estonia, then as a percentage of the last salary. The high risk of poverty for pensioners living alone remains. It was just now that we were accused, or the Reform Party, of standing against freedom. No, you're not! We are in favour of freedom with two hands, but we are in favour of real freedom. And real freedom is born of people actually having accumulated financial assets in retirement savings. The draft second pillar is said to give a great deal of freedom of choice when investing its own money. But this freedom is deceiving. The reality is different. As was said, the pension investment account has exactly the same limitations as the ordinary investment account. So what kind of freedom are we really talking about? Fortunately, during this debate, it turned out that investing small sums of money itself is much more expensive than using common investment, together with investment. We were talking about losing 9%; it could also grow to 12%, simply as transaction fees. Co-investment is always cheaper. When we look at how much money has been accumulated in the second pillar, we see that this money is 4.7 billion, of which 600 million have been placed in Estonia. For the first time in the period of independence, we have actually been able to raise public capital. Looking ahead, it can be said that in seven or eight years' time, if we do not break this system, the second pillar funds will have around EUR 10 billion of it on conservative assumptions. It has been said that pension funds should invest more in the Estonian economy. That is what the Minister of Finance said, as the chairman of the good committee said. But the reality is different. We can already see the decisions of pension funds that, since they are not sure what happens next, they are not investing in the Estonian financial market because it is not liquid. And they're right about that. The Minister said it was a cartel agreement and a political choice. I think the funds are doing exactly what they have to do. They stand for the interests of the owners of the fund unit, i.e. they perform their due diligence. The draft explanatory memorandum also states very nicely that the reduction in investments in pension funds in Estonia is most hitting medium- and small-sized enterprises. The result is lower economic growth, lower incomes and lower pensions. So it goes exactly the opposite of what the Minister of Finance said, exactly the opposite of what the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs said. If we really want to grow the Estonian economy, we will create the conditions for pension funds to invest in our economy. In summary: In my opinion, the National Audit Office rightly points out in its comments that we are currently discussing one part of the pension system, one aspect of the second pillar, it is compulsory. At the same time, we're losing a big picture before our eyes. We actually need to talk about how the pension system, as a whole, would guarantee the well-being of the population in the future, including pensioners, and that the system would be sustainable. It is all the more regrettable that the preparation of the draft has been hasty and that the Minister actually ignored all the analyses, their conclusions, in this Chamber today. I am thinking of Eesti Pank, the Centre for Development Monitoring, the National Audit Office, the International Monetary Fund. However, he could not point out any authoritative analysis that would support the assertion that the impact of this law will lead to higher pensions in the future. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs itself was critical, indicating that there is no comparison with other countries in the draft explanatory memorandum. And neither is it clear which problem we are solving. It's a ministry run by the same government. It is also very regrettable that this draft puts short-term interests ahead of the long-term. In order not to get the biggest political brawl of the 21st century and to go so far as we wanted to do better, but it turned out as usual, we cannot support this bill and we propose that it be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U248	Next, on behalf of the EKRE Group, please speak to Mr Pohlak.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U249	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for trust in the people of Estonia. We give them more freedom of choice, the right to decide on the use of our money! Listening to the questions today and the dramatic speeches of the opposition, it seemed that someone was forced to withdraw money from the other pillar at gunpoint. I repeat, this is not the case. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, People simply gain discretion and freedom of choice. Person, the Estonian person can decide for himself how best it is for him. One thing that has not been mentioned very much in this remote control today is that, in fact, support for this reform is significant in Estonian society. 70% of those who join the second pillar, i.e. those directly involved, support the voluntaryisation of this pillar. EKRE is a popular party and our group supports this draft. We give the people of Estonia more decision-making and freedom of choice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U250	Thank you. On behalf of the Isamaa Group, Helir-Valdor Seeder, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U251	Ladies and gentlemen, I listened very carefully to this discussion today. And I am pleased that this discussion was still substantive, despite the fact that it was not so much about the draft as about the issue at large. And I very much agree with the representative of the Reform Party who said that this is the most important reform of this coalition in recent years or the most important change in Estonian politics. I think this is one of the most important changes in recent decades at all. And why are we doing this today? Because the pension system currently in force is a pension or pension insurance system, whatever we call it, the biggest social and financial failure of the Republic of Estonia. We have been offered the world's worst product, which has been available for 17 years, to the tune of four and a half billion euros, with almost 90% of this money being taken out of the Estonian economy. And all this at the expense of the present and the future, that is to say, at the expense of current pensioners. The money placed there, as demonstrated by the current 17-year practice, will not produce what we expect from one pension system for future pensioners. It also means living at the expense of the future. I think that when we see that such a mistake has been made, it is good and right to admit it and to change the situation. The current coalition has gone this way of not only wanting to make the pension system voluntary, but also to create the conditions for a sustainable pension system, to give people greater opportunities to save and also to invest, to decide their own money. Nothing will be broken by this reform. No one is being deprived of any rights. Anyone who is satisfied with the existing situation may continue in the second pillar as they wish. But people get more opportunities. There are three major and important changes to the broad plan. First of all, the optional option, which of course also involves responsibility, is a very big and fundamental change. We free people from coercion. Secondly, the creation of an investment account, which is indeed necessary for a very small proportion of people whose financial literacy is very good. I'm sure there are people. And third, perhaps even the most important thing is to change the current payout system. This is the most inhumane of all of the current pension systems. This has been understood and recognised by opposition ambassadors, who have submitted draft amendments to the payout system in particular. So the proposals put forward by the coalition and the opposition have some common ground. I believe that previous discussions, as well as today's discussion, have shown that we have taken a major step forward. Everyone has acknowledged that the current pension system needs a serious reform. My limited time does not allow me to speak for very long here, but I would like to comment on some of the things that have arisen in the earlier debate. Eesti Pank's analysis of whether we trust Eesti Pank's analysis. I am very critical of the analysis that Eesti Pank recently presented. First a press release was made and later a few pages of explanation were added. What have we been offered? There was offered a view for decades in advance, a collection period of returns that did not correspond to the reality of the past. In the future, Eesti Pank believes that the situation will change dramatically and the return will increase in such a way that there will be no new economic and financial crises for the visible future. During the payout period, a yield of 2% is seen; current practice has shown a minus. The Isamaa Group told Eesti Pank that, along with such forecasts of 30, 40 and 50 years, we can provide a summary of the past, the 17 years that have passed. We know what has actually happened in the economy. We have offered to carry out an analysis that if the second pillar had not been in this form, this money would have accumulated in the pension fund and remained in the Estonian economy: how much would the Estonian people have wages higher, how much would the pension have been higher and how much would the gross domestic product of Estonia be larger. Eesti Pank has refused to carry out such an analysis. Eesti Pank has refused to analyse the past by taking certain facts in order to assess what has happened. But he knows exactly what's going on in 40 and 50 years. It doesn't create much trust. There have been stories of fear and horror that the retirement age will be raised during this reform. No lifting! Let us not frighten people that pensions will be reduced by 30% and retirement age will rise, people will be poor, the migration wave will be free. You know, these are absolutely not related to this reform and it is not fair and correct to describe this draft reform with such words. The last thing I would definitely like to mark is the constitutional barrier, which has been quite a bit talked about. I understand that we will have to deal with this either way, because law firms also work hard to order financial institutions. If this barricade has occurred at all, it has occurred at the moment when the current system was created. People are placed in different situations, people are treated differently. Participation was given the opportunity to join the second pillar and not to join the second pillar. The payout system also provides for differences: who have a smaller sum accumulated, they will be paid 4 + 2% already today. After all, ministers have been bombarded in briefings with questions about this 4 and 2%. So that's the situation. I very much hope that everyone involved will take this very seriously and will not shop behind any legal nuances in order to avoid any substantive reform. I hope that Estonia really wants to introduce a sustainable pension system. I wish all members of the Riigikogu: let us be creative and contribute to the implementation of this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U252	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U253	Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by congratulating the coalition. And I think the first thing to do is to give credit to Helir-Valdor Seedr, who has had a thing to do with this pension system for many years. It's been his strong desire to reverse it. I do not like the idea of breaking up the system, but I must admit that the pension system can be improved and must be improved. Therefore, intensive discussions on how to improve this are very welcome. At the same time, I very much hope that it will not be forgotten that the discussions and the decisions that will result from them should be based on rational arguments, some common projections of the future and the scenarios that we will then use as a society to the maximum the expertise we have in common. Unfortunately, the coalition doesn't want to do that very much. The population is ageing, the number of retirement age is increasing and the number of working age is decreasing. That's a fact. According to Statistics Estonia, we now have 3.2 persons of working age for one pensionable age, 2.7 in ten years and 2.1 in 30 years. We can discuss nuances, but the trend is very clear. The dismantling of the savings pension system will therefore inevitably lead to one of the following scenarios in the future. The pension does not guarantee most elderly people a chance to live because there are significantly fewer taxpayers and there are significantly more pensioners. Or the retirement age will be increased considerably more than what has been planned so far in order to reduce pensioners and increase the number of employees. Or there will be a significant increase in the tax burden on future workers, today's children and young people from which pensions can be financed. For example, it has been estimated that the current 33% social tax should be paid in 2040 instead of the current 33% social tax to maintain the same pension/wage ratio, which is just over 40% in 20 years' time. Or there will be a mass of foreign workers in Estonia, provided they want to come here, of course, to ensure an increase in the working age population. This forecast also shows that these are not small numbers. In order to ensure that the ratio of working age and pensioners is maintained at the same level as today by 2040, migrant workers should represent 27% of the total workforce. Good coalition ambassadors! If you decide to demolish the funded pension scheme, you must also answer the question which of these scenarios you are referring to. This is not all I am saying here for the first time, it has been said repeatedly in society and in this Chamber in recent months. Eesti Pank, employers and trade unions, 41 economists and experts have made an appeal to us, not to mention international organisations such as the OECD and the IMF. Even the Ministry of Social Affairs, although the minister there is also part of the coalition, has criticised the draft very strongly. Unfortunately, the proposals made by the Ministry of Social Affairs have essentially not reached this bill. In this context, it seems that the arguments do not matter. So I'm trying to illustrate it to you, to illustrate it. I can't say I'm making real wood and red, I'm making cardboard and gold. I'm asking for three minutes of extra time, it's gonna take a little while!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U254	Three more minutes, please! [[Indrek Saar is releasing glittery pucks from the confederation cannon. There's a bang, there's screams in the hall.]] I am not sure that such a thing can be done in the Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U255	I don't know, but when the New Year's Eve party goes on, they do this in a lot of places.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U256	But not in the Riigikogu Hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U257	Yes! Some say it's beautiful, some say it's pointless. But I don't want to discuss it today, it's a question of everyone's own world concept and taste, how to evaluate fireworks, golden pucks and all that, and how to interpret the money and energy you spend on it. However, a responsible person does not make children and others happy at celebrations, taking money from a child's piggy bank at the expense of those who are not yet able to decide whether it is reasonable or not. A reasonable person does not leave this result to the children. I'm going to get a vacuum cleaner now, but you good coalition ambassadors, please think about whether you want to leave this momentary gold shine on your children's and grandchildren' necks. The Social Democrats also propose that this draft be rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U258	The Social Democrats have now made a solemn promise to clean up every piece of garbage in this hall. But now I have adopted the motion by the Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group to reject 108 at first reading. With your permission, I will unite these proposals and we will have to vote on it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal by the Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group to reject the draft law amending the law on funded pensions and related other laws at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 40 votes to 53 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. . [[Summing in the hall]] Proposal by the Governing Commission... What? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is not yet closed. Quiet, please! The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 108. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 16 December at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-02_U259	Now the trial continues with an open microphone. Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. As there are no requests for the floor, the session is closed. I'm gonna ask you not to do this kind of pyrotechnic test again in this hall! Otherwise, we'll call for security to remove such a person from this hall. Thank you. Have a good night. Closure of the sitting at 6.58 p.m.
