ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Let's get started. There's a lot of talk. We are somehow trying to start the 3rd working week Thursday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the handing over of drafts and enquiries. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U2	Good President! Good ambassadors! I will report to Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige on an inquiry from 19 ambassadors on the issue of ensuring psychological crisis assistance in Estonia. The task of the state is to create a secure environment that reduces risks and prevents risks. For this purpose, the Riigikogu is empowered to build up a legal space, government agencies are empowered to ensure that the rules guaranteeing security are met, local authorities have to organise local life and, of course, each of us has the task of avoiding action or behaviour that threatens others. However, the country has another role to play: reducing the pain of victims of tragic accidents, their loved ones, rescuers and the police and the community, helping to cope with loss and grief in order to prevent post-traumatic phenomena. The tragic events of Estonia's recent history do not allow us to forget human patience and oblige us to alleviate it. The provision of volunteer-based psychosocial crisis assistance started a few days less than 25 years ago. A professional system, organised nationally and operating around the clock, has not been established to date. Psychosocial crisis care is not an open-heart good person's comforting words, it is not post-traumatic long-term therapy or counselling, it is a professional service that requires special training. Psychosocial crisis assistance must be a natural part of the national emergency response and crisis response plan, which will be triggered together with the action of rescue workers immediately after the accident. Transferring an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige in the Riigikogu today is not an randomly elected time. The pain of the loss of each individual is equivalent to the collective pain that unites Estonians. Dear members of the Riigikogu, we here and the Government of the Republic are invited to prevent and alleviate pain. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U3	Thank you. No further inquiries or drafts have been prepared for transfer. Now, presence control, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 19. We can address the agenda items. But before that, there's another important message. This is such that next week, the final event of the Model-European Parliament Forum will take place here in the Riigikogu Chamber on Monday. In this context, I would like to ask you to bring important materials from your tables and drawers after the plenary session. In short, don't leave state secrets lying on tables.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U4	Now for the items on the agenda. There are two points on the agenda. We will begin with the first reading of the Bill of Amendment of Income Tax Act 14 initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Maris Lauri, member of the Riigikogu, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Before you is the Reform Party's draft, which aims to exempt pensions from income tax on the average amount of pension. So far, Estonia has had an average pension that has been exempt from income tax. The reverse progressive income tax imposed by the previous government lost that principle. It was argued that the average pension was less than EUR 500 and thus the requirement for an average pension exemption was met. The fact that pensions are rising every year and thus the average pension is rising immediately to over EUR 500 was ignored. This approach illustrates thinking, one of which is a one- or two-year horizon and the other is delaying things, that is, the principle that we deal with it when it comes to it. It is not a wise approach, which is also indicated by the fact that in the coming year, most pensioners will have to start paying income tax on their modest income. In a letter dated 12 June to the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, the Minister of Finance confirmed that the government has decided to increase the tax-free income of pensioners by 50 euros per month. Now we know it was another empty promise from the current government. Good ambassadors, that is what is the weakness of one-off decisions: the word is given, the floor is spoken, the decisions are made exactly how it seems useful at the moment. But is it supposed to be in the wind of random decisions like this to deal with pensioners? The Bill 14 before you links pension income tax exemptions to the average pension size and thus excludes the government from any discretion in the future. As the average pension increases, the tax-free minimum will also increase for pensioners, i.e. the pension exemption. Thus, it is always guaranteed that the pension is tax-free for the average pension. A simple solution. This bill treats all pension beneficiaries in the same way, without distinctioning whether or not the pensioner is working and does not take into account what is the reason for receiving the pension. Why should working pensioners also benefit from an average pension exemption? Firstly, it is certainly a question of equal treatment for pensioners who are not in employment and who are working. If you've met working pensioners, you know that's what they usually ask about. Most people consider pensions to be benefits for long-term work, which is why they are very disturbed by the fact that pensions are treated as equal to wages. The demographic situation in Estonia means that the number of people of working age will decrease in the future, alongside the ageing population. As a country, we must make an effort to ensure that people who really want to work can work so that they are motivated to work, just as we have done with the reform of the ability to work, motivating those who would like to work to come to work. Even if this work is low, even for a few hours a week, it needs support because it also provides a small extra benefit for people to feel better, supports health, etc. We must not exclude pensioners from the labour market. At present, very many working pensioners sense that they are being treated unfairly because they are taxed at a higher rate than those who are not retired. Yes, we have a social tax credit, but this benefit is not granted by a working pensioner, but by the employer, the one who creates the job. He's motivated, but whoever works isn't motivated. Ladies and gentlemen, The current reverse graduated income tax system severely penalises survivors, i.e. children who have lost either one or both of their parents. If parents divorce and the child receives a living or support, he or she will receive it 100%. If the child has lost one or both parents forever, the support called survivor's pension will also be taxed, simply because the word 'pension' is included in that name. The deficit of the current law, namely the unequal treatment of children, has also been pointed out repeatedly by the Chancellor of Justice. The Riigikogu has so far failed to improve this matter. Does the state really have to make a profit on orphans? Do we not have enough generosity to help those in need? There aren't so many of them. Do we really not want to help those who are already hurt? I think it's litmus paper for caring and justice. I think it's very simple. Those who do not want to put an end to this injustice will no longer have the right to speak of caring. Actually, they don't care. So I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that we will proceed quickly with this bill and that injustice will be eliminated as soon as the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu allow. Thank you! I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U6	Thanks to the waitress! There is a desire to ask questions. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U7	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, Having examined this draft in detail, I can say that it is a very good draft. The principle that the average old age pension is exempt from income tax has been followed by all governments, including the previous government, for at least as long as my memory reaches, for a few decades. I remember the government said on this draft that they could not support it because the government intends to come up with a bill that will exempt the average pension. It now turns out that this draft has not, however, been done by the government. Is there any reason to hope and assume that the government will act in a state-manly manner on this draft and will really be prepared to support one very correct opposition bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U8	Thank you for your question. To be honest, I do not know what the government is thinking, because, as I pointed out, a letter from the Minister of Finance confirmed that a draft of EUR 50 would be coming, increasing the income tax exemption for non-working pensioners, but it has not come from anywhere in reality. In my speech, I indicated that the word had been broken. This further confirms the need to have a system that would put an end to this nonsense, that the word would be given once and then the word would be withdrawn, exactly as it pleases or how it should be. Let us also say that there is a feeling that if an opposition comes out with the draft, it will be rejected on the grounds that it will come out with its own draft. But I guess that's up to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U9	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U10	Thank you very much, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, We have just received the budget proposed by the government for next year. It is undoubtedly an ex-post payment of last year's caste, and it is undoubtedly a budget of word-fragileness, but there is nevertheless an exceptional pension increase of EUR 20 million. How would you, as a former Minister of Finance, use this money instead of exceptionally raising the pension of seven euros, some of which will be recovered as income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U11	Thank you for your question. This question might go a little out of the question of this bill. But it seems to me that perhaps it would have been wise to spend this money precisely where the shoe is hardest, perhaps not to give all pensioners EUR 7 or, more specifically, EUR 1.4, but to help those at the lowest level, perhaps to increase support for care needs or to give it to social services. It's a discussion place. It seems to me that it would have been smarter and fairer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U12	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The government's attitude towards solving this very serious problem is vividly demonstrated by the impact analysis of this bill that was due to come here from the Ministry of Finance came to our table this morning at 9:30. If I understand correctly, the government hopes to collect 93 million euros per year from working pensioners. If you look at macroeconomics more broadly, is such income tax available today at the same risk that bus drivers or teachers and family doctors (there are many people of retirement age in these positions) as this tax is still being forced out of the labour market? Are these things the same weight?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U14	Thank you for your question. Well, with such things, you have to look at where the scales are and what preferences are. Yes, it can be said that the situation on our labour market is such that people are motivated to work, that wage increases are fast, but that motivation is primarily in the private sector. So it can really be that the motivation of retirement age in the public sector is quite strong, along with inflation, modest wage growth and everything else. Certainly, when we talk about teachers and perhaps doctors, it is a question of the kind of responsibility that makes them work, but that does not mean that they feel well or that they feel fairly treated. So it certainly shows the possibility of choices that are considered and not considered important. Yeah, it's maybe more of a question to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U15	Thank you. Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U16	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable waitress! The question is precisely how to motivate people to work at an advanced age, so that they can also get a 'official' salary for this. Many situations have come to my attention where elderly people no longer want an official salary. Is it possible to comment on whether, in view of the current labour market situation, we should motivate these people to work as long as they are able and willing to do so, and also on the issue of paying wages officially or in the form of envelope wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U17	Thank you! Yes, we urgently need people who want to work to work. The workload does not have to be 100%, it may also be a few hours a week. In addition to the material benefits, work adds energy and keeps people healthy and active as members of society. This is a very complex area. From an economic point of view, we should see that people who want to work are motivated, but we should also look at the long-term health of these people so that they are part of society and coherent. Very many pensioners who work say that they feel that they are being treated unfairly because their wages are taxed higher than those of fellow workers, or colleagues. That's what hurts a lot of people. Well, that definitely depends on the person, if he's ready to go to the envelope salary. Fortunately, in Estonia, this motivation is modest, but surely some people will be tempted to do it, or if there is an opportunity to do it so-called innocently, they can really do it. The second thing is certainly that it can add to this cup the last enough, which is why a person chooses whether or not to continue working decides to quit. He may not give it up when he reaches retirement age, but if he could continue to work, just because of the sense of injustice, he says he doesn't want any more.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U18	Thank you. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U19	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! You spoke a lot here, in particular, about unequal treatment of working pensioners compared to non-working pensioners, but what about unequal treatment of pensioners and those who have not reached retirement age? After all, you are offering a system where, for example, a person who earns a very high salary, for example 10,000 euros per month in Estonian terms, this is a high salary, has reached retirement age at the same time, and his total income tax exemption would then be higher than that offered by you, for example, by an average teacher or by another person. Figuratively speaking, the total income tax exemption from retirement for the manager behind you would be higher than for the ordinary worker. Don't you think this is unequal treatment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U20	The level of equality or the question of what is unequal treatment or what is not is obviously different in everyone's view. As I pointed out, people sense that if their wages are taxed differently, they have been treated unequally. That's what I was pointing at. There's a lot of these people. I don't know how many pensioners you've had meetings with, I've had them. Most, I dare say that 99% of working pensioners say that they feel unfairly treated in this situation. Not everyone quits work, as I said, there's other motivation for working, but there's this sense that they're being treated unfairly. One of the reasons is that people see in my speech that I also indicated that pension is a reward for years worked, not a salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U21	Thank you. Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U22	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! It was about the bill being all right. The explanatory memorandum, on the other hand, is not good, at least in my opinion, because it would have assumed that there was a clear impact on the state budget in the explaining section. This explanation is very vague and simply says that revenue is decreasing. I am not going to ask, because you obviously do not know how much it could be in euro. But which areas have you considered taking money from teachers, the police, the fire department or some other place?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U23	Thank you for your question. As my colleague pointed out in the previous question, the calculations from the Ministry of Finance must have been received in our mailbox today at 9:30. In the case of drafts submitted by the Riigikogu, it is difficult to assume that a member of the Riigikogu, especially if he is in opposition, has the capacity to carry out computational analyses with such thoroughness as the government or political parties belonging to the government coalition. So that's why we couldn't write these particular numbers there, we just didn't have them. We sensed there were minuses, but we couldn't write them there. The question of whether and where to take away is the following question. The question we raise is whether the Riigikogu wants to restore the fair treatment of pensioners, whether or not it wants to tax pensions, whether or not it wants to tax orphans receiving a survivor's pension. That is our question. If there's an answer to that, let's move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U24	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U25	Thank you. Good waitress! I have just heard my colleague say that it is fair to take income tax on retirement, that if he, the devil, goes to work, then you also have to take income tax on pension. But the same colleague has defended the view that pension is unfair at all and that the second pillar must be abolished. What is this theoretical reason why you do not want to make the first, second and third pension pillars voluntary so that the person can decide what he does?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U26	Thank you. People who have been monitoring the analysis of financial behaviour know that, unfortunately, most people are not willing to voluntarily save, they are not doing so. Above all, people with more modest incomes do not do so. Saving opportunities, as well as the willingness to save, are higher for people with higher incomes, which means that when the mandatory element disappears, it is particularly difficult for people, especially those with lower incomes, to cope with retirement age.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U27	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U28	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Honourable waitress! My colleague brought the issue of additional pension relief for highly paid people into this Chamber. I would like to point out that the person who receives EUR 10,000 will pay the first pillar, the Social Fund EUR 2 000, or the average pension for almost four people. A pensioner who is already paid EUR 2600 will pay the average pension each month from his salary to the Social Fund and, if he receives it as a pension in the same month, then the tax will be deducted a second time. Do you think it is right to tax a working pensioner twice in the same month, first with social tax and then with income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U29	Thank you. I at all believe that, in the case of direct taxes such as social taxes and income taxes, double taxation must be avoided as far as possible. Unfortunately, there are many of these places in the current tax system.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U30	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In 2018, the government promised a new regulation to stop higher taxation on working pensioners. In our opinion on the Reform Party bill, the government again promises to increase the tax-free income of pensioners by EUR 50. But we see that there is no amount of money earmarked for this in the draft budget transferred yesterday. My question is, what are we going to do with this government that keeps lying, cheating and making unprotected promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U32	Thank you. Very hard to say. We will try to correct the actions of this government, even with the same bill, which was introduced a long time ago, in the spring. Looks like we saw this thing coming, they didn't see it or they didn't plan on doing it. You can't quite see into people's heads, but, unfortunately, you get the impression that there's been a lot of breaking promises in this government. I don't know, I always feel really bad about lying, which is why I avoid lying.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U33	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U34	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I read with interest the government's opinion, signed by Finance Minister Martin Helme. Then I opened a pre-election programme for the EKRE. It says pensions are exempt from income tax. I'm not such a big expert in this field, I'm sure you know that better than I do. Does it seem to you that there is a certain difference between the two positions that has changed somewhat? Is it right to conclude that EKRE and Martin Helme have changed their position quite a bit compared to the spring, pre-election period?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U35	Thank you. Yes, I have exactly the same feeling that opinions and positions have changed dramatically.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U36	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Yesterday in Question Time, the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, answered our questions. One of the questions he was asked was about teachers' salaries. He was very happy that in three consecutive years it has risen to EUR 100 and this year or next year's budget will rise to EUR 65. When I asked him to do one mathematical operation, he had to admit that teachers' salaries had fallen compared to the other part of society's income growth and the salary increase last year. This excellent government led by Jüri Ratas and the previous government made an excellent income tax system, so teachers, who received average or close wages, actually started to pay more. Now we have reached pensioners who will have to pay income tax on average pensions. What is the next place that those people who are precisely in a weaker position are going to be taken by the state in order to get the budget together and avoid any disadvantages?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U38	Thank you. If we limit ourselves to income tax, we will see that policemen, rescue officers, all those whose income or wages are on the rise, unfortunately, are shifting the added little more and more to where they are going to be taxed higher. If you look at tax theory, it is true that all the tax systems that have absolute numbers inside will at one point arrive at the point where everyone will be taxed at the highest rate. This will be done either faster or slower depending on the order. I can recall from my very far-reaching practice that in the early 1990s, when we also had progressive income tax, there were ideas that a higher tax rate (i was a short-time official at the time) would have been 50%. Later on, looking at the practice, it was clear that we would have reached a 50% tax rate in 1.51⁄2 years. Today, we are not moving so fast, fortunately, inflation is slower, wage increases are not as fast as they were at that time, but they are remarkable. So in the private sector, this movement will reach it relatively quickly, probably more slowly in the public sector, but it will still happen. I think that the problem may become even more acute in positions which, in addition to modest wage increases, are moving quietly to higher and higher levels of taxation. So that's the system we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U39	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Our good co-worker Jürgen Ligi asked me to ask an ex-ju question so that you could answer briefly. The question is this. In general, I have the impression that you are in favour of simplifying the tax system, of a simple tax system. This proposal, which you are presenting now, makes the tax system more difficult, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U41	No, I'm not. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] For a very simple reason: he takes out any of this, and no matter what, it's the thing that always makes the system more complicated. If there's a specific order in the system, it's understandable. What made it difficult was, please, made up by your party. In my personal opinion, there is only one major nonsense that has been made in the Estonian tax system, unfortunately, precisely also introduced by your party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U42	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U43	Good manager! Good waitress! I think it's a pretty smart bill. But I remember the startle of the Central Party Group at the time when this amendment came to see if it really was such a mistake and what we were doing. One of my colleagues came up with a very cynical statement that, uh, we don't have to do anything, these are the constituents of the Reform Party. Of course, not everyone agreed. So I think it's bullshit. But my question is how much this could be to restore this situation. I'm saying it was a work accident that the Prime Minister's party at the time found out about, as a surprise.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U44	Thank you! I'm sorry, I don't have any of those freshly sent data from the Ministry of Finance, so I'll tell you by heart, as far as I can remember. But if we turn this thing around, you could say that when these changes were introduced, these things were the other way around. The income tax exemption for non-working pensioners would be about 18 million, which I think was the minus of 18 million. The amount of pensioners in employment is, yes, about 100 million. That $100 million was how much more money the government got in that order of magnitude. The positive effect is certainly that all or most of the money that pensioners receive will go back to consumption. So the whole effect of the sorry, unfortunately, I don't have the numbers in mind right now, it was probably 70 million, 80 million or something. But that depends on how much of that money goes back to consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U45	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U46	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Thank you, dear waitress. Personally, I very much appreciate your proposal. But here's the question. If you quote so much about this bill about the good programme of the EKRE and now so fiercely defending the positions we have written off, why are you so stubbornly ruling out cooperation with us and still doing so now, even though you claim that you want as good a thing as we do?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U47	Thank you. I must say, of course, that I do not think I have once quoted EKRE. Perhaps you have seen all of this in our idea, reflect our views, and have written something down from us. I would just like to remind you that the pension proposal of the Reform Party was that we would accelerate economic growth and that, as a result, tax revenues would be better and pensions would grow faster, so that everyone would become richer or richer and better than now. As far as cooperation with you is concerned, there are other reasons that do not concern this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U48	Raimond Kaljulaid, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U49	Thank you! Good waitress, I really appreciate the last explanation. I'm really glad we're seeing it the same way. I'll take it from here, maybe you'll help me make a little bit more sense of this government's pension policy. As I remember, in the spring elections, the Centre Party's position was to raise pensions by 100 euros, in my opinion, the EKRE's position was to double pensions and also to exempt income tax, and Fatherland, as we know, did not allow the pension increase, but promised to make the second pension pillar optional, or how we will interpret it. Let me get this straight, seeing now what the government has really started to do, that the pension policy of the Fatherland is actually being implemented, and that other partners have given up their policies aimed at pensioners as if they had given up? Is that the correct interpretation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U50	Yeah, I think it's pretty much like that, too. This 1.4 euro may also give room to the Centre Party. But it's good enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U51	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, Here's my question. How do you think the motivation of a young teacher is ultimately affected by his being taxed higher than that of a teacher who has reached retirement age?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U53	Thank you. In terms of pay, they are equally taxed. As I said, the sense of justice is different for people. As far as I am concerned, and my colleagues have spoken to pensioners, I can say that most pensioners perceive pensions as a reward for work done over long years, or a fair compensation for their efforts. They do not see it as a salary, but they see it as more than ever lost, a very low wage. So I don't think we can talk about young people feeling any worse because, in terms of pay, they're paid exactly the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U54	Jürgen Ligi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U55	Thank you. Good waitress! I return to the offer of the coalition mentioned by Helle-Moonika Helme. He said that the income tax exemption for an average pension was the idea of an EKRE. Please confirm to him that the principle that the average pension is exempt from income tax in the RES of the Government of Taavi Clothing is really the idea of EKRE.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U56	Thanks for asking. I remember that the average pension in Estonia has been tax-free, I dare not say a hundred percent since the beginning of time, but it has been so since I remember. That is why this border was raised from time to time, and I am very sure that the governments of this century have kept it tax-free. So it's definitely not an EKRE fiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U57	Peter Ernits, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U58	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you again for presenting our positions. You proposed the amount that would actually be needed to restore this situation, but we are coming today. In the light of the current climate hysteria, we should spend about 160 million from next year, find that amount. My question to you, in order to be modern, is: what would you sacrifice for the 160 million that we should contribute to being climate-neutral by 2050, is this pension income tax exemption 100 million? What else? What choice would you have if you were the Minister of Finance now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U59	Thank you. I am indebted to the answer, because I came here to introduce the draft Income Tax Act, and I have therefore not gone into other national spending areas, including climate spending.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U60	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U61	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! You talked a lot about what is fair and what someone thinks is fair and seems fair. Is it fair that 4% of today's pensioner is taken from the pensioner and transferred to the second pillar for pensioners who retire in 20 years' time? In essence, we are taking some EUR 300 million off the current pensioner's account, with this money, the pension could be higher, and then we say that pensioners are in difficulty and receive a very small pension. Is that fair? Who created this system back in the day? Should this money have come from outside the social security fund, which would then have raised the second pillar?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U62	Thank you. This topic goes beyond the so-called approach to this draft, but I am trying to answer this question very generally. How does the first pillar pension come about? This is known to be the result of social tax contributions, which are based on wages, employment and also on the inflation component. These intercourses have been shifted one way or the other over time. The previous government also did so by reducing the impact of the so-called income component, so that, above all, the first pillar of the pension still depends on how the economy is doing. The decision to allocate 4%, knowing that the pensioner will receive 4% through the second pillar, is a very long-standing decision. I wasn't in charge of making that decision. I admit that I did not follow this discussion until nuances, and that is why I cannot say what these considerations and arguments were. But it was clear that in order to motivate people to join the second pillar, I would remind you that a number of people could do so voluntarily, it was necessary to create the motivation that the state would put more money in there. Taking away 2% of a person's salary is clearly not enough. The pension system would work well if at least 6% of the person's salary were to go there. At that time the choice of 4 + 2 was made, that 4% would be put by the state and 2% would be put by the person himself, taking into account the wage levels at that time. That was the choice. We can always discuss whether these proportions could ever be changed and increased in the future, and whether this could be at the expense of people's incomes, but this is no longer the subject of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U63	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Since you have used the expression 'I feel the same way' in answering a question from one of our good colleagues today, I will use the same rhetoric and ask you this. It seems to me that your party, when presenting this draft, has based itself on the principle of a well-known disposition in civil proceedings against other parties. Is my feelings right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U65	Thank you. I can't answer that. I admit that I do not know the content of this foreign word.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U66	Urmas Kruuse, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the meantime, you became a little saddened when a good colleague, Mr Helme, asked questions and clearly signaled that they supported our draft. I say that we must respond more amusingly and defend our positions more courageously, because there are more supporters in this House than only our group. So, power-kick!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U68	George Jaanson. Or... Maris Lauri, do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U69	I said thank you for the power that Urmas gave me. I am somewhat saddened that no questions have come about the survivor's pension. I do not know whether this is simply clear to everyone, and everyone supports this matter so that it becomes tax-free and that injustice is eliminated. So I'm counting on strong support for this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U71	Now Jüri Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! The discussion here is gaining momentum. I hear points of view here, which can be summarised, in general terms and on the subject, in a way that people of retirement age should, as if, be made responsible for us raising the salaries of teachers, policemen and rescuers or dealing with climate neutrality, that if we do not take income tax from them, nothing else can be done. Is such accountability properly addressed, or should the basic burden of taxation or state spending still be borne by the working age population? After all, retirement labour is actually an added value that we can do much better in the country by stimulating.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U73	Thank you. Yes, it also seems to me that taxation should, above all, really be on the working people. I would like to remind you that, according to our laws, people can work without retirement even after retirement age has arrived. Unfortunately, the previous government made a draft, which we finally endorsed here, which this financial motivation, i.e. if you retire later, you will receive a higher pension, with a somewhat reduced pension. Our approach is that, above all, those people who are already retired and then think that they could work alongside it, for example, they have retired for two or a half years, and then decide that they will go to work at a low burden, which will help and motivate. It is likely that some people would also continue to work on reaching retirement age, as they would have little financial motivation. The so-called "law-based" postponement option is such a small financial incentive that they will not do so. Very many are not familiar with this either. That's the problem. If you postpone your retirement period (currently 65 years of retirement age, for example, you could retire at 70 and not withdraw your pension for five years) and if this motivation were to make a person feel motivated to work, then you could discuss whether this should be the case. It is still aimed at making sure that people do not feel bad (i am just talking about the key to working pensioners) so that they do not feel unequally treated or harassed because they feel that way. But we need them to work, and they really need it. I know very nice pensioners, who are precisely because they can work, such fun, nice and very energetic. With working collectives, where there are young and old, they are the nicest and most successful collectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U74	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U75	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Looking at the economy as a whole in Estonia, we can see that a lot of important people go to various seminars, they look at each other and they discuss where the workforce comes from. However, the government is struggling with these signals and excluding experienced workers from the labour market. Toomas Luman, the chairman of the board of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, was in the very remote position where you are today, who said that it would give the wrong signal to the labour market and also cause envelope wages. Similarly, we generally know from studies carried out in the world that a person who works and is necessary for society in his role lives a healthier and more fulfilling life. Its signal has somehow been reset by the coalition. Please also talk about a survivor's pension, which no one has yet asked about. I'll ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U76	Thank you. I'm explaining this thing that maybe a lot of people don't remember or haven't noticed. It is true that if the child's parents divorce and receive a living, it is not taxed. If he or she receives any other benefits, for example if the parent does not pay off his or her maintenance, he or she will not be taxed either. If an orphan, having lost one or both parents, receives a benefit from the State called a survivor's pension, it will be taxed. Yeah, money doesn't replace parents, but maybe he can help you get over some things more easily, solve material problems, especially if there's a family where one of the parents has died in an accident or died from an illness. Then the child's income will be taxed. I think emotionally you all understand that this isn't right. I'm not talking about justice here, I'm saying it's just a lie. The Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out that this is an unequal treatment within the meaning of the Constitution. We should get rid of it quickly, get rid of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U77	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The copyright of political ideas is not being registered, but on the basis of the questions that have been heard here today, I have a hunch that this bill will receive potentially great support in this Chamber (I refer to the neighbours sitting on the left). If it goes like this, what does it look practically like? Does this concern the budget for next year? How long could this process technically take to make this draft practically work?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U79	Thank you. Surely this is now the place where it can be said that, after the first reading, everyone will be able to table amendments and also discuss within the Commission whether some elements will be put into effect quickly and a few more slowly. There is a chance that we can discuss how to implement it more accurately during the discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U80	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'm going on about the survivor's pension. We have indeed discussed this subject in the Committee on Social Affairs, on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. In fact, the Ministry of Social Affairs, which has promised to improve the situation, also recognises the problem. I understand that, in fact, this is not a matter of substance but of form. The fact that we call survivor's pension a pension has evolved this way, but it is basically a grant. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U81	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U82	Thank you. The problem seems to be that this financial contribution is called a pension. In our tax system, everything that is listed under the pension goes under taxation. We also had a discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs during the previous term about the fact that some people are still receiving disability pensions and why they are treated differently when those who go under the new system are treated under the assessment of their ability to work. That's the same thing. The fact that the State's contribution is referred to as a pension means that it will be taxed. That's it. Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U83	Kristen Michal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U84	Good manager! Honourable waitress! When it turned out at one point that pensioners would receive additional taxation, I remember that the then Minister of Social Affairs, Kaia Iva, was pretty scared, apologized and promised that everything would be fine. George Ratas hasn't even apologized. Have you heard he's done this? He has apologized for many other things, but he has not apologized for the fact that this government is the first in Estonia's history to tax pensioners further. Maybe he should do it, I don't know. But I have a question. Have you understood in the course of the procedure or discussion of this bill why the coalition does not want to support this bill, but wants to process it indefinitely and to die?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U85	Thank you. No, I don't know that. Why and how will this bill proceed? I really hope that the bill will find support in this Chamber and we will proceed quickly with it, so that it will not remain dusty in the corner of a drawer or shelf. Why did this thing ever happen? I think that part of the people, most of them, was that things were done in a hurry, without thinking it through. That's why I'm terrified of anything, any major change that I want to make quickly, but that needs more analysis. I am referring, above all, to the destruction of the pension system. But I still suspect that maybe this apology didn't come because they knew exactly what was being done. Those who had not understood what was being done were startled and apologized, and those who had understood did not apologize.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U86	Erkki Keldo, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U87	Thank you. Good waitress! If we look at the Ministry's calculations, we will see that the draft law would have the greatest impact on both working and non-working pensioners, whose monthly service is between EUR 500 and 1,200, which would have the greatest impact on these pensioners. If, under today's law, the average pension is taxed, our amendment will remove them from income tax, which, in my opinion, would at least seem fair to me. Personally, I do not see that the country should collect the most tax on pensioners who are working or not working and who have an income of EUR 500.1200. Do you think it's fair that today's government has gone this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U88	Thank you. This shows, in fact, the perverse nature of the current tax system, which treats precisely those whose incomes are beginning to exceed the minimum and are increasing. This is a mistake in this tax system. That's why I'm saying it's reverse progressive income tax. Steps always lead to an increase in the tax rate when steps change, and that is exactly what has happened to this system. This is a mistake in this tax system. If it had been continued, such problems would not have arisen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U89	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no more questions. Now it's the co-rapporteur's turn. The co-rapporteur is Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U90	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 17 September, the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party 14. Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, was invited, and this bill was presented to us, as he did now, by Maris Lauri. There were a number of questions. A few questions, I think, should be said: one was about setting a deadline and the other was about the capabilities of the IT systems. When we talked about the deadline, Maris Lauri said that this was the subject of the Commission's debate. When we were talking about IT capabilities, it turned out that unfortunately today's situation is that according to the Ministry of Social Affairs it would not be possible to switch to such a system or change until 2021. These are the two concerns about this bill today. SKIAIS2 has not yet arrived, and SKIAIS1 is exactly where it was at the time when several of today's colleagues were ministers. Unfortunately, the IT system does not always work as well as we would like, although the Committee on Social Affairs has always, as they say, kept a sharp eye on it so that all things can be done at the right time. The Commission's decision was to send the draft to the hall. I do not think that anyone in this Chamber is opposed to the fact that the exemption from income tax on pensions could be linked to an average pension. There are certainly different concepts of whether income should be taxed differently or not. In the meantime, some questions may have been misunderstood in the Chamber, so I say that incomes are taxed in the same way, there is a pension or salary within this income, up to EUR 1200, in the case of income, EUR 500 is still exempt from income tax, regardless of the form of that income. But thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U91	Thank you, Mr. Co-Rapporteur. You will also be asked questions. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. We received impact analyses of this bill from the Ministry of Finance this morning. If we had had these analyses on the table in the Commission, then perhaps the Commission's debate would have taken a bit of a different direction or become a slightly more inclusive character. I'm gonna have to ask you about this data now. You've been getting to know them since last night. They came to us this morning. If I understand correctly, EUR 239 million of income tax will be collected annually from working pensioners and the bill will reduce the tax burden on working pensioners by EUR 93 million. Push it over if it's not like that. Why is it that this much-accredited reverse-ranking income tax system collects tax revenue from those who are least insured, the most vulnerable: recipients of maternity benefits, survivors' pensions, recipients of redundancy benefits and also those unfortunate working pensioners...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U93	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U94	Why is that? What kind of tax policy is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U95	Thank you, Aivar, for a very good question. The survivor's pension must have been taxed as long as I've been in this Chamber, no matter what government it's been. However, when we are talking about pension taxation, I would emphasise once again that, in the case of income taxation up to EUR 1200, all of us have a tax of EUR 500 on income, EUR 0 on income, up to EUR 2200 on taxation, and, in the case of income amounting to EUR 220, income tax will be paid from the first euro on income. For example, if the income tax is 1200 euros, the pension is 500 euros and the salary is 700 euros, is the tax charged on wages or pensions? It's up to this person to agree, but 500 euros is tax-free in any case. It can always be said that pension is what is exempt from income tax. It's just the way it is. But when we're talking about this bill, as you remember, the committee sent him to this hall. The Commission did not decide that this draft would be bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U96	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U97	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! My question continues to concern the survivor's pension. Did you have this subject discussed in the Commission and did the government admit that it is a problem that we are now also taxing a survivor's pension?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U98	Thank you for a very good question, Liina. The Finance Commission has sent a letter with my signature to the Ministry of Finance to solve this problem. We have also received the answer that the Ministry is processing it and preparing the draft. But there is a bill here today, and we can simply say that in the spring we did this on behalf of the appeal committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U99	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U100	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I listened to what you were saying to do, but you see, the IT system won't shoot or it won't be ready or whatever. And I think it's interesting that this IT system didn't bother you when you decided to impose a higher tax on pensioners, then the system was no obstacle, so over 90 million more were collected from pensioners. So, of course, this is not very serious. But my question concerns the additional tax exemption for the 50 euros promised next year for pensioners. Some time ago, members of the government said that pensioners would receive an additional tax exemption of EUR 50 next year. This week, when the budget was handed over, it turned out to be nothing. So where did it disappear to, where did it go? I am sure you spoke about this in the Commission, too, in the course of the procedure for this draft. What happened to the additional income tax exemption of the EUR 50 promised?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U101	Thank you for a very good question. Starting with the end, I do not remember whether or not it was on the table in the committee, I do not remember very much that it was. But for the first half, when the government presents the draft state budget for next year, it is a government proposal. As we know, all drafts become laws when they have passed three readings in the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu makes a final decision on which resources are made. So all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to make proposals between the first reading and the second reading. The Reform Party also has four very strong members in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I hope that good and right decisions will ultimately be made. It should always be taken into account that money is exactly what it is, that it does not usually come from one pocket to another, but that priorities need to be looked at. My question is the same as he was negotiating. At that point, it was said that the IT solution could not be made; one, the other and the third government could not be blamed for it. If I remember correctly, perhaps 2011 or 2012 has already started to be implemented by the SKAIS2. Earlier. There are several ministers in this Chamber. Everyone has worked hard to get the SKIAIS2 ready, but unfortunately, he has not yet made it anywhere in the big picture. But it is definitely up and this order of magnitude is more or less the same as the seven-euro pension rise or the income tax exemption, the order of magnitude is the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U102	Now, there is no possibility of asking a third question, Mr Ernits has exhausted his two questions. The fruit of Thomas is next.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U103	Thank you. I think we all know this skyis2 saga in this hall, it's really going on for ten years or more. But I also remember that SKAIS1 was given more money to satisfy all the needs until the SKIAIS2 was finished. So did you get a little money, or was it a question that we couldn't solve this bill with the SAIS1 now? Okay, that's that. But my more serious question is that it sounds a little strange that in spring we sent a letter to the government on behalf of the Commission and now we expect the government to make a one-way draft in essence. Why does the Commission not propose this draft itself, why is it writing these letters? The Commission has the opportunity to write down this bill, come to this big hall and resolve this issue. Makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U104	Thank you. I know you've put forward a few drafts that some interest groups have had made by some law firm. There is no point in us ordering this bill from a law firm because we have officials who are very familiar with this area. There is already a bill on this subject, very good, you have submitted it. The idea of a similar draft has been sent to the Ministry, and we can discuss this place with this draft. I don't think anyone in this hall is arguing that it's just a name. With the word 'pension' in it, he's gone to tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U105	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U106	Of course we can!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U107	Thank you. I wanted to make some adjustments to the good chairman of the committee. We can write the drafts ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U108	We can use the departments of the Riigikogu. Personally, I've done it, I haven't taken any lawyers anywhere, and I've got a very good bill. We also have the Development Monitoring Centre now. It was just a note.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U109	Very good! If there was a question earlier as to why the Commission has not submitted a draft, then I will say that there are four members of your political party in the Commission, too, and that has now been submitted by you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U110	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U111	Good waitress! You were a member of the coalition when the entire pensioner tax increase was arranged. You probably remember pretty well that the previous composition was the same as the Reform Party's draft procedure. On that occasion, the Committee on Monetary Affairs simply dealt with it to death, i.e. refused to place it on the agenda and bring it to the Chamber after the first reading. That is why I am asking: you, as chairman of the committee, how do you see the timetable for the procedure for this draft, when, as you propose, this bill will arrive at the second reading of the hall? Can we be sure that we will be able to adopt this bill as a law before the State Budget Act can make any changes to the state budget for next year and that this higher taxation of pensioners will no longer apply next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U112	When you start from behind, you talk about when this bill becomes a law, when it will be implemented, it is a decision of the Riigikogu. Right now, what's written in this bill doesn't make sense. That is what we discussed in the Commission, that is what is going on. When some draft comes to second reading, this cannot be said today, because no draft is in the Riigikogu or in the Commission such a thing that simply runs through it. Who is in the Committee on Monetary Affairs knows that we will process all the drafts in such a way that they will ultimately be very good. Some of the issues we are dealing with in a longer way, some things are standing on the shelf because no good solution has been found. But if everything goes well and all the problems are solved, he'll be here this year, if they don't, he'll be here later. Today, it would be very wrong to say on what date it will come to second reading, because it is the decision of the Commission, not the decision of the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U113	Okay. Thanks to the co-rapporteur. No further questions. Now is the opportunity to make speeches, so I will open negotiations. The representatives of the political groups can give a speech. Jürgen Ligi is the first to register on behalf of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As is always the case with the grand election promises of Isamaa, the Riigikogu must make dung bread. This bill is one of the consequences of the previous election promises of Isamaa and one of the situations in which we would be able to finish the bread in one corner, a small bread. We would solve one problem in this income tax system, it is that pensions are taxed higher. I do not know any politicians or parties in this Chamber who would have dared to dispute, essentially, that the average pension could be tax-free. I'll remind you of those piles of dung. Free higher education, land tax exemption or the third pillar of these are all things from which the bread was much more difficult to make. It's possible for at least one piece of a pile here. I therefore call for this draft to be taken seriously and for the law to be adopted at third reading. You don't just have to play fish here, look blank and wait till this thing ends. In the previous Riigikogu, our proposal was more radical, it was that pensions should be included in the taxable income at all, but of course we saw the response that we did not support the matter in the form we presented. We will then do it now in a form that other parties could also be in favour of. First of all, taxation of the third pillar. Here, the state has acted falsely, has changed the tax system that has been allowed. The tax advantage that arises when money is placed in the third pillar disappears because the Fatherland has found such a fine income tax exemption, which is progressive. The promise of the third pillar must be fulfilled, and this bill will also comply with it. The second pillar is the same. If, after all, a large number of people joined it voluntarily, we also knew how to tax payments. Now that principle is ruined. What's more about this income tax and what's even uglier is, of course, the first pillar. Working pensioners get a hell of a bang. It is, in fact, a mockery when it turns out that they are going to pay a lot more income tax than they were before, if they go to work or if they are going to receive a pension while they are at work. All of this was to be expected. Someone said there was some sort of work accident. That guy's name was Peter. It wasn't an accident at work, it was all in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. We have also been talking about this for a very long time during the procedure on this draft. But this debate, I am talking here about income tax, did not allow us to hold much in the course of the proceedings. In essence, a survivor's pension is suitable for a pension, but here it arises that, since the pension is no longer exempted from separate income tax, as was the case with the previous income tax system, it falls under income tax. In this sense, it is a projected error, and the Chancellor of Justice has also pointed it out. This is different from the tax on maintenance, and the authors of the income tax system had to know that this would happen. Let us remind you once again: it was all known in advance, it is all written in the explanatory memorandum to your draft tax exemption and there are no surprises. More time, please, maybe it'll take!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U115	How much?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U116	Give me three minutes, then we'll see.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U117	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U118	In an ideal world, the tax-free minimum could be so high that this problem does not arise at all, but the budget that was probably stolen is not capable of doing so. That is why we have made a draft that will solve only this most painful problem. For historical reasons, our pensions can never be as large as they have been in the old big economies, in rich countries, for the same reasons. That is why we have to deal with the pension system separately. As you can see, this government has decided that pensions must not be large, and they are also looting the second pillar. This bill will also contribute here; however, it will help to increase the credibility of the pension system. So I ask the parties to act in accordance with their programmes and promises, to forget this stupid promise and the thing you made with the 2016 decision. Let us free pensions, without discrimination, from income tax on the average old-age pension and let us vote in favour of this draft three times in a row. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U119	Thank you. There's no more calls. Nor is there a proposal to reject the draft at first reading, so the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, which was initiated by the Reform Party, has been completed. The deadline for submitting amendments to the draft is 10 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U120	Let's go to the next item. The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending § 7 of the Social Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I would like to ask Riina Sikkut, a member of the Riigikogu, to sit as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U121	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's really nice that we're having this retirement-related morning or session here. Indeed, the Socialist Group has tabled a draft law amending the Social Tax Act. We just want to change § 7. Why? Now, if you look at the debates in the media too, you might get the impression that the weaknesses of our pension system are like a lack of freedom of choice and a lack of return, but in fact, this is far from the case. Let us look at what the purpose of the pension is: to ensure that people are able to cope at an age when they cannot or do not want to work anymore because of their health. So it's central to ensuring that we survive. We will not be able to do this again from the current tax revenue in a situation where the number of employees is falling. But just as there are expectations in health care, in the same way as in the case of pensions, the expectations that the quality of life can be maintained after the completion of work can now, if there is time, be able to deal with hobbies that have been done before, for example, more theatre than before. We cannot, from the current tax revenue, provide people with a pension replacement rate that would lead to a quality of life that meets their expectations. According to surveys, people also want to receive 60 to 70% of their current income at retirement age. Our first pillar replacement rate remains around 40% for current pensioners. From a situation where two workers pay a pension to one person, we are moving towards one-person pensions for 1.2 or 1.3 people due to demographic developments. Running tax revenues, as I said, can't do that. What's the solution? What is the real concern of our pension system? That we're saving too little. If you look at other countries where the pension replacement rate is higher, there is one answer: employers also contribute. This is also a long-spoken opportunity in Estonia to increase the employer's role in collecting pensions for people. You know, this is already possible in Estonia. From 1 January 2012, the employer will be able to contribute to the third pillar of the person. And what's more, employers even do it! But these are mostly branches or subsidiaries of foreign companies that operate in Estonia, part of the human resources policy and remuneration policy of the parent company is that, yes, they are thinking not only about the employee's income or next month's income, but they will also ensure his or her livelihood at retirement age. In 2018, we had 111 employers who contributed 2.5 million euros for 2127 employees. So there are 111 employers who are already betting. Then who are they? In most cases, financial sector companies contribute to a relatively high wage, and these people themselves understand that voluntary collection into the third pillar of pensions is important. At the same time, if we look at whose retirement age is the most problematic, these are not people earning a higher average salary, whose wealth is better anyway, because savings are higher anyway. It is important that, even in the case of medium and lower wage earners, this saving or collection would be higher during working life. Why aren't the rest of the employers betting? One of the reasons, which has also been pointed out by the Confederation of Employers, is that, at present, wagering is expensive. If the employer decides to voluntarily contribute a percentage or two of the person's salary to the third pillar, for example, he or she will pay 33% of the social tax on it. There is an exception to the Income Tax Act, there is no income tax due, but social tax is paid in full. Perhaps he or she contributes to the three pension pillars of a person at the same time: he or she contributes to the first pension pillar; once he or she joins the second pension pillar, he or she contributes to the second pension pillar; and then he or she makes a voluntary contribution to the third pension pillar. Employers have said that this is a situation where pension payments are still subject to pension tax. The idea of the draft that we have tabled is that if the employer wants to contribute further to the third pillar for the employee, yes, 13% of the health insurance will have to be paid if the person has health insurance, the amount is calculated in proportion to his income, it has to be paid further, but the 20% that goes to the first and second pension pillars should not be paid if the contribution to the third pillar is already made. The idea is that the big plan is still to move towards lower-income workers, whose savings are lower and whose voluntary ability to save during working life is lower, but whose old age risk is causing greater problems in coping, would be able to make use of this contribution from employers. Let's look at the financial impact. At present, 2.5 million euros per year are contributed, with half a million euros coming from pension insurance. If we make this legislative amendment, the negative impact on the state budget will be half a million euros. That's a small amount. But let's say the number of bets increases two or three times. If, for example, instead of EUR 2.5 million, employers collectively contribute EUR 6.5 million to the third pillar, the state budget is already in surplus, because the 13% that goes into health insurance is already more than the half a million lost in the first pillar. So the budgetary impact is marginal, the potential to increase budget revenue is completely there. I therefore hope that you will support progress with this legislative amendment. Let's look at those employers who are already betting on what these pluses are, why they're doing it, and what are these schemes really? For contributions to the third pillar, plus flexibility. Employers have said that every employer can develop a scheme that suits themselves. There are companies that say yes, the employer will contribute if the employee also contributes, i.e. if the employee pays a percentage of his income to the third pension pillar, the employer will also put a percentage of his own. There are employers who contribute 3% to the third pillar, the employee's contribution is voluntary, the employee can decide for himself whether or not he wants to collect further. There are employers who contribute a percentage of the salary or up to 5% of the salary, and the employee can choose for himself what amount it is, how much the employer will contribute. There are employers who contribute a third of the employee's contribution, who expect the employee's own collection interest to be higher, and they contribute a third of the employee's contribution. Companies that contribute are SEB, Luminor, Eesti Pank, but also the office of prisons, for example, which does not operate in the financial sector and where people working are not highly paid. This could be our way, so that people who currently have lower incomes, this bonus, part of it, will have an indirect benefit in earning the current low wage, too, that coping is guaranteed at a higher rate at retirement age. Okay. What has been the criticism so far? We have been discussing occupational pension for over ten years. The first step is to ask, but then the pay will be paid into the third pillar. First of all, there are limits already in the law, with tax-free contributions of up to 15% of the annual payments taxed on income tax during the year or up to EUR 6000 per year. You can't pay any high-paid employees through the third pillar. The second question is that the third pillar is more flexible, it is not as regulated as the second pillar, it is possible to withdraw money during working life. Indeed, in the past this was purely the case, since 2017 there has been a legislative amendment allowing such insurance contracts to be concluded in the event of an employer's contribution that voluntary withdrawal of money during working life is not possible. It is intended for long-term collection and payments can only be made when the retirement age is reached. So I hope that we can stand together to ensure that everyone, including those on lower incomes, can raise more money for their pension, collect with the help of our employer, and all of us are expected to retire with a monthly income that meets our expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U122	Thank you. There are questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U123	Thank you. Congratulations on the extreme right. But illustrate why you presented this. Both the government and the majority of the opposition agree here that money will be taken from the state budget (generally, it is an attempt to give this money to the weaker) and, on the other hand, from the first pillar of the pension, the social tax will be reduced. Those who pay for the third pillar are, of course, at the top of the income pool, whether as an employer or as a private individual. What do your calculations show about the social impact of this tax credit? By the way, this effect is analogous to the social impact of most tax incentives.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U124	Thank you, Jürgen, for such a left-hand question. Indeed, there are very few contributors at the moment, they are focused on certain sectors, as I said, it is the financial sector in particular, and it is workers whose income is high. The point of our bill is that it shouldn't be like this, that everyone should be part of an occupational pension. At present, those who are able to spend more on their employees, to whom this increase in labour costs is the third pillar's contribution plus 33% of the social tax, do not go too far, but employers who have a tighter limit on labour costs, who cannot make these expenses to this extent, do not make these contributions. So we stand clearly for the low-paid, so that they too can be part of the occupational pension. We have nothing more to do to improve the livelihood of the elderly in the future than to gather more now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U125	Thank you. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U126	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! A rather remarkable draft from the socialist community, but as Mr Ligi has already mentioned, most of the responsibility you want to put on the companies. Businesses already have a very high social tax, hampering the development of entrepreneurship. But the point is that, since the third pillar is not doing very well and the reform of the second pillar is also planned, would it not be appropriate to start looking at these things more widely, in the key to funded pensions at all, so that the person himself, the entrepreneur, and perhaps the state, and perhaps somehow combine pension and health insurance systems.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U127	Thank you. I fully agree that the social tax burden on businesses is high and that is why it is not necessary to extraly tax this good contribution of businesses to people's future livelihoods. That is why our proposal is that 20% of the social tax that goes into pension insurance should no longer be paid for this type of third pillar contribution. Of course, the pension system must be looked at in its entirety. Amendments to the draft can be proposed. In this context, for example, there is also the question that perhaps employers could contribute to the second pillar. I totally agree, I think that if there is now an opportunity to contribute to the third pillar, then perhaps the option could also contribute to the second pillar. Second pillar investments are much more regulated, they are much more protected, they are also protected under the Guarantee Fund Act. So if someone does something criminal, breaks the law, and people's pension savings disappear, they're guaranteed by the state. I think we need to look at the pension system as a whole and also consider that the employer can contribute to the second pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U128	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U129	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Riina Sikkut, comment on my thinking. We are currently in a situation in Estonia where unemployment is very low. We are in a situation where we actually have a shortage of labour. Is this measure, and if so, how much will it help employers to really try to be more attractive to the contractor, to create a more favourable environment, both in terms of working environment and in terms of securing the future? What are the effects?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U130	Thank you. That's a good question. I also think that the times when a person only looked at the salary number are over. If you choose between employers, this is not the most important criterion. Family friendliness is important, how to support reconciliation between work and family life. It is important that all people, including those with reduced working capacity for example, are equally accepted and supported in the collective. What matters is whether the employer is responsible for the environment. In the same way, it is important that the employer thinks about the health of his employees. After all, it is possible to make health expenses free of special preferential taxes during the year. What is important is that the employer thinks about coping with a person's old age, which may also help to contribute to his or her future pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U131	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Drafts drawn up in Parliament do not need to have a plan of development, nor do they need to have a coordination circle. Have you, however, had any negotiations or meetings with real employers to find out what they think of this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U133	Thank you. Indeed, since occupational pension has been repeatedly discussed over the year, employers have also expressed the view that it would actually be necessary, but it must be reasonable in terms of taxes. They have pointed out that when you have to contribute to the three pension pillars at the same time, by making this contribution to the third pillar, it seems unreasonable or excessive. However, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance have also issued their opinions on this draft. The Ministry of Social Affairs supports, it considers it necessary to motivate employers to make a larger amount of payments to the employee's voluntary pension insurance, but points out that the rules for making payments could be negotiated with a view to precisely what age and how this money can be taken out of the third pillar. I totally agree with that. The Ministry of Finance points out the budgetary implications and points out that since the second pillar is being restructured, the system as a whole should be reviewed and no decision can be taken separately on the third pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U134	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U135	Thank you again, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have now brought forward the positions of the two ministries. Okay. My question concerned employers operating in real life, not even their umbrella organisations. In so far as employers' views are still in line with this draft when we talk about 50-200 jobs for people, so-called these average companies? Do you have any such information?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U136	Thank you. Indeed, our entrepreneurs are very different. There are those who have said no, they have not considered contributing to the third pillar because they offer this second or third type of support to their employees, for example, they consider it more important to contribute to the cost of health. There are entrepreneurs who say yes, if it were reasonable in terms of taxes, they would consider it. There are those who say that really, this betting is expensive now, but they consider it important, so they show workers that they value them or that they stand for the long-term well-being of workers. It cannot be said that companies would all agree. There are those who can contribute under the current scheme, those who would like to do so, and those who would not consider it in the future if this bet was voluntary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U137	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U138	Thank you. Any transfer of the social system into the hands of companies, but here, this activity, at the expense of the first pillar and income tax, increases inequality. There's no point in discovering the world here. But do you know any entrepreneur who would say no if he was told that he had the opportunity to pay less tax? Should I even ask entrepreneurs the way you asked them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U139	I think that there is no difference between companies and individuals in the sense that many people would also prefer to pay less tax. This is perfectly rational, it makes sense, but the contribution of the third pillar does not mean a reduction in costs for the company. This contribution, however, is to be made. It is clear that their labour costs will increase by contributing to the third pillar. Don't shake your head! You're referring to the fact that they're going to somehow move the salary to the third pillar, but if the monthly livelihood of people depends on the salary, it's not acceptable for the employee. Clearly, there is a ceiling ahead that does not already allow a large wage to be paid out through the third pillar. Thirdly, this agreement, this contract, will be concluded between the employee and the employer anyway. If there's a limit that can be taken out just after retirement, I can't tell you how many employees are willing to receive their current income in 40 years' time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U140	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. So once again, the co-rapporteur, Aivar Kokk, chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, is in the hands of the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U141	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft amendment to § 7 of the Social Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party at its meeting on 17 September. The bill gives the employer the opportunity to grant the employee a tax credit using contributions to the third pillar of the person's pension. The draft amends and complements § 7 (3) of the Social Tax Act by providing that the social tax rate would be 13% also for the payments made by the employer to the employee's pension fund. Such a low rate would apply to contributions which do not exceed the income tax exemption threshold laid down in the Income Tax Act. I would remind you that this is up to 15% of the person's income, but not more than EUR 6000. Mr Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department, attended the meeting of the Commission. In the banking sector, SEB and Luminor make payments as employers to the third pillar of employees' pensions. At the same time, it must be said that this is done by Eesti Pank, which has supported the contribution to the third pension pillar since 1998, i.e. as long as the third pillar has existed. In Eesti Pank, 50% of employees collect money in the third pillar. In addition to banks, some small and large enterprises, public institutions and hospitals have joined the occupational pension scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U142	Thank you. Any questions for the co-rapporteur? At least there are no questions on the screen, so the questioning round is over. It is now possible to negotiate; the representatives of the political groups can give a speech. Helmen Kütt is registered on behalf of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U143	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I say that this is a very good and necessary law to amend the Social Tax Act. The Social Democrats consider that instead of demolishing the existing three-pillar pension system, ways should be sought to make it better and more effective. The aim of the draft is to encourage voluntary pension insurance, increase income opportunities at retirement age and make occupational pension available to the majority of employees. The broader objective is to encourage employers' contributions to the pension system and thus to direct employees themselves towards further retirement. Both the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the European Commission have predicted that pension increases will slow down in the future and fall behind wage increases. We also know that demographic processes are making the ratio between working age and retirement age worse: today there are two workers, but in 2050 there are only 1.3 employees per pensioner. As a result, the state will not be able to provide an average replacement rate of 40% with the first pillar pension. In order for pensions to be higher in the future, even more savings should be made today. However, the current rules do not motivate employers to contribute to the third pillar in any way, as this is very costly. Only a few Estonian employers have used this opportunity so far. Today's first-reading draft would amend and supplement § 7 (3) of the Social Tax Act with the provision that the social tax rate would be 13% for the taxes paid by the employer to the pension fund. This lower rate would apply to contributions which do not exceed the income tax exemption threshold laid down in the Income Tax Act. The Social Democrats hope that the draft debate in the Riigikogu is substantive and results-oriented. Prerequisites are very good. Today's government promised in the coalition agreement to consider promoting the possibility of retirement by employers to employees. At the meeting of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu, the Estonian Employers' Confederation, whose mission is to contribute to the growth of the Estonian economy and the rise in the living standards of people, highlighted the principle that taxation of the collection of pensions by employers for employees should be made more favourable. In the Commission, we had Kai Realo and Arto Aas speaking. Finally. On 21 November 2016, the Prime Minister's candidate and today's Prime Minister Jüri Ratas said: 'I know very well what it is like to be told that every idea you have is wrong. I really want to change Estonia's political culture and to lose the understanding that the wrong man cannot do the right thing. If the opposition initiates a constructive and constructive change of law, we will discuss it rather than staggeringly reject it. I'm not saying it in my mouth, I'm saying it in my heart. " The Social Democrats also sincerely hope that the Prime Minister's words will become action. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U144	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please, call from the remote!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, There was a little discussion about the idea of the right side and the left side. For me, right-wing is rational, he takes care of the economy, but social policy chooses sociological truths. On the contrary, the left: they don't care about the economy at all, and when it comes to social policy, sociological analyses forget. Love for tax exemptions is a better radical idea, because all the analyses show that Praxis, which is the most convenient, is that tax exemptions fall in the upper decills, including the third pillar tax exemption, I consider it necessary for both private individuals and employers. This is the case with all forms of social policy being transferred from the state to businesses. The state can be effective in social policy. When he gives the same tax money to employers, they naturally praise it, they naturally ask again, as in this case, but they do not care at all what other employers can do. This is the case with the sports bonus that Riina put forward in the Commission as an analogy, but also with the payments of the third pillar. Such bonuses will be added to the payroll when the salary is already competitive and then a low-tax bonus will be added. But it is not in the interests of society to transfer income tax and social tax poorly, purposelessly into the hands of businesses. It is in the interests of society that there is a neutral, effective tax system and, on the other hand, a social system that inevitably creates advantages for the weaker because they need them more. Third pillar contributions by employers would be very welcome, but of course they prefer to pay wages. Here, they do not currently have any more direct tax incentive than unemployment insurance. But if I had to paraphrase a little bit about defending this bill, I would say that right now the employer does not have any incentive to pay the salary, because it is so highly taxed, if you lost your income tax and if you lost your pension tax, we would pay more. That's exactly what you're offering right now. Don't bid! Eiki Nestor understood what I was saying, here we were making fun of each other. In his smile, when I told him the same thing, he understood, but now it seems that Eiki Nestor's knowledge has gone and the same naive talk about tax exemptions is spoken with a serious face, without smiling. Well, Riina's smiling. Thank you. At least you understand what I'm saying. Indeed, social policy must be targeted and not done through tax exemptions. It must be based on collected taxes, not on uncollected taxes, and must be directed precisely from there, not on those who already have, whose problems are small, but on those who do not. This poor Maxima salesman can at some point, if someone should make a third pillar, of course, only so they tell him that, you know, we can't raise your salary, but we can pay a little bit more in that third pillar, we'll make you that third pillar, because that's where we don't have to put that fifth extra. This is the only thing that can be obtained, and ultimately, the state simply receives less tax from payroll funds, and employers may be able to raise wage costs, but they can rather not do so, because they have to raise wages from time to time, but then they can raise a little less or they can pay a fifth less on this wage increase. So thanks for trying, but these things have been tried before. Sociological truths, soccer truths, are still important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-26_U146	Thank you. There is no further talk request. The negotiations are over. First reading of Bill 42 is complete. The deadline for submitting amendments to bill 42 is set at 5.15 p.m. on 10 October. Our industrious trial is over and our hard week is over. Closure of the sitting at 11.57 a.m.
