ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U1	Good morning, honourable members of the Riigikogu. We'll start the Thursday session. The session of the 11th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Does anyone want to hand over inquiries or drafts? Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Last Wednesday, the Riigikogu voted out of the procedure at first reading of the draft law on funded pension for the Reform Party and the Socialist Group. This is the only way to deal with the government's draft, which brings more problems to the pension system, not to solve them. Just a reminder. The destruction of the second pillar results in lower pensions in the future, smaller investments in Estonian companies and lower economic growth. Moreover, on the basis of a number of authoritative legal opinions, there are major constitutional contradictions in the Government's draft. For example, there is the possibility of removing 4% of the social tax paid by the employer from the second pillar in addition to its 2% contribution, which can be considered as a special provision for retirement age. If a person does not use it on purpose, it would be more appropriate to pay 45% of the said money, or 2/3 of the funds collected in the second pillar, back to the state budget. A discretionary threshold should also be used, which states whether all or only part of the sum can be withdrawn at the same time, because unit-holders should not be placed in an unequal position or in a situation where the costs of exiting the second pension pillar are notionally borne by those who remain in the second pension pillar. That is why we are putting forward a draft for the Reform Party and the Social Democrats, which will solve the real bottlenecks in the pension system. We have completed the draft and are convinced that we can make it even better during the debate in the Riigikogu in order to ensure that the Estonian pension system becomes better, not worse. We will give the coalition another opportunity to hold a substantive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U3	Thank you. The draft law has been adopted and will be processed in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. No one else wishes to submit any drafts or requests for information. So let's do a presence check. Please! There are 90 members of the Riigikogu, no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U4	Let's start a review of the agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Maritime Labour Act and the Maritime Safety Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The political groups have the opportunity to speak in the negotiations. There does not seem to be a desire to participate in the negotiations, so we need to take a position on the proposal of the lead committee. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 56 on the draft. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and the Law on Maritime Safety, initiated by the Government of the Republic 56. Please take a stand and vote. 93 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there was no one against and there were no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U5	Let's start working on the second item on the agenda. A key national question initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party 'Is the rule of law in danger? ' debate. A few words to explain. According to § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Management Board of the Riigikogu, on a proposal from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, determined the important national question 'Is the rule of law at risk? ' discuss next time. First, the presentation by Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Estonian Reform Party Group, is up to 20 minutes and the questions and answers are up to 20 minutes. Secondly, Jaanus Tehver, Chairman of the Estonian Bar Association, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes, as well as questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Then the presentation of Steven-Hristo Evets, former member of the board of the Public Prosecutor and the Society's Corruption Free Estonia, will be up to 20 minutes and the questions and answers will be up to 20 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask a total of up to two questions to the rapporteurs. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. As usual, the Riigikogu, at the request of the political group, the Estonian Reform Party, has been proposed to the Riigikogu that the representatives of the political groups speak first. The Riigikogu will not take a decision to close the discussion. The Group of the Estonian Reform Party proposes to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 2 p.m., but I think the President will put it to the vote when that time comes. Or do they want to vote now? No, they don't. Let us put this proposal to the vote when it comes to one. So let's start with this item. The crucial national question 'Is the rule of law in danger? ' debate. I would like to ask Kaja Kallas, President of the Reform Party Group, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U6	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today we are discussing whether the rule of law is at risk as a matter of national importance. But before you specifically turn to Estonia, let me open up the meaning of the rule of law a little more widely. The opposite of the rule of law is a power. Coudenhove-Kalergi has written in his book Total State - Total Person - that the rule of law has the right to the rule of law as a power for a state of power is superior to power as a right. The rule of law uses power to ensure that the right to affordability is exercised by the State of authority in order to hold and insure its power. For the rule of law, every person is a legal entity; for the rule of law, every person is an object of power. The rule of law and the rule of law are both rule of law. The rule of law is based on justice that protects the individual from the state, while the state of power stands up in a discipline that protects the state from the individual. Each country relies on both power and law. There is no peace, no freedom, no state without right, but there is no peace, no freedom, no state without power. These values are only balanced if the right is based on power and the power is based on law. We can say without hesitation that Estonia has been a rule of law since regaining independence. This means that we live in a country where the Constitution is supreme and which is based on laws. In such a country, citizens are governed not by the will and will of those who hold the power, but by the rules on which all citizens, regardless of their position, are subject equally. Be you a minister or a seller, builder or official, the rules apply equally to everyone. In the rule of law, the authorities are separated. This also means, among other things, that the executive power, or government, must submit to the Riigikogu, or legislative power, chosen by the people. Every member of the government, even if he has been previously elected to Parliament with the votes of the voters, has been approved by Parliament. Hence the elementary requirement: members of the government must report to the Riigikogu and be guided in their activities by the rules that the legislator has established. The separation of powers ensures that, whether executive power is in the hands of anyone, no member of the government can prescribe to the courts how the court should apply the rules laid down by the legislator or who should be subject to the law. The separation of powers makes it impossible to initiate political processes or otherwise abuse executive power. It has taken nearly 30 years to build such a country. Thanks to respect for the rule of law, we were taken into the European Union, which shares the same values. Thanks to the rule of law, our economy has also progressed and foreign investors have come to Estonia. Following the rules has given everyone confidence that our judicial system can be trusted and that the behaviour of the state is predictable. The state has respect for its citizens and businesses. And the rule of law is precisely why we have done much better than many other former republics of the Soviet Union. The inevitable co-product of a power state is corruption. Uncontrolled power distributes national income in the interests of power, not of the people. The decision-making positions in society and the entrepreneurship controlled by the rule of law will be placed on politically loyal but incompetent leaders who will directly harm the well-being of the people. In a state of power, officials will work for the benefit of a politician's friend entrepreneur, not of the citizens. In a state of power, political decisions are more important than laws. What's so bad about these political decisions may be asked. The bad news is that political decisions are often fickle and short-sighted, but the laws are permanent, guaranteeing the necessary stability for society. The laws and their observance give the people confidence, while the political power in the rule of power, on the other hand, creates uncertainty and randomness. It is believed that authoritarian regimes, i.e. a power state, have more dynamics, flexibility, flexibility and determination in solving practical issues. History shows, however, that it is these regimes that have made fatal mistakes that would have been avoidable in the rule of law, in which power is monitored. We all know that contradictions have heightened throughout the world. Conflicts between the more educated and the less educated, the wealthier and the poorer, their own and strangers, the city and the land. Unsatisfied people often believe that the power state has simple solutions to their problems, but this is a deep illusion. Power is cheating. He acts only in his own interests, but in the interests of his own power. The social basis for power is created by the distribution of short-term benefits. If there is nothing left to divide, we must find the enemy against whom the disapproval of the deluded must be directed. History is so born full of aggression. Has mankind learned anything from history? Have we learned anything from our history? After all, there is no need to look far for an example of the rule of law becoming a power. Let us just remember how the Republic of Estonia went from the rule of law to the state of power in 1934 and how almost the whole society was switched back. The decision not to defend its independence was a power, not a rule of law. Being proud of Estonia as a rule of law today, however, we must not remain indifferent to attempts to break the rule of law and gradually replace it with a system of power. When the coalition that came to power in March was initially ashamed of the verbal brutality of one of the partners, and from time to time the Prime Minister even apologized for insulting the entire population groups and workers, then as time went on, the more self-evident are the attacks on the values that have made Estonia the rule of law. At first, when coalition politicians accused the opposition and the press of damaging Estonia's image abroad and preferred to act in stealth themselves, now, in the era of new revolutionaryism, one minister lies directly into the mouth of foreign journalists from some mysterious plan B, and the other goes abroad in a speech chair and declares with a loud voice that their aim is to divide Estonian society and to escalate tensions here. There's nothing to be ashamed of, nothing to hide. The Prime Minister, however, is silent, or even if he says something, it is already known in advance: 'My goal is a cohesive society. ' The reality is, however, that never before has the re-independence of Estonia been as broken as today. The saddest of all, the souls of people are broken, the souls of people who do not come to the streets to rage as hungve benches, who threaten no one to hide the disappointment of the Estonian state and its loss of dignity in themselves. This is a silent majority who is concerned about the welfare of its country. And the basis of this concern is the fear that one day Estonia will no longer be the rule of law on which justice is based. Then the debates on taxes and pensions will become secondary. There will be no discussion in the state of power, a ruling in the state of power. In a state of power, all citizens are seen through, but power itself remains opaque. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! May you yourself be able to assess whether or not the examples that I will then give are a threat to the rule of law. The minister goes under the authority of another minister to dismiss the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, crossing the limits of his authority. The procedure provides that such a decision cannot be made by the minister alone, but by the government at once, all together. However, the Minister of Finance is attempting to dismiss the police chief because he has the power. Was it inexperience? I don't think so. In the light of the Minister's own subsequent explanations, this was a deliberate abuse of power. Go on. The Minister of Government refuses to reply to the questions of Members of Parliament or does not agree to come to Parliament to answer, saying that the Minister must answer only to his party and not to the Riigikogu. Ministers also refuse to come to Riigikogu committees to report on their activities. The Minister screams and screams at the members of the Riigikogu right here in the Chamber. This is not followed by any form of order from the mouth of the Speaker of Parliament or from the Prime Minister. Without any substantive justification, the Secretary-General of the Ministry, who has notified the law enforcement authorities of the illegal activities of the Minister, will be released. Although there is satisfaction with the work of the State Attorney General, without any substantive justification, he will not be confirmed for his new term of office on the pretext that this particular person is not suitable for the family of power. Without any analysis, and contrary to the recommendations of most experts, a law will be passed, the consequences of which will be far-reaching and negative for the people of Estonia. It is merely a reference to our political will. In their recitals, the coalition agreement is made supreme by law as an agreement between themselves on the allocation of power. Without any substantive justification, the rights of those involved in the peaceful demonstration will be restricted because the Minister does not like this demonstration. Ministers exercise telephone law by putting pressure on the authorities under their authority to make favourable decisions for selected undertakings. Ministers continue to question the reliability of the functioning of the state, raising doubts about the work of the authorities, as well as about the activities of the institutions overseeing the rule of law. Finally, ministers state to justify their steps that their understanding of the rule of law is different from what has been in force in Estonia so far. This means that they should continue to be expected to do nothing other than attempt to demolish the rule of law. Us or them. There will be no compromise, as one of the demolishing chief ideologies admitted in a public act of frankness. It's a long way from inexperience, it's in the interest. And I am not at all sure that these interests are benevolent towards Estonia. Ladies and gentlemen, All the above examples are only steps in one direction: beyond the rule of law, towards the rule of law. These are steps towards a country where those with power are also right. Yes, let us face it honestly: we are on our way to a power state. And when you say that the rule of law is important to you or, more importantly, if you have been involved in building this rule of law, I ask you: why are you not doing anything about it? Why does the Prime Minister, who in his words supports the values that the majority of the Estonian people have accepted, allow this poisonous and unimaginable power flow from the perspective of Estonia's future to carry him along? Since the rule of law is also the basis for our freedom, is the power really so sweet that you are willing to sacrifice freedom in order to hold on to it? The rule of law does not become a state of power overnight, it is gradual and takes small steps. The scandal after the scandal makes people more apathetic, authorities and officials more modest. Journalists get tired. All the more so as those in power have kept their power by whipping and carroting. And who will say no to the carrot, be it a few thousand roofies or even a promise to build a new house. Life wants to live. But if we keep comfortable, we can soon arrive where we can no longer be sure that the activities of a corrupt politician will be studied, that the Estonian authorities will dare to carry out independent supervision, that citizens will dare to express their opinion without fear of a devastating attack following the publication of their opinion, that the weakest will not be attacked by those in power. The rule of law is and must remain the basis for Estonia's life and Estonia's success. If the rule of law is in jeopardy, and I believe that most of us understand these levels, then, honourable people, it is in the hands of all of us, especially the members of the coalition. How can we proceed so that in years' time, we should not be ashamed of our children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U7	Thank you. There are a lot of questions for the waitress that have to fit in, as I said before, in 20 minutes. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U8	Thank you. Good waitress! At the beginning of your presentation, you quoted Richard Nikolaus von Coudenhove-Kalerg and his vision of what the ideal rule of law should be. Do I understand you correctly that you share Kalerg's views and perceptions of what should be like throughout European society? In this case, how do you feel about Kalergi's clearly in favour of losing nation states and seeing Europe as a future person as a rootless mule?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U9	Very interesting interpretation of this book. I am talking about the rule of law, and I do not want to deviate from this issue. Indeed, this book is issued at such a time as in Europe... He will also comment on what is happening in Europe there. But I have used the rule of law, which I think is very true today. You can't always agree with everything, but these are the things I brought up.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U10	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U11	Good President! Dear waitress, You keep stressing the separation of authorities every time you come in here. At the Tartu County Court building at Kalevi Street 1a, both prosecutors and judges work together side by side. I know very precisely that this is not a rumor, how the same judges and prosecutors discuss their joint case when they are at the coffee table or in the corner of smoke, discussing possible charges against the perpetrator, i.e. the accused, what kind of agreements are made, etc. My question: is this, from your point of view, the separation of powers that you are always talking about here, what is in our country? How would you comment on that if you disagree?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U12	Thank you for your question. The separation of powers means that executive power, judicial power and legislative power are separated. As far as Estonian society is concerned, it is small. Lawyers communicate with judges, as well as with prosecutors, even though they are in disputes between different parties. I think that we cannot avoid communication between people anywhere, especially in a small society the size of Estonia. But that doesn't mean that the authorities aren't separated. How does this example of yours indicate that there is a connection between executive power and judicial authority? I didn't understand the connection.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U13	Merry Aart, next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U14	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You used a lot of very good and correct words here, and you finally asked if we had learned from history. I'd ask you if you've learned from history, if we're thinking about your mother-in-law's money, carrollers, ports, ten million already turned into folklore, and so on. At the time, people's souls were even more broken than I now dare to confirm as a person from South-East Estonia, but society was perhaps a little more closed, a little more timid and not so open, not spoken with such a loud voice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U15	Thank you. I understand your desire to turn this debate on past sins, but that is not the point. We are talking about the rule of law, we are talking about what is happening now, not what has ever happened. Yes, in short, I do not think there is any point in turning this debate into one.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U16	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U17	Unfortunately, it is, a good waitress, that history reminds itself at every moment. Doesn't it seem to you, for example, that everything you said about us here is your reflection of what you yourself have done in the past? Over the years, you mocked the Centre Party, but what you have taken against the EKRE is simply unprecedented and transcends all kinds of boundaries. Therefore, I believe that the current power union is the only way to preserve and save the rule of law. What's your comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U18	Thank you. First of all, I never mentioned EKRE. It's interesting that you immediately recognized yourself in these examples. But second of all, I really don't understand it if you point it at this particular party. This is not about a particular party, it is about the actions that are being carried out. I'm sure we're not attacking the EKRE in any way. If you think about the election campaign, we ignored you absolutely. And if you look at this fight, maybe it's worth reminding you that even though you're trying to make an enemy of the Reform Party, who is guilty of everything, eight months ago, during the election campaign, your main opponents, who you blamed for all the vices. Your main opponent used to be the Centre Party and Jüri Ratas, whom you accused of all vices. So the Reform Party wasn't the enemy's statue back then. But I understand that you are now in power and that form of enemy needs to be found because, as I said, the money is gone and the money can't buy that loyalty anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U19	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U20	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good Echo! Yesterday we saw Jüri Ratas mocking and fooling Members in two hours. Didn't answer the questions, got personal again, or answered just that you were guilty. To be honest, it was very frustrating and gave me a sleepless night. Hence my question: should we not, in Parliament, create some sort of psychological crisis assistance service while this government coalition is in power?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U21	Thank you. Well, this question goes a little far from the rule of law. I think that, in the context of the rule of law, it is certainly the Minister's attitude towards the Members who have actually appointed ministers, as I said, they must report to the Members on their activities without attacking the Members of Parliament, in my opinion, this is a step in the wrong direction. This should not be the way to behave, and this should not be the way to set an example for our ministers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U22	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, I would like to thank you for a very clear and adequate message. In fact, for me and many of my acquaintances, it came as an extremely surprising surprise how easy a turn from the rule of law to the rule of law is. We have been accustomed to a very stable democratic country, which is an example in Europe for only a few years, and we are compared to Hungary and Poland, with whom we really do not want to be like in terms of democracy and the rule of law. We are now being compared with these countries. I also share your idea that if, indeed, on Monday, the Minister of the Interior says that he has a different understanding of the rule of law, and the Prime Minister, in Question Time, does not take the opportunity to disprove it, it is completely incomprehensible that, in the event of a conflict with the Chancellor of the Minister, the one who defends the rule of law will be released. In your opinion, is there any way to make this rule of law more legally stable, or is it still based on culture, tradition and history?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U24	Thank you. Democracy in this Chamber means that the adoption of all laws requires at least 51 votes or a majority in favour. Therefore, if most believe that the way of a power-state is the right way, I do not see that it is possible to adopt laws that directly regulate it even more. And we have a lot of laws. It's about culture, it's about principles. If the rule of law is that there may be a law, but you raise the political will above the law and say that it is empty of the law, we have agreed this way, it is our political will, then no law is wrong, because the political will is as if higher. So it is still a question of culture, understanding and values that are shared.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U25	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U26	Thank you, Kaja, for a good presentation. I have wondered why we are having this debate here now and now. In fact, I am very pleased that we are having this debate. I myself have had the honour of being in the building of this country since the early 1990s, and I have always contributed to the welfare and success of this country in the heart and soul. Certainly not all the decisions that have been made over time have been 100% correct, but I think it has always been borne by the idea that we are building together a strong, democratic and rule of law-based Estonian state. Why do you think we've reached the point as a society where we are now? And what can we, as politicians, do to actually unite society in order to actually strengthen democracy and avoid slipping towards a power state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U27	Thank you. That is a very good and, at the same time, very difficult question. But there can't be simple answers to the complicated questions that I'm saying: let's do this and then it's okay. I think it's a matter of time before we get here. Indeed, in nearly 30 years, when we have built an Estonian state, very many painful decisions have also been made. With these painful decisions, people may have been hurt and a certain glitch has arisen, a protest against the existing one. As I said, when there is dissatisfaction, it seems as if a simple solution is a power that easily solves these problems. But in fact, power still acts only in the interests of power. And, I do not know if the problems of entrepreneurs will then be solved in this order, not as the rules provide, but according to who knows who and whether someone has a ministerial friend or acquaintance who helps solve the problems. I don't think it should be that way. What can we do about it? I don't think we should be quiet. A silent majority is the one who should also make a sound and show them that this is not right for them. I think we should certainly not be comfortable and accept the fact that this country, which has been built for nearly 30 years, is being demolished. In my opinion, it is very dangerous to our freedom, too. Yeah. But there aren't really any simple solutions here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U28	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U29	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Echo! In fact, in your very substantive presentation, you have already referred to how dangerous it has been in our own history to the situations arising from the episode of power in international politics that could be fatal to us. It was only a few days ago here that we saw the rule of law in Finland resolving the situation when a minister is experiencing a serious crisis of confidence, in this case the Prime Minister of the country. It was solved without any major fight, in a way where the Prime Minister resigned. In fact, we in Estonia have had a lot of confusion for the last few months from the very same Prime Minister on quite important issues, in which there is also a connection to corruption that can be felt. But you don't want to take any responsibility for it. Perhaps you could expand a little, how dangerous it could be in the present world if Estonia really retreated to the rule of law once and for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U30	Thank you. Firstly, I would also like to comment on this Finnish matter for a moment and to link it to the previous question. This current gap, I think, is also very much due to the fact that the outcome of the elections was not actually taken into account in the formation of the government. When the current Prime Minister's party won the Finnish elections with 0.2%, no one challenged his right to form a government. However, we did not actually accept the result of the elections, which is why the gap arose, that a part of the electorate was so brutally excluded in the name of its power. Now, what can this lead to in Estonia? There are powers in the world. If we take it close to ourselves, then in the Soviet Union, we have been. And we know most of us, I think, remembers that time, how this country worked there, how decisions were made and how people were taken into account. Everything was done to maintain power. And we ourselves know from history, as I also pointed out from turning this 1934 rule of law into a power state, that society was, in fact, largely shut down, and therefore there was no parliamentary control over the decisions made by those in power. And, as I also said, we can discuss history issues in another format, but it is debatable whether a decision to surrender independence or a decision to surrender independence could have been made if there had been parliamentary control. So, to sum up, let's say, a very tragic scenario. We have seen the tragic scenario in our own country, but we can also look closer at Hungary and Poland in the European Union, which are actually moving towards a power-state or are already largely the powers that this will actually bring to these countries and what it will bring to the well-being of these countries, to the well-being of these people. So there are some dangerous examples we should learn from.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U31	Javier in clothing, next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U32	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Well, here are the questions from the EKRE representatives that they do not fully understand what we are talking about. And no wonder, because their chairman said in this very hall that they have a different understanding of the Estonian rule of law. It recalls, let's say, very detailedly, the then chairman of another party, Edgar Savisaar, about five years ago, who also, just as Helme is now, placed himself and his party outside the Estonian legal system. We all know how it ended. It is a pity that Estonia's policy has become an increasing number of attacks against officialhood and, more generally, Estonian statehood in 2019, and I am very sorry that this is also happening with the support of political parties who actually have a significant role to play in the construction of Estonia, including, of course, Isamaa. My question is: is this one party's sense of impunity and incompetence and the resulting defamation, or is it the responsibility of the entire government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U33	Thank you. There are coalition governments in Estonia. No one has a single power, nor has anyone so far sought a single power, which means that you can always rule with other parties. I think it has given quite a lot of confidence that no party can act alone or take decisions that are detrimental to society as a whole. So, yes, in answer to your question: those who have a very clear understanding, a different understanding of the rule of law, can only dismantle the rule of law because it is allowed by the parties with whom they are in the coalition and who share the principles of the rule of law that Estonia has so far regarded as important. Unfortunately, with their support, this dismantling of the rule of law is taking place. So I'm looking, yes, above all, at the members of the Fatherland, this responsibility rests with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U34	One more question. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U35	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! You listed these cases that have been widely spoken about in public: controversial attacks on officials, officials of different agencies, social groups. But actually, if we look at it on the basis of positions or action, there are a lot of attacks that the public doesn't know and what you hear when people tell you about them. There are different reasons why these people do not come to the public, including the fear that they will lose their jobs or that they will be openly harassed in a ugly way. What about the small Führers, who are now feeling completely unpunished, probably because the country's behaviour at a higher level has gotten out of hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U36	Thank you. It's a complicated question. They say the fish is starting to rot in the head. The way in which an example is set at a higher national level is inevitably carried down if the example is such that those who hold the power can do anything. We know this case of the dismissal of the headmaster of Lyganus parish. This same parish elder, without any legal justification, actually refers to exactly the same statements that the Prime Minister has used: the rules do not allow the dismissal on such grounds, but we restore the peace of work, etc. In my opinion, this can still be done, above all, in such a way that the role model from above is not one that attracts all the lower officials, decision-makers and society as a whole. However, I would encourage people not to be silent and to talk about these things. If there are more of these cases, and if it is brought to the public more, then perhaps society in general does not accept it and stands up for the weak.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U37	Thank you. The time for the first presentation and questions on it is over. Thanks to the waitress! Now we ask Jaanus Tehver, Chairman of the Estonian Bar Association, who will also be able to give a presentation for up to 20 minutes and then answer questions for up to 20 minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U38	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! It is a great honour for me to stand before you today and express my thoughts on a very important national issue. My name is Jaanus Tehver, I am the chairman of the Estonian Bar Association, I have been acting as a lawyer for a little over 20 years and in 2010-2014 I have also acted as head of the NGO Corruption-Free Estonia. As a result of its office, and simply as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, the rule of law has been very important to me, and so it is today. Last year we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, and next year the constitutional order of our country will be 100 years old.On 21 December 1920 the first Constitution of the Republic of Estonia entered into force. This year's 100th birthday was also celebrated by the Estonian Bar Association. Lawyers made a major contribution to the creation of the Estonian state and we have played an important role throughout the history of our country in defending the rule of law. I would like to stress here that this also applies to the Soviet occupation, when lawyers stood up for people's rights to the extent that the then regime allowed it. In some ways, it may seem strange that during this jubilee period and at the same time as the longest period of peace and constitutional order in the history of our country has taken place before our very eyes, both in politics and in general in social debates, the question of whether the rule of law is at risk or not is at risk is raised. A debate took place in this very Chamber a little over a year ago on the crucial state of freedom, justice and justice. The political situation of the party compared to the previous discussion on this subject in the same format is somewhat different at the moment, but it is not much more important in this change than it is for me as the guardian of the legal order. Now I will also mention a little bit of the question which, in principle, arose in the course of the previous debate, which is exactly why we have to deal with this issue right now. Why has it suddenly become so important? First of all, I want to give this issue a slightly broader context and to clarify that I do not believe that the problem of the rule of law and its raising are merely a means of fighting between political parties or on the axis of coalition-opposition. This issue has not only attracted increased attention in Estonia. In short, what we are doing here, and the situation we are considering is much wider. The initiatives on this subject in the European Commission and the European Parliament over the last few years, which are specifically aimed at strengthening the rule of law in the European Union, are probably well known to all of you. We may be a little less aware that debates on the rule of law have also been held in the parliaments of other Member States of the European Union in some similar form, as is happening here today, for example in France, Belgium and the Netherlands this year. The claims that the rule of law is in danger are not only about Estonia and not only about Hungary and Poland, but also come from other countries, including those from which we may not expect it. The last example that comes to my mind is the question raised in Finland last week of the foreign minister's activities in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where a high-ranking official reacted to what happened with the statement that he felt that what the Foreign Minister did in this situation created a climate of fear in the Ministry and thereby put the rule of law at risk. In short, what I want to say is that the reasons for discussing the rule of law are broader and that such problems may not be limited to those countries that have been under international critical scrutiny. We don't have to put ourselves out there in any way, it's a bit more global. I do not want to tend to this global debate here, nor do I want to engage in theoretical discussions about all of which are caused by these tendencies in the world. Similarly, I do not want to take a certain risk with it now, and I am taking a certain amount of time to define what the rule of law is or what the rule of law is. I am convinced that if we put aside some nuances of wording, then in fact all of you, good ambassadors, have a fairly common understanding of what the rule of law is, which is the substance and meaning of the rule of law. If someone wants to make them more precise or to formulate them, the authoritative sources are very easily available, so that it does not need to be timed at the moment. I will try to remain specific and answer the question whether the rule of law in Estonia is in danger or not. I will begin by stating that, in my opinion, the fundamental principles of the rule of law in Estonia stand firm. We have a 30-year unbroken democratic tradition right behind us. A generation has passed since the constitution, the foundations of the legal order and the establishment of state institutions. During this period, all of us have been further developed and strengthened in the spirit of their values enshrined in the Constitution. I dare say that the rule of law has become part of our culture and identity. This fact in itself is the best guarantee that these principles will continue. On the other hand, however, I would like to emphasise that the rule of law, in the same way as democracy, peace or freedom, is nothing in itself and, of course, guaranteed. In order for the rule of law to exist and democracy and freedom to function, we all need the faith and trust of society, as well as the effort. Now that I start talking about the dangers to the rule of law, I want to do this in the key to these assumptions: faith, trust and effort. Clearly, the rule of law could not exist if it lacked the support of the people. In turn, this popular support can only be based on the fact that society in general believes in the rule of law and trusts that the institutions concerned follow these principles and function normally. Although I have just argued that the idea of the rule of law has become part of our culture and identity, this fact does not in itself mean that the faith and trust that I am talking about will definitely exist forever. Encouraging distrust through search for conflicts and amplifying them through modern media tools and methods is a wider problem in society, but it certainly does not affect the preconditions for the rule of law. Just a slogan made out of some kind of attention, or even of a simplest indiscretion, to which today's increasingly intriguing ability of attention can be concentrated, can never solve any problem in itself, but it can do a great deal of damage or cause problems. I do not want to knowingly come up with any concrete examples here. With these examples, with the immediate motives of today's debate, I think that, separately, none of them deserve to call it a threat to the rule of law. It's all empty, let's say, separately. What, though, is the fundamental problem? If, on the one hand, the functioning of the rule of law is called into question at the level of example and direction in the view of public administration, or society, and, on the other hand, some individual statements, decisions or actions are expanded at the same level, which may have a very different background to deny or threaten the rule of law, such rhetoric will inevitably undermine the public's faith and confidence that the rule of law is necessary, effective and worthy of protection. I mean, according to my personal conviction, from the moment that the people no longer have that trust and belief, we are still very far away. But the historical experience of the world tells us that this moment can come very unexpectedly. And when it does, the restoration of the former situation, which we regard as obviously normal, is very, very difficult. Now I'm getting to the effort. Efforts. What am I saying? Compliance with the rule of law is not easy. I mean, both legislative and judicial procedures take time and resources to contribute to them, otherwise they simply do not work. Time, people, money and all other resources, why not mention the patience here too - they are always lacking. The resources are scarce; they are literally always scarce. That's why there's always the temptation to leave this difficult and complicated path aside and to search for some simple and quick shortcut, this imaginary shortcut, which gives some sort of desired result. It's so human. What I want to say is that, at the level of government and government, there is still this phenomenon on this direct road, that it can be justified by making an appeal to the will of the people, to the electoral mandate, to the coalition agreement or to some other higher knowledge or purpose. Such an argument always exists in the toolbox and the greater the risk of using it. I would like to stress that it is very dangerous to search and use such shortcuts. The process in this most fundamental sense and its compliance with the rules in lawmaking, executive power and justice is not an obstacle to development and achievement of results, even though it may seem from time to time to time, on the contrary, it is the best measure, which has proved itself in practice so far, in order to achieve a balance of interests, an optimal solution and the avoidance of errors, both vital to society. Policy can also be implemented through institutions operating in the rule of law, within their respective competences and following the rules. This does not mean that in such a situation, government is controlled by a deep state or a conspiracy of officials rather than by representatives of the people. If we understand this, then I would argue that our rule of law as a whole is not at risk. Now I would like to mention briefly the narrower issue of the law enforcement system, the police, the prosecutor's office, the courts and, in my opinion, the current state and state of play of the advocacy. I dare say that, in general, this system works, i.e. there is nothing in the system as a whole that would give rise to a threat to the rule of law. I would argue that both the prosecutor's office and the courts are so independent of the legislative and executive authorities that we do not initiate or deal with any investigations or cases arising from political or other out-of-court motives. We are at the forefront of Europe in terms of efficiency indicators of justice in comparison with other countries, especially in terms of speed of procedures. We have reason to be proud in that sense. The independence of courts is also very well guaranteed in Estonia according to all international indicators. All that I say does not, of course, mean that we do not have any serious problems and we should be satisfied with what is happening in this system without reservations. Despite the considerable efforts we have made and the progress made, there is a problem in criminal proceedings, in civil matters, in pre-trial proceedings and in court. Things like this happen, and it's actually unacceptable. I would like to emphasise that I believe that the increasing concern is that the efficiency of the procedure, and above all the effectiveness of the procedure, will be looked at in such a narrow cost-effectiveness key, that is to say, at the lowest possible cost and as soon as possible, a result must be achieved, which is, in itself, sufficient as an indicator, that the law enforcement system should give priority to another indicator and that is the quality of the outcome of the procedures. It seems to me that we are now entering or entering a situation where the resources allocated to the law enforcement system, both in terms of people and funds, are not sufficient to cope with all the tasks assigned to these institutions by the law in force. Resources are always limited, but in the context of these limited resources, optimisation of processes cannot infinitely increase efficiency in such a way that quality does not suffer. In principle, in the near future, your daily work in this Chamber will have to begin to consider whether additional resources should be directed there or, as an alternative, the functions that these institutions are expected to perform should be limited in order to achieve a better functioning of the law enforcement system. I want to say that both alternatives are, in principle, possible, and also in a way that the rule of law does not suffer, here we simply have to make some deliberate choice. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Finally, I would like to tell you that, in my opinion, the rule of law is not in danger in Estonia. Please believe it's working! Trust its rules and institutions. As a legislator, you have the power to further consolidate the rule of law and, believe me, it serves the interests of the coalition and the opposition in the long term, of all political forces, of all of us. Rules and institutions can be developed and improved, but slogans alone are not enough. Complex problems need to be dealt with in a complex way, it is complex, but there is probably no simple solution. Let's push, let's do some substantial work, and it'll pay off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U39	Thanks to the waitress! Let's continue with the questions. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you very much for this philosophical deepening. And thank you also for mentioning that compliance with the rule of law is not easy, but also that you believe that the rule of law is not in danger here. I'm glad to hear that. However, I am not certain of your understanding that we in this Chamber share the same understanding of what the rule of law is. Well, he's still a whole picture of laws, customs, behavioral culture, but also faith. And one problem could be lack of laws or not universality. This is often the source of protests, bitterness, and all of this. That's where I'm asking you: if you look at the whole picture of this rule of law, which way do you think it's going? Or what area should he be repaired most?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U41	Thank you for your question. It is, of course, very relevant in itself, but it is not easy to answer that question. In this sense, in order to establish some sort of one or two clear priorities and to say that when we deal with them, we are definitely moving in the right direction, I am not sure that this is possible at all. Now that we are talking about laws or what the Riigikogu is dealing with, in a narrow sense, there is one problem that is important and is also the problem of the rule of law in the wider sense, which you have been told a lot and I agree with these positions, it is that the regulatory burden on society has reached a relatively critical limit. I am not thinking here of the narrow number of regulations that have been increasing all the time; statisticians can give concrete examples, but I am talking more about a qualitative indicator. Perhaps the amount of legislation and their quality together have become such that, figuratively speaking, from the point of view of the ordinary person and the ordinary entrepreneur, to do your day-to-day business without breaking any norm, is already relatively complicated. This is a serious problem in society that the legislator must address, because if it is not dealt with, there will be consequences. In such a case, where compliance with all the rules is in principle not possible, the only result can be that the rules will be complied with selectively and applied selectively. And that is, in principle, something that does not agree with the rule of law in any way. But how can we improve the quality of existing law and thus reduce the regulatory burden on society? There are certainly many more things that can be done at the level of the Riigikogu. But one thing, if I had to highlight something, I would specifically like to make an effort to support trust and increase it in society. We still have the rule of law and it is worth contributing to it. Let's not give up! Let's not wear it down and call on some way I'm going to say, a comprehensive restorative, which basically says that everything we had is completely forgotten now. This isn't the way. We are perfectly able to improve the current situation, first and foremost, through our awareness of the need for trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U42	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U43	Thank you, President of the sitting. Thank you, dear waitress. I thank you very much for this balanced presentation in the context of today's initiative. But I have a very specific question for you, as President of the Bar Association, who will therefore certainly represent one of the foundations of the rule of law. Just give me a short answer. If the prosecutor forces the witness to make false statements in exchange for opportunity in the course of the proceedings, do you think it is a crime in the State of Justice or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U44	If the D.A.'s gonna use that kind of coercion, yes, that's a crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U45	Urmas Espenberg, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U46	Thank you, President of the sitting. Thank you, good waitress. You rightly mentioned that the speed of judicial proceedings is quite good. Maybe it's gonna hurt a little bit of quality. In India, for example, a judgment sometimes needs to be held for 400 years. But I have a specific question, even though you said that individual cases are irrelevant. In particular, Mary Kross's case, the apparent lying, which also came into existence in the pre-election period and may have influenced the outcome of the elections, was ended relatively neutrally. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U47	Yes, I will only say two very brief remarks on this. Firstly, in expressing any views on specific cases that I have not dealt with myself, I am extremely careful that I do not really know what these facts were. I am therefore reserved for assessment purposes. But to answer your question directly: if I look at this case on the basis of the facts that have been reflected in the press, I do not understand the decision to terminate this procedure on this basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U48	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a somewhat further question on my colleague's question. You referred to trust in the rule of law in your very good presentation. We have a lot of examples here from last year, from the past. One is the same Mary Kross case. Also here in front of the castle, a man was raving at the demonstration, left completely unpunished, but the people who tried to stop him were punished. The socialist drunk driver got caught in a criminal drunk, the prosecutor closed the case against him, the person got away with a clean record, while the person caught with the residuals gets punished and his name goes to the criminal record. Please tell us whether we can still claim that the prosecutor's office and courts are politically independent and even every day will increase confidence in the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U50	Thank you for your question. I'd say it like that. Of all the cases you mentioned, and of the solutions that have come to these matters, I do not consider any manifestation of a 'political bias'. It means that the law enforcement system is the prosecutor's office or the court makes some kind of decision, which, for example, is fundamentally unacceptable to me or to you or society at large, can be explained for a wide range of reasons. My personal conviction is that political bias in Estonia hardly affects these decisions at all. The circumstances that may affect such decisions are recklessness, stupidity, lack of time, whatever. In short, there are some very practical problems that we cannot deny. What I want to say is that no system is foolproof in this sense that avoiding errors is guaranteed and absolute. Ultimately, we also have people in the law enforcement system, and people, like all of us, generally act on our best understanding and deliberately make no mistakes, but from time to time, they either accidentally or for some unknown reasons. Of course, such mistakes do not increase society's confidence in these institutions. But my call is simply to acknowledge that individual mistakes cannot call into question the fundamentals of the system and the values it brings about. I myself have, in my everyday work, debated some cases at several levels of court, and each time I have received some sort of judicial solution that I read and think about how this is possible, it is not normal. But in the end, I have to realize that the question is not that the system in which I hold this argument, and the way these decisions are made, is fundamentally wrong. It was just in this particular case that I failed to convince the court. So I'm going to have to correct my argument next time, let's say so. Perhaps these few negative phenomena must in us rather create the motivation to direct this system to further self-repair rather than to dismantle it and say that we need some other and better system.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U51	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You made such a statement that the first condition of the rule of law was the support of the people, and yet you questioned the status of Poland as a rule of law. As far as I know, there have been democratic elections in Poland; the government has received majority support. How do we put these arguments together now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U53	Thank you for your question. Yeah, sure, let's say, politicalists and sociologists could better answer that, but my understanding of this problem is as follows. I mean, in itself, the fact that some kind of political approach has been achieved by the elections from the people to the point of view that he has received a single mandate of no kind of 'carte-blanche', a blank declaration that everything that is done on the basis of this political mandate coincides with the will of the people. They're different things, though. And I would like to say to Poland that this is again, in some respects, a very political dispute, even though it is actually a legal issue in relation to all the European Union's budgetary procedures and similar matters, it remains mainly political. My deep conviction is that the judicial reform in Poland, which has now led directly to take the view that Poland is not well with the rule of law, is certainly not something that has undisputed popular support. Of course, at the moment, as I say, I am simply arguing from the point of view, because perhaps there have also been some kind of public polls in Poland and there is unanimous support for it, although I am not sure at all. But looking at what's going on in the streets, when the people come to defend the court on the street, it seems to me, and I've grown up in our system completely incredible that something like this is happening. Polish society in this sense has not evolved much differently from us. It is so unprecedented that it has also reached a level where I do not think it can be said to exist in terms of support from society.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U54	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U55	Thank you. Mr. Tehver! I don't understand the DA's decision in a particular case either, but I respect his right to make his choice. I don't understand where the bacterium is and how it reproduces, but I respect the right of food control to decide. Similarly, the right of technical supervision to decide whether radars can operate when windmills are at a particular height. Who I do not trust is a politician who says that there is a need to change the laws that do not allow him to deal effectively, to act in those directions where there is such a relationship of trust or competence, or to change, to replace the people who are in his way and who do not follow his political direction. I therefore ask whether you agree with me in these statements or in these statements, and whether you stick to the fact that there should be a message today, above all, that the rule of law is not at risk. Provisions written by the rule of law, perhaps not so much, but still. Is this good news of today's debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U56	Thank you for your question. I still stand firm, I may be too stubborn, but basically I am sticking to my basic message that even the things you have been talking about, at least not yet, I think, are not qualified as a threat to the rule of law. This rhetoric about how, if some kind of law hinders the implementation of policies, this law must be amended, and if the administration is hindering the implementation of the policy, it must be rid of this official body, it is not, in my understanding, in accordance with the rule of law, of course. But what I'm saying is that in my view, I'm just an outsider, this rhetoric seems to be largely nothing more than rhetoric. I strongly believe that the practical application of such an approach will not become dominant in Estonia and that the individual cases in which it is done will ultimately receive an appropriate solution to the rule of law. Figuratively speaking, if someone has been dismissed from office without a legal basis, the final word remains with the court. And in this key, I believe that we have the rule of law and so-called smooth these problems. In short, I would like to say that what you have referred to is certainly not, in my opinion, compatible with the rule of law, but it also does not qualitatively qualify as a problem of such gravity that I would call this a threat to the rule of law. It's just how to say inappropriate behavior. Once again, however, the strength of the rule of law is demonstrated by whether this approach will eventually lead the country or whether it will still be carried out through the same processes and institutions, the importance of which I emphasised, as well as by those who make these rhetorical claims, to finally make it clear that listen, that is not the way things are going.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U57	Raimond Kaljulaid, next question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U58	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you very much for this presentation and for the answers to these questions! Very substantive, thank you! I have this question: if we now think ahead once, you say that you do not see a sharp threat right now, and we imagine that in the coming years, for example, the political party leading the government will appoint one of its leading politicians, one of its leading politicians to lead the national broadcasting, the politicians of the same party to run the Bank of Estonia, would it be something that you think would reduce to a critical limit the belief of society in the mutual independence of these institutions? If they are led by people who are bound by the work done together over the years, perhaps even over a longer period, to implement one of the worldviews, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U59	Thank you. It is also a question that it is very difficult to answer so briefly that, in the same way, well-specific, of course, a situation where, for example, the independence of the judiciary in principle disappears, for example, by the fact that the positions in this institution are filled only by political preferences, would be a crisis of the rule of law, analogous to what is happening in some individual European countries today. But I would like to make such a small reservation here that the view of the world and whether a particular person has ever expressed his or her views in a political party, etc., is not in itself a fact that, necessarily, when he or she is appointed to a position, it is harmful that he or she is going to represent the same view of the world there, to do the party's business. It doesn't have to be that way. In short, what I certainly wish would never happen, and I hope that it will not happen, because the Estonian laws guarantee it, is that if we do not have anything fundamentally new from this Riigikogu hall, it will remain so. There must be no manning of courts through a choice based on political preference.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U60	Thank you. Time for the report is up and the time to answer the questions is up. We thank the waitress and the questioners for an interesting debate. I ask Steven-Hristo Evestus, former Public Prosecutor of Estonia and member of the board of the Society's Corruption Free Estonia, who also has 20 minutes to present.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U61	Hello, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. I, too, have the honour to be here before you today and to speak with you on this important issue, which is the possible threat to the rule of law. I was already introduced and mentioned that my former activities had passed through the law enforcement agency. I have worked as a prosecutor for 16 years, of which I have been a prosecutor of a number of large corruption cases in recent years, and I have recently seen basically how law enforcement and justice are happening in our country today. Today, however, I am in a completely different role before you, representing the civil society association Corruption-free Estonia. It should be noted that the non-profit sector, its representatives, also has a specific place in the rule of law in order to play an active role in matters of governance. Therefore, representatives of civil society are not involved in any type of attempt to reap any benefit or fame from the pain issues that are currently facing the public. Unfortunately, Estonia has been in the picture quite often in recent months as an association without corruption. This is where we come to today's topic of the rule of law and its functioning. How do I understand the rule of law? I understand the rule of law in such a way that it is a country whose day-to-day activities and functioning are based on laws. I also accept that the political-world-view value that is beginning to influence it comes very decisively. What, then, are the values in our Estonian rule of law that need continued protection? Well, these are the fundamental rights of every one of us, aren't they? This is, of course, the separation of powers that has already been spoken about today and, of course, the independence of the courts and the legality of administration. I was talking about values, and we were just talking here about my previous speaker answering questions about being in danger of the rule of law. I dare be a little more critical about the question of whether the rule of law is at risk. I think that a number of ethical principles and values that have helped us build up the rule of law have recently been under attack. I also dare say that they have shaken the trust of many citizens in the system and that the actions of those who have been granted the right to lead the country are always legitimate and respect the rule of law. I would like to give an example of our activities, which include ministers and the Riigikogu Anti-Corruption Commission. The Council of Europe's Association of States against Corruption GRECO has given Estonia instructions that must be completed by June next year. One of them is that the activities of ministers and their political advisors must be transparent, i.e. they must be based on ethics and generally accepted values. We are now in a situation where all of us, the citizens of the country, have to be parties, or evaluaters, in a situation where everyone has learned more about what a conflict of interest in anti-corruption law is or what the threat of corruption is. I am not going to evaluate the behaviour of any minister or his advisor today either. But, of course, in the rule of law, I would have expected substantive assessments from those who, for example, made a decision on an official exempt from the ministry. In today's first speech, too, it was quite clear which we are missing in terms of reasoning for decisions. What kind of damage is that gonna do? It damages in the form of fear and uncertainty. This is damaging in this form: officials operating in the country may no longer be sure that their views and their actions will be accepted, for example, by members of the executive power. In sadder cases, this means that the weaker ones lose their heads or dare to express their views. The result is that the decisions of the officials are made to the satisfaction of someone or to the satisfaction of someone. How can this be avoided? This can be avoided, yes, indeed by the fact that ministers and political advisers are subject to specific codes of conduct in our country, that it is known what ethical expectations are for their action and that they also have an initial knowledge of what is a conflict of interest and what corruption is possible. This will prevent situations that we have recently reached. As far as officials are concerned, how to protect them, how to change this situation, the European Parliament has adopted a directive on hinting two months ago. And we have all entered this two-year preparatory period in order to change the approach of Estonia to how and in what way misbehaviour must be reported as a citizen. We have now been given a signal that the whistleblower can rather be expected to be condemned. I support the view put forward by the Chancellor of Justice that if we had acted under the rule of law in accordance with the law, it would have been justified for a particular official, for possible violations of his duties, whether he was guilty or not in any form, to initiate disciplinary proceedings and to detect or rule out any possible violations. Such an action plan was not chosen and the person was dismissed. There were a number of issues which, in my opinion, in terms of the threat of the rule of law, meant that no official could have the full assurance to the end that his conduct based on responsible law would be acceptable and acceptable. As I have mentioned to you, I have long been in a law enforcement office, and I probably do not know the rest of the world so well yet, and I will certainly look at the world with some sort of experienced lawyer. I cannot miss the fact that, now that too little time has passed since my exit from the law enforcement system, the criticism that has been launched in the direction of the justice officer has also not been commented on. When I spoke about one rule of law, which is certainly the independence of the courts, I can assure you, as this principle has been set in stone, that the justice officer works independently in Estonia. And even though I usually disagree with a lawyer's thesis, I'm sure I'll make an exception at this point in my life, and I agree that everyone can make mistakes. To this end, we also have a three-stage judicial system to effectively correct these errors. There are no such manifestations that our courts have somehow convicted anyone politically motivated in any situation. We do not have these examples. Whether these decisions are always to be expected is the question of those who examine the decisions to whom they are addressed, who are parties. And everyone has the right to argue about the outcome of the case. What are we missing? Perhaps sometimes when we talk about this case, about the case of giving false statements, on which questions have already been asked today, perhaps the first judge in the rule of law who, seeing this social debate started, should have given further explanations in this case. They came only yesterday, but obviously they already showed the reasons why the court made such a decision. When we talk about the lawyers, when we talk about the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office, we see in recent cases that both the Chancellor and the directors of the agencies have always been able to turn to the police and the prosecutor's office with their information. The prosecutor's office has not deliberately inclined to start criminal proceedings for each story in an instant, but has considered all the facts and has therefore rightly made a substantive decision on the possible initiation or non-opening of proceedings. We are therefore in a situation where we must state that the law enforcement system is functioning smoothly. However, such manifestations that the leaders of the law enforcement system have been attacked for no substantial reason, and precisely by pointing out that there are no substantive grounds against the former state's attorney-general for being unfit for his post, show that the rule of law can function badly without any justification by exchanging or rejecting the heads of these institutions. How? Certainly, when the head of the institution has been attacked, all the staff of the institution, the institution, will also be intimidated. At present, there is really no need to worry about whether these workers are now very seriously intimidated and, at the heart of this fear, made some kind of decision that does not comply with the law, but that gives cause for concern. This gives cause for concern that peace of work and values in these institutions can be disrupted for quite a long time. To sum it up. In summary, however, I would like to agree in the general plan that we are not losing the rule of law at the moment. I believe that our administration has not been politicised by anyone's will. I believe that our investigative authorities and the prosecutor's office are capable of their daily work. And I also believe that the justice is not tilted. But I think our everyday ethical principles deserve to be remembered and discussed. For this reason, civil society also feels more and more need to speak on issues related to the potential threat to the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U62	Thanks to the waitress! Let's move on to asking questions. Kalle Grünthal is now the first questioner.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My question concerns the funding scandal of the Reform Party. In May 2012, a political scandal broke out in Estonia concerning the donations of the members of the Estonian Reform Party, with which the members allegedly donated the money of anonymous supporters to the party as shadows. The case ended and these anonymous donations were transferred to the state budget by order of the political party funding monitoring committee, and the formal investigation was closed due to a lack of evidence. In short, it ended because it was found that this money was received from a "mother-in-law's pantry, but it was not possible to identify who brought the money into that pantry. Having also come into contact with the methodology of criminal proceedings and investigations, I ask: are you convinced that this scandal and investigation were closed on a national legal basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U64	Thank you for your question. Firstly, I mention that the case of funding for the Reform Party was to deal with my colleague, not to deal with me, so I do not know its substance, and the information I know is also based on public communication. Therefore, I cannot comment on my colleague's activities. But, of course, I am not familiar with any of the facts that would give me a reasonable basis to question this decision here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U65	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! A lot has been said recently that when we talk about the threat of democracy in the rule of law, about the threat to democracy, there is one manifestation that I think comes with it in different countries, including Estonia, a certain network of lies or the dissemination of lies literally in order to implement our own, say, incorrect policies. I encountered the last such lie when I watched the Estonian Television 'First Studio', where my good colleague Merry Aart from the EKRE Group also appeared. He claimed that the Government of Taavi Rõivas has not paid any cents of domestic aid during the crisis years 2014, 2015 and 2016. What do you think, if this mass distribution and reproduction of lies are carried out consistently, is there a risk to the transparent decisions that must be taken by the rulers? In my opinion, there is a risk of misleading the public in their decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U67	Yeah, I agree with that, of course. When I spoke in my brief presentation about the influence of ethics and values, its counter weapon is lying. Of course, a lie detracts from the credibility of society and creates the prerequisites that decisions made in its light are not legitimate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U68	Toomas Kivimägi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U69	Thank you, honorable Vice Speaker! Very respectable waitress! My question is actually motivated by Jaanus Tehver's report, but since I couldn't ask him, I'm sure you can also comment. I was a little concerned about Mr Tehver's position. He argued that the rule of law was not in danger and that it was rhetoric. I say it is the opposite: it has taken several steps further than rhetoric. If we take the case of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, it's actually a model of a power state. A person who reports an offence, in this case the Chancellor, will be released. What is this message to the public and other officials? Don't complain, don't report to law enforcement if you see offences, because in that case, you might lose your job. Moreover, you also mentioned that, in fact, the values on which the rule of law is built have been hit. How worried are you about the future of the Estonian rule of law? And perhaps another small line aside: Mr Tehver mentioned that the rule of law can still rely on the people, but, in fact, the people have very few opportunities to have a say when the country goes off the rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U70	Thank you for your question. Yeah, that's why I brought up the example of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. That is why I have already given my opinion to the public in the past. I think that the way things were going, as was the case with this ministry, has a greater impact. Although officials joined, the Chancellors joined and assured the people that they would continue to be credible and that they would not be affected, I think that this alone is not a sufficient guarantee to underestimate this unsubstantiated release of the chancellor of the Ministry of Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U71	Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U72	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Honourable waitress! First of all, a small reminder: the so-called Savisaar process had Laura Vaik as the state's prosecutor at first; she had to bring the charge to court and prove it in court. In his letter to Attorney General Lavly Perling, however, he informed the Attorney General that there was no evidence to be found in this case. This letter also leaked to the public. By order of the Attorney General, you're the one who got into this position instead of Laura Vaigu. Please tell me, if at first there was no evidence necessary for the conviction, how did you, when you took the lead in the process, come up with this evidence later? Or if the evidence was sufficient in your opinion, why did you later artificially start creating them, ending the case with an oportunity against the suspects? As your chief prosecutor, did you take advantage of the situation of the suspects, convince them, force them to give false statements during the trial for opportunity in order to obtain the evidence necessary for conviction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U73	Yeah, there were a lot of questions, thank you for that! Evidently, answering questions would now take time to agree on a new deadline for the closing of the sitting. But I'm trying to sum up something. Yeah, I was the prosecutor of Edgar Savisaar's case. This role has now been taken over by another prosecutor, which is why, given the current stage of the case, where litigation has been held and where the court will issue a judgment in January, I will certainly not dissect the evidence gathered before the Riigikogu in essence or give them any assessment. I also ask all of you to be patient until the beginning of January, when the Court of First Instance will decide. As regards the possible lack of evidence and the creation of such evidence, I would point out that in this case Laura Vaik, the public prosecutor who acted as my predecessor, pointed out certain questions that needed to be resolved, not that there was no concrete evidence to prosecute. As far as my actions in running this case are concerned, as a carrier of the prosecution function, I can say that I have acted in accordance with the law in this procedure. Neither in the pre-trial procedure nor in the legal proceedings have there been any irregularities in my activities. As regards the possible issue of coercing false statements, the prosecutor's office has also adopted and formalised its position on this. No signs of crime were found. My statement already made in December, to which I will stick in December this year, applies: I have never asked any accused or witness to give false statements. The process of preparation for the hearing involves discussing with the Witnesses the circumstances on which the prosecutor or the lawyer wishes to ask questions. So this procedure, too, was perfectly legal and conducted with the participation of a lawyer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U74	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U75	Yes, thank you! As I was mentioned, I say that indeed, at that time farmers had zero on the list of subsidies. What I was talking about was the crisis aid of the European Union of 7.6 million, in which Estonia was the only one with Cyprus who added zero euros for its part, and other countries added it. But we could talk about it alone, Urmas. It's not a lie, it's a fact. But let's get to the question. I do not want to quote you precisely or I cannot do so, but you have said in Juridica Abstract 2015 that international cooperation in criminal proceedings has gradually become more operational and effective, including through the establishment and operation of transnational research teams. You also stated that cooperation between the state, the prosecutor's office, procedural units, the Financial Intelligence Unit and the Financial Supervision Authority has been significantly strengthened. I take it you thought everything was on a good level. Hence my question: how did the Republic of Estonia end up in such an extensive money laundering scandal and have you been invited to explain the facts about the money laundering scandal of the Riigikogu Committee on Legal Affairs? Or is the statement made by the Attorney General Lavly Perling when he stated in the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee that the information could have moved better between the Financial Intelligence Unit, the Financial Supervision Authority and the Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U76	Time. Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U77	Your comment, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U78	Thank you for your question. I have dealt in depth with money laundering procedures, in addition to corruption crimes, and I have written this article by Juridica Abstract. Just before this Juridica Abstract article, I have been the accuser of the so-called Ateka case, where the Estonian court ruled that without a specific pre-crime, it is not possible to make convictions in money laundering matters. Therefore, I did indeed write about this pre-crime issue and the study of money laundering crimes in the issue mentioned by Juridica Abstract. It was designed to deal with money laundering offences in such a way that all institutions could contribute to this together. If you ask me why this was unsuccessful and why this major money laundering event was not dealt with in time, I would argue that after this court settlement, the law had been amended for three years and that it was only in December 2017 that the AML/CFT Act introduced wider possibilities for prosecution of the money laundering crime and a lower threshold of proof of pre-crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U79	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U80	Thank you, dear waitress. President-in-Office of the Council. I thank you for trying to explain a certain case to us here. But I'd ask you that. You're still suspected of committing a crime. Twice an application has been made to the Public Prosecutor's Office against you and Triin Olev for the initiation of a criminal case, two times for some reason it has been rejected. The application has now been submitted to the Tallinn Circuit Court for the third time and is currently pending. In the rule of law, is the former state prosecutor on whom proceedings have been initiated, a member of the board of the association Corruption-Free Estonia, and is it appropriate for us to talk about the rule of law here today? Shouldn't you have withdrawn yourself from the board of the Society of Corruption-Free Estonia when such suspicion has been presented to you, and shouldn't you have stopped speaking to us about the rule of law, despite the fact that the Reform Party thinks you are fit to perform here today and to tell us about the rule of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U81	First of all, I would like to remind you that I do not see my connection with the Reform Party because I am not embodied in a prosecutor who has completed the case of funding the Reform Party. Secondly, what I want to say to you is that this is a case and I also understand it, because you have not been involved in justice on a daily basis with a lack of knowledge of criminal proceedings. In fact, it is the suspect who has been questioned or who has been detained as a suspect. I have not even been the subject of criminal proceedings, so it is not possible to talk about any kind of suspicion before criminal proceedings are opened. Therefore, if there is doubt in someone's head, this fact does not prevent me from stepping out here today or acting on behalf of Corruption-Free Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U82	Urmas Reitelmann, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U83	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I will give you two examples of justice. There is a criminal currently sitting in Viru Prison, and in May there was a court ruling on him in the circuit court. He's been sitting there in solitary confinement for over two years. Circuit court said we need to get him out of there. Where do you think he's sitting today? He's still in solitary confinement. And then there is another known criminal, Assar Paul, who also filed the request for exemption, early, but the court wrote in his explanation, explaining why he cannot be released, that he is a more intelligent person than average, who, when released, may be embezzled by new criminal organizations or threads of some kind. And against this background, we are watching as the traitor Simm, who swore an oath to his country as a police officer, is released. We are talking about an enormous amount of trust here today in the Estonian judiciary and the prosecutor's office. Tell me, don't you think there's any dissonance here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U84	I note that I have supported the early release of Assar Paul on several occasions as a prosecutor in writing. And as a citizen, I also have the question of what message will the previous release of a traitor give? But I had to accept in my earlier post that the court did not agree with my position on the release of Assar Paul, and so must the Court's argument on the release of Herman Simm. So the arguments and circumstances that I have heard from the court about both Paul and Simm, after being familiar with them, I fully understand the Court's reasoning, and I do not see that there is any arbitrary or bias in making these decisions. The other thing is, can I agree as a citizen?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U85	Reuben Kaalep, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U86	Thank you. Good waitress! You defended the officials in your speech. Please explain now! If we have executive power, chosen by the people in full accordance with the rule of law as a result of a democratic process, and representing the ethical principles and values that the people want to see leading the Estonian state, then who are officials to argue with their values that the people have voted down in the elections! If, as a result of a democratic process in the rule of law, the values of the Heads of State change, why must officials not be turned out?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U87	I am of the opinion that an official must act in accordance with the law and that the law has not changed so far. The anti-corruption law clearly states that once an official has learned of a possible suspicion of corruption, he must notify it. I have this expectation of all officials, regardless of who they work for or who are trying to influence them with their political will.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U88	Maris Lauri, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U89	Thank you. Good waitress! I would kind of go ahead with that last question. You also spoke in your report about giving a hint. In our historical culture, this has often been called knocking, but the informants, as we know, have not had a good reputation because of legitimate circumstances. How can we encourage or support people who see, whether in the public or in the private sector, that something is really wrong? If this knowledge reveals that he has really passed on information, how dare that person say that things are wrong, not shut up or let things happen? How can we overcome this failure inside a person, especially in an environment where some are attacked for such a thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U90	Thank you. But we are coming back to the fact that a great deal depends on the basic values of the institution, the company, the head of the organization, who can make this channel, its attitude already work according to these values. That is why it is important, as I mentioned, to carry out communication work at ministerial level. Corruption-free Estonia also contributes to participating in private sector training to provide input and information on how to create these reliable channels. Let us finally give an example that when we ran into the TTÜ scandal in August, the university did not have a procedure for this, but it has been developed by now. It has been dealt with in two months, but the university has learned a lesson, drawn conclusions and improved its system. There is still much to hope that at least large companies, i.e. companies with more than 250 employees, will also feel the problems that have now come through the public, the TUT, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, how these channels should be set up and how their effectiveness should be monitored. Indeed, an easy call to come and inform may not meet expectations. This clearly requires the support of the management of the institution and the creation of a specific channel, a trustee, also for potential advisors.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U91	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the time for questions is over. I thank the waitress. And let's keep going. Let's open the negotiations. Speakers may be members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups. At the request of the Estonian Reform Party Group, I propose that the Riigikogu first speak with the representatives of the political groups. And the speaker, as usual, 5 + 3 minutes or speaking on the spot for 2 minutes. First, on behalf of the EKRE Group, I would like to ask Paul Puustusmaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U92	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are here in the Riigikogu Chamber because the Reform Party has raised the question of whether the rule of law is in danger. This is indeed an intellectually interesting issue. On the one hand, the President of the Bar Association, Jaanus Tehver, must certainly agree that there is no danger. And indeed, as far as the rule of law is concerned, we are safe. I was somewhat strange and perhaps even a little surprised by our first speech today, Kaja Kallas, when, behind this very threat to the rule of law, the training of how we must eat with a knife and fork was first and foremost brought out. It was clearly reflected that under this very important national issue, propaganda is being sought in itself. But maybe that's our current political ethics. Going back to the question of whether we are in danger of the rule of law, as I said, I will give a crucial answer: there is no danger. The main issue in our society today is not whether the rule of law is at risk, but whether our main question is based on our will, our desire for development, our vision. Rather, the question is whether this development of our country is right; whether we want to develop as we evolve and where we develop; whether the methods we have chosen for our country's development and the concepts that have brought us to date will also lead to further development. Those are questions. And now come the concepts, the rule of law, the state, the law alone, which is the framework for our people's customs, customs, perceptions, laws, up to the Constitution. They are an unmistakable pioneer for our country, a nation state enshrined in the Constitution. Even to the point that the current political outcome, or declared democratic rule of law, in today's paradigmical progression, as we understand it or interpret it, may, under certain conditions, be a threat to our future, our people and statehood, or constitutionally independent nation state and the survival of that state. This is the situation when we fatten this bureaucracy by building our knowledge of the rule of law; if, through ambivalent legislation containing the secret language of lawyers, and with the support of this country, we formalize it into official bureaucracy; if, by training lawyers in higher education, we teach that democracy is to give the minority power over the majority, as explained by one of our lecturers in the law of the University of Tartu; where we consciously accept a loss of national sovereignty, which devalues both our country and our constitution; if we build our country away from the real will and wishes of the people. There are these real dangers, or real dangers, that we are talking about. It is also a problem that democracy and the rule of law are mainstreamed through blurry policies and political technology that reduces society and its stability, where the opposition sees its sole objective in destructiveness, but as a more important form of action, the mainstream media is a much praised and deliberately chosen non-constructive glare monologue, which is affectionately called criticism. That is when they say that this is what we need and that the disappearance of which could threaten us, our society, democracy, our rule of law. In this way, the path of division of society is hidden behind the facade of the rule of law and the rule of law, with the desire to demolish our common national home, built in the face of our fathers and in the will of our forefathers. For there to be no misconception, I say that criticism is still welcome. Of course, it is welcome and expected, if this criticism is creative, that it is based on natural values and does not bark at wind and shadows. I'll take three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U93	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U94	No, we do not have a threat to the rule of law, but there is a threat to the law, there is a threat to the state. When justice and justice are increasingly developed in conflict with the fundamental principles of the Constitution, one of the most important is the fact that justice prevails over justice. In other words, if you do not want to comply with the constitutional requirement that justice is more important than justice. Or when the needs of society and the sense of justice in justice are completely forgotten and formalism prevails. Therefore, a matter of national importance is not a threat to the rule of law, but a threat to the state, a threat to the nation state, a threat to an independent state, a threat to the legitimacy of the legal order. Those are the questions. The fundamental problems facing our society, to which the sharp point must be directed, are that justice is separated from justice, that the state is separated from statehood and sovereignty, and that power is alienated from the people by the same power that fears its people and does not dare give it a higher decision-making power over more than once in four years. Therefore, as legislators, it is perhaps time to consider that we need a vigorous political paradigm shift. We need an effective replacement of fine-tuning with an evolutionary development towards a better and fairer statehood that does not abandon its ancestors' dream of a self-decided and unspoiled nation state. We will then call it a movement and make the rule of law a state of justice, a progressive advance from a liberal rule of law floating in stagnation to a state of justice that values its citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U95	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland, I would like to ask Mr Lotman to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U96	Mr President of the Riigikogu, I ask for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U97	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I want to thank the Reform Party for setting up this problem. The rule of law is dear to all of us and there is never too much rule of law. At the same time, I am a little skeptical about the alarmist tone that prevails in this Chamber in different directions: that the Estonian rule of law is in danger or is moving very quickly in a dangerous direction. I was looking at the new World Justice Project (2019), according to which Estonia's position is pretty good: 81% of 100. Denmark is in the best position with 95%, while Estonia is in the same position as Portugal and Canada, ahead of Italy, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland and a whole range of European countries and is at the top of the table. In Estonia, 84% of the government's powers are restricted. So Estonia is quite far from some kind of government dictatorship. Now let's talk about the rule of law. Coudenhove-Kalergit, who, say so, was not a great thinker, is presented as the theorist of the rule of law. But the theories of the rule of law have been developed by great thinkers: Kant, Hobbes, John Locke. I would particularly like to highlight Karl Jaspers, who, after the disaster of World War II, presented the theory of German rule of law. This was about the rule of law, the opposite of which is only some kind of power. The rule of law is also a power; only in the rule of law are the authorities separated. There are three powers and they are balanced. There are several opposites to the rule of law. On the one hand, it is the dictatorship of the majority. The fact that a political party in some country won a parliamentary election received some kind of majority from the people does not justify all its activities. All government activities in the rule of law must comply with the law. So, on the one hand, the dictatorship of the majority, on the other hand, the dictatorship of the minority, on the third hand, the police state, which is quite close to it, on the fourth hand, the administrative state with the authority of the officials. And the fourth is anarchy. I would like to propose a rule of law space in such four categories. Freedom is the most important of them. And freedom is balanced with democratic institutions and laws. Freedom without laws is anarchy etc. Democracy without laws is nothing good. And the fourth important element in the rule of law is trust in democratic institutions, laws and freedom. It's a theory. Now that we are looking at Estonia's practice, I must quite frankly admit that I do not see the dangers of the rule of law. There are some unpleasant manifestations. Above all, these are words, as Jaanus Tehver, Chairman of the Bar Association quite rightly pointed out. But words are also dangerous, and words can undermine faith in the rule of law. If we keep saying that the rule of law is in danger, then this multiplication itself constitutes a dangerous tendency, perhaps we do not have a rule of law. If everyone says the rule of law is in danger, then we are not living the rule of law. But we'll see that somehow we can do it. It's not good, it's not responsible. Now I'm talking about specific cases. The case of Elmar Vaher, in my opinion, shows how strong the rule of law is in Estonia. One minister wanted to illegally dismiss the director-general of the Police and Border Guard Board, Elmar Vaher. Well, he wanted a lot of people to want all kinds of illegal stuff, but he didn't succeed. I'm not a big fan of our Prime Minister, I have many reproaches for Jüri Ratas, but here, I'd say, he was exemplary. Both sides wanted you to fly the head, either the head of the minister or the head of the Mediterranean, but in any case he found a reasonable and peaceful solution. And this is a sign of the rule of law. I would like to emphasise here that the rule of law, like all other good things, does not work automatically, it works through us through the government, through Parliament, through the courts, etc. My time is running out, I didn't get to talk about Illar Lemetti, but I don't think this case is the kind of thing that threatens the rule of law either. Even if he is illegally dismissed, I am not at all sure that this is illegal dismissal, he is always entitled, in the rule of law, to go to court and set up justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U99	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U100	Thank you. We heard some very, very interesting presentations today. Thank you for that. And we also heard a series of questions. What I had to say is that faith, trust and effort are essential to the rule of law. As always, it takes effort, chaos itself. We have this belief in the rule of law, but there are questions with credibility. I do not agree with the previous speaker that speaking about threats to the rule of law, as you have expressed, would, in turn, undermine this rule of law. It's like we're not supposed to talk about it, because then our rule of law is in danger. I say the opposite: we need to talk about these things. Because the rule of law is also a transparent state. If there are rules, these rules are to be observed. Several times it also sounded like the real will of the people is that and the real will of the people. We've all been chosen here by the people. We have mandates of different sizes. The will of the people is expressed in the elections after the elections, and it is clear to what extent the will of the people was, and none of us can speak in the name of the will of some homogeneous people, because the will of the people is different, as are the views of supporters of different political parties on different issues. In my opinion, it is very dangerous when the rule of law is opposed and then the so-called country that the people really want. This is an example of this political state, this power state: as if one party, who, by the way, did not win these elections or speak entirely on behalf of the whole nation, can live out in the form of different decisions without having to take anything else into account. The undermining of the credibility of the institutions, which is carried out by various claims, will ultimately lead to no one trusting or believing anything at all. And if you don't believe the courts, if you don't believe the prosecutor's office, if you don't believe the law enforcement authorities, then it's really anarchy. After all, there is going to be an act of maladministration and self-understanding of this right if it is believed that the bodies that have made these decisions so far are not reliable. I think it's just as dangerous. The credibility of the institutions is undermined if they are constantly called into question. I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U101	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U102	I am not saying that individual decisions should not be criticised. Certainly, as the previous speakers said, very many decisions do not like. I don't, and you're gonna appeal them, you got a chance. You'll have an opportunity to appeal if you don't like a decision. This will ensure that it is reviewed by a different composition and a different composition, which will consider these arguments. And in the case of decisions, the question remains that no one likes this decision in one way or the other. This does not mean that the entire institution is essentially making wrong decisions. But if it is constantly called into question, if there are purely isolated examples, then I do not think that this is the right way. It's the same with the distribution of lies that came out of here. This eventually leads to no one believing in anything or anyone anymore. One comment for Reuben Kaalepi. The people do not choose the executive power. The executive power is confirmed here by Parliament, the legislative body. Parliament is elected by the people. So all these questions and comments made me think that one thing we could do to make the rule of law work better and not be at risk is education. Both members of the Riigikogu should be educated in what is still the separation of powers, what is the rule of law, which is the fundamental principles of the rule of law, but also children should be educated in schools, how our society works and how it can function better. Thank you for this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U103	Thank you. There is no further wish for the political groups to speak. Now all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor. Peter Ernitsa, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U104	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is the rule of law. I think it is. But we must also be convinced that this is the case. We have a constitution, we have laws, and everything's like fun. I would remind you of 4 March 2003 when, last day, Sunday, there were elections won by the Centre Party, which received 3843 votes more than the Res Publica that came to the picture at the time. But what happened the next day in front of the notary's office? Hands were cuffed by Panov, then assistant mayor of Tallinn, and Priit Tikerpel, former Deputy Director of the Capo. It has been said that this is the most brutal justice murder in modern Estonia and, in fact, the most brutal influence on the will of the people after the elections. Who was the executor? Andres Anvelt, then head of the crippo, who in a few years' time became both Minister of Internal Affairs and Minister of Justice. But who was the Prime Minister back then? The Prime Minister was our good colleague, Siim Kallas. Of course, the prime minister soon became Juhan Parts, head of Res Publica. I am convinced that Siim Kallas did not even know what was going on there, but with this brutal intervention, the intervention of the power structures, and the subsequent trial, the will of the people was distorted, and another force was given power, who received fewer votes. What happened to Panov and Tikerpe? When it finally ended in 2008, Priit Tikerpe said he could have gotten himself a new Audi for 700000, not to mention all the sleepless nights and stuff. In 2008, four years later, however, it turned out that there was nothing. It's just, sorry, a little mistake. In the meantime, Judge Shuvalov himself was also prosecuted and retreated. Now Res Publica is long gone from the picture, but, as our old colleague Igor Gräzin has said, the prosecutor's office is Res Publica's last refuges and is running his agenda there. Now, when you come to the Mary Kross case, it was a provocation just before the election, as the law enforcement authorities have now shown. How did the prosecutor act, and how did the court act at that time? I'm not gonna talk for a long time, you know, an opportunity that happens relatively rarely in these cases, but you see, it happened. It could be said that it was analogous, although, of course, a much smaller scale of so-called Panov making. There are examples. As a journalist, I have encountered many of them. Johannes Leas, remember, or the assistant mayors of Tartu, a whole bunch of different political parties, whether Suvorov, Kajar Lember or some others. The matter of land change, which the European Court of Human Rights has said, you see, the first instance judge was right, and even the money of pain. And now they're going to go to the next circle to make it right. Or in the case of Edgar Savisaar, a long stretch of investigation etc., etc. But there are actually a lot of problems that we should look at honestly. On the one hand, I would like to remind you here of Sten Luiga, the jury at the end of the Reform Party in the last days of 2016, where he spoke about state legal aid. In fact, since going to court is expensive for most people, there is not so much money, many things remain unchecked through the courts as to whether they are correct or not. And Sten Luiga, I'm quoting.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U105	Does the waitress have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U106	Yes, please, if you could!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U107	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U108	Sten Luiga says: '... The chronic under-financing of state legal aid is not a forced choice due to a lack of money, but a conscious and pragmatic decision that can regulate the workload of courts and prosecutors at the expense of restricting access for those in need. ' Is that a cynical statement by a lawyer, or is that what it is? This means that, in fact, many people will not go to court, even though this right is constitutionally guaranteed and should be guaranteed, but simply a wallet does not allow. I spoke here a moment ago with a respected performer, the current head of the bar, I asked him, and he said that there is indeed a very big problem. The rule of law should be able to check your rights, etc., but you can see that the wallet does not allow. Indeed, in recent times, if your income is less than EUR 1700, you will be able to get legal aid, but this aid is not for going to court, but simply for understanding your rights within this complex legal framework. Actually, as you can see, there are quite a few problems. And speaking here of whether the rule of law is in danger, yes, it can indeed be said, by some examples alone, that it is indeed in danger. We need to be on guard at all times so that we don't stray. And here to point a finger at someone, one party or another, is a little childish. The same examples I gave you are serious things. More could be said, for example, if the call was an hour long, I'd be happy to talk. So we must all be on guard here, regardless of which party we are. We have all sworn our allegiance to the Estonian state. I think that no one here wants the left side of the hall, the right side, or the middle part of the hall, not to be a bad thing or to be a rule of law. Our people should be able to exercise their constitutional rights as our constitution and many laws allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U109	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U110	Thank you! I have always believed that any decision should have a long-term perspective, should always have regard in particular to the interests of the state. Speaking from a more distant perspective, for example, the former British Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher, in one of his speeches already in the 1990s, warned that certain trends in the European Union, on which he was critical, could lead to the re-emergence of such extreme national movements. At the time, it was a very controversial position; it was such a position against deeper European integration. But after that, it's hard to say that he was wrong to the end. Undoubtedly, mistakes were also made in the management of these processes. What I am going to say next is, of course, somewhat controversial, I would like to apologise in advance. However, I think that the party that initiated this debate today should also ask itself whether they, too, have any role in creating the assumptions that have led to the current situation. It cannot be denied the fact that this party was leading Estonia's life very strongly from 1999 to 2016. This does not mean that everything was done wrong then, absolutely not. I think that it was a very big decision that was so forcefully pushed into the administrative reform, at last. The adoption of the law of cohabitation is a very correct decision. But at the same time, certain people had, and now have, faith in their infallibility, faith in their irreplaceableness, as well as their attitude towards ethnic minorities, which I do not think has always been fair or dignified. In 2007, the executive power in Estonia, the head of the Supreme Court, the chairman of the management board of national broadcasting, the head of Eesti Pank, was all in the hands of one party. In this situation, could we talk about a real, clean solution to the authorities? This, of course, does not stagnate at all the attack which the EKRE has now begun on the rule of law and which is indeed a great threat to Estonia. But I really believe that if we want to resolve this situation, we must recognise that it has its own international dimension, which has been referred to here, we are not the only country in Europe that has this concern, which we have, but it also has a national dimension, history. We cannot deny that either, because if we deny it, we will not solve this problem. So, in my opinion, one of the preconditions for the emergence of today's situation was that from which I began: putting party interests above national interests and not very precise assessment of the long-term and impact of my decisions. We can avoid these mistakes in the future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U111	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U112	Honourable Riigikogu! I would like to thank Mr Evestus for his perfect presentation and Mr Tehver for his very balanced presentation. Just a little hint that in an unbalanced environment, every imprecise phrase that will live its life will be used. Fortunately, this was resolved in the course of the answers. I agree with the general arguments of both rapporteurs that the rule of law is not at risk. However, this does not mean that they are not attacked and that the functioning of the rule of law is not compromised in practice. These are examples from today's hall. One part of the company only deals with settling any personal political bills, 'political bills', not 'personal', looking for justice in specific matters where there is a legal solution, and not really talking about rules, but about individual cases. This danger is also reflected, indeed, in what has been said here a few times in the reports, that decisions are not justified, but made on a discretionary basis. What is extremely scary is the way a particular chancellor has been treated. And here's not the answer, but he can go to court. Unfortunately, in the rule of law, yes, the court will decide, and it will be possible for him to go to court, but that will not undo the maladministration. I call it horror because, probably dozens of times, the Prime Minister has already repeated here, even yesterday, that it was some sort of management decision that both have to go away when one has to go. It's so illogical and so unreasonable, it's horrible. But the rule of law is also in danger of being attacked all the time. When people are attacked, the abstract rule of law is attacked. In such a situation, people also fail to make legitimate, even moral, decisions, and withdraw. And the officials have already been hit. When it is said that ministers say that they do not care what experts and public officials say, it is also a sign that the rule of law does not work. Because these people have been given their authority, and they cannot carry out their duties in this way if the arbitrary and intimidation of politicians prevails. There are attacks against the law. If, however, the vice-president and minister of one government department, among other things, says that the laws that prevent ministers from acting effectively must be amended, meaning specific cases where "efficiency" is meant to be of any kind. These specific cases concern the right to inspection. They concern places where the involvement of politicians in the proceedings is excluded. I don't know what's going on with these radars, and it may not make any sense to me, but I really respect the right of the Technical Surveillance Authority and the Department of Defense to decide whether the windmills may be in front of them. I do not know exactly if the bacteria are in a particular factory, but I respect the right of this inspection to make this decision, but I do not respect the politicians who attack these institutions. I don't understand many... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U113	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U114	... judgments or decisions of prosecutors, but I have no right to attack them from power, position, political position. But they do. The rule of law is also in danger of the fact that, when you look at who is in charge of our committees, the Committee on Legal Affairs is led by the head of a party who is criminally sanctioned, who is completely indiscriminately, completely linearly dealing with political billing and calls for the election winner to apologise for his policy or for the policy of that party. The criminally sanctioned party demands that the winner of the elections apologize for his policy at the time, this is a grotesk, without any cooperation with him. Similarly, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs speaks about the legitimacy of the state in a nation with six-quarters support, about the same tone as others would have no say, but in fact, the same is the case with individual examples. It's pretty ugly. Now, I guess the last waitress before me actually settles personal accounts. This is also a question of the rule of law as to whether a party member may hold non-political positions, especially when he has left the party. Such parallels from the past are completely counterproductive because, in each individual case, it must be compared to the current situation, the activities of these people in an independent position must be compared. And I am sure that what has been spoken here, whose name I do not want to name, so that he will not be able to settle the matter, has also done a favor to those who are actually attacking the rule of law. We have no Supreme Court, no national broadcasting, and what was the third example? In this case, there is no reason to blame their drivers for their politically biased activities. However, there is a reason to accuse a man who has run out of this room of settling political accounts and of the political, say, trauma he suffered under the upbringing of that criminally sanctioned party and its unpunished chairman. Such invoicing should not interfere with our debate or dispel the impression of the rule of law. Of course, it could also be said that the truth and the right are not more generally related to the rule of law, for example, if the minister narrates the Riigikogu and then also the Chairman of the Riigikogu threatens the Riigikogu and is linearly on the side of that threatening minister of purely party choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U115	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U116	Good Chairman! Good coworkers! Three minutes less, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U117	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U118	No, I wanted less, no more. Because I think it may be exciting to listen to this debate, but I am looking at one thing, I think that, in fact, most of you come from the fact that the state is always right. We have come here to make this country better to protect our citizens, but we are stuck in a number of legal nuances from time to time, and then we are saying that criminals are right. Yeah, they're right, but I'll tell you one thing. Believe me. Here we signed that we are steadfast in faith for this Estonian state, and I am simply saying: the rule of law is not in danger, the state is always right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-12_U119	Thank you. There's no further call request. I thank all the waitresses, all the questioners! Today's debate on a key national issue is closed. Have a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 12.50 p.m.
