ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-14_U1	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to welcome you to the start of a new working week. Before we go to the official part of today, I say that ladies and gentlemen have asked me to remember a date. Today 75 years ago, in mid-October 1944, tens of thousands of boat refugees desperately tried to leave Estonia in fear of the new Soviet occupation. On 14 October, we will celebrate the anniversary of the great escape. With this in mind today, it would be appropriate to stress that our primary aim in policy making should always be to avoid situations where our people should leave Estonia against their will. Let us then go to the working part and start the Monday session of the 5th working week of the 2nd plenary session. To begin with, everyone has an excellent opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-14_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion and fraud and related protocol. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Penal Code and related amendments to other laws. The Government of the Republic is represented by Raivo Aeg, Minister of Justice, when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-14_U3	Thank you! There is no further wish to submit drafts or requests for information. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and the Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu Act. I also have some announcements for respected members of the Riigikogu. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be an establishment meeting in this Chamber of the Estonian-Türkmenistan Parliamentary Group, convened by Igor Kravchenko. There will also be a meeting of the support group for Orthodox ambassadors, convened by Natalia Malleus, after the plenary session. We're going to the presence check. Please! Seventy-four comms are here, 27 are missing. I am voting on the approval of the 5th working week agenda for the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 75 comms in favour, and there's no one against it. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-14_U4	We are now approaching today's item on the agenda. Second reading of Bill 61 of the Act amending the Traffic Act on the withdrawal from the European Union of the United Kingdom initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'll remind you of our procedure. First of all, there is a presentation by the representative of the commission, which lasts up to 20 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two oral questions to the rapporteur and the duration of the question shall be one minute. The negotiations will then begin. Members of the Riigikogu, representatives of committees and political groups can speak (from the pulp 5 + 3 minutes or from the floor 2 minutes). I would first like to ask the representative of the Committee on Economic Affairs, the vice-chairman of the Commission, Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-14_U5	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This is a draft which, by its very nature, concerns a process of great importance, or Brexit, but regardless of how this problem resolves, we are in the process of defining what happens in Estonia from driving licences issued in the United Kingdom. According to the PBGB, this concerns nearly 1,400 people in Estonia. It shall determine how these driving licences are to be used, how they are to be exchanged, etc. A meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs took place between the first and second readings on 7 October and the draft was discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Two amendments had been received, both have been distributed to you. Both are technical specifications in nature. Both proposals were supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and unanimously approved by the Commission. It was proposed that the draft be sent to plenary for second reading by 16 October 2019 and sent to third reading when the second one is closed. That would be a brief summary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-14_U6	Thank you. Do you have any requests for the floor? Any questions? I don't think so. I'm opening negotiations. It seems that there is no wish for negotiations either. Let us examine the amendments. So where are they? First amendment, amend § 1 of the draft... What? So, the first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal has been fully taken into account. The second amendment is the same from the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal is to be taken fully into account. Checked. Okay. Now we're getting to the end. The commission's proposal, as I heard, is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-10-14_U7	The following is an opportunity for all members of the Riigikogu to use a free microphone and register for this after the hammer kick. I don't think that's what I want either. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3.11.
