ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is possible to start by handing over drafts and enquiries. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of six members of the Reform Party Group, I would like to report on the inquiry to Minister for Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige. Inquiry led us to write over the last six months about the problems that have come to the public via the media regarding e-cigarettes. Parents and teachers have pointed out an unacceptable situation in which young people trade e-cigarettes in social media, schools and streets. The media also refers to the growth of border trade in e-cigarettes, as well as the problem of mixing e-liquids themselves, which may prove very dangerous when using the wrong components. The users of e-cigarettes warned of these problems when the previous Riigikogu discussed the regulation of e-cigarettes. These warnings were not taken into account by the Ministry at the time when they were introduced. On this subject, we have quite a number of questions for the Minister of Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U3	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Social Democrats, I am handing over the draft Act supplementing § 3 of the Psychiatric Assistance Act. In short, it is a very simple, one-page bill, but basically it has a huge impact. The purpose of the draft measure is to amend the provision of the psychiatric assistance law governing the provision of psychiatric assistance to minors and other persons with reduced capacity. To clarify this objective, I will read about the address of the Chancellor of Justice to the Minister of Social Affairs in July of this year. I quote: 'The law does not currently allow psychiatric assistance to be provided to a minor without parental consent. Of course, parents usually need to be involved, but there are exceptions when this is not in the interest of a minor (a child is a victim of domestic violence, for example) or is not possible (a parent, for example, has travelled abroad). In these cases, a young person of 17 years of age suffering from depression, eating disorder or addiction cannot be helped in a timely manner, who has turned to a psychiatrist for assistance, who is medically well-founded and who, according to a psychiatrist, is sufficiently mature to give consent. ' Dear friends, this is not a political position of any political party. I very much hope for the support of all of you to process this bill, the draft act supplementing Article 3 of this Act on Psychiatric Assistance. It's a small step for us, but a big step for the kids. Look at the latest stories about child abuse by foster parents or parents! Let's do this together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U5	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry and one draft. The Management Board of the Riigikogu deals with them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, now the announcements. Today, after the plenary session, there will be an opening meeting of the Estonian Food Industry Support Group in this Chamber. The caller is Kai Rimmel. Incoming check, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 17.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U6	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law on the amendment of the consular law initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, do the groups have a desire to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the consular law initiated by the Government of the Republic and in this connection amending other laws. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U7	Let's keep going. Today's second item is the debate on the important national issue 'The future of higher education in Estonian' initiated by the Isamaa Group. Before we go to that, I will briefly introduce the procedure. First, Mikhail Lotman, a member of the Isamaa Group, has a presentation for up to 20 minutes and questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Cleveron AS is then co-founder and manager of Arno Küti's presentation for up to 20 minutes and questions and answers are also up to 20 minutes. After that, the former head of the Estonian Student Union, Sigrid Västra, will give a presentation for up to 20 minutes, and the questions and answers will also be up to 20 minutes. And fourthly, the winner of the Estonian research prize, Martin Ehala, professor of native language studies at the University of Tartu, and also the opportunity to ask questions for up to 20 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to each rapporteur, followed by negotiations. I have a request that representatives of the political groups speak first, and then all the members of the Riigikogu who wish to do so. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us go to the debate on today's second item. I would like to ask Mikhail Lotman, a member of the Fatherland Group, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U8	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonian is under pressure. He's always been under pressure for at least the last thousand years. [[The room is called for the waitress to speak louder.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U9	Please, Mikhail, try to get closer to the microphone or pull the microphone closer to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U10	Well, it doesn't work what I can do. [[The manager assures me he's working.]] It's working now. So the Estonian language has been under pressure. He's always been under pressure for at least the last thousand years. Pressure sources and causes have been different, but the compression itself is a kind of constant. In itself, pressure on language may not always be a bad comparison and competition with other languages is one of the incentives for language development. It is a bad thing, however, when there is a takeover instead of competition, some language functions are taken away or given away. For centuries, Estonian was under pressure from German. In the last third of the 19th century until independence and again during the occupation, the pressurer was Russian. In brackets, it could be noted that in Northern Estonia the influence of Finnish was also felt towards the end of the occupation period. Now, however, the main thing is the pressure of English. The specifics of the current situation are that we tend to give up a number of language areas and functions ourselves and, unfortunately, it does not take place in pop culture or online, for example, but also in Estonian higher education. This does not mean that I do not understand or consider economic and administrative reasons that make high schools close down small Estonian-language specialties or combine them with larger units to be of little importance. I am also aware of the demographic pressure on education in general and on higher education in particular. All this is important. But in the end, all of this retreats to the immortal form of Joseph Toots, 'I had to burn myself up to the money'. Honourable Riigikogu! Concern about the fate of the Estonian language prompted us to initiate a debate on the future of higher education in Estonian as a key national issue, and I am honoured to present this opening speech to you. After me, there will be business professionals, but I would like to look at the cultural philosophy of the language or, if you like, the poetical-philosophic perspective. When we talk about preserving culture through the ages, we could also look at it from the point of view of "eternity." We are used to talking about the Estonian language from a utilitarian point of view: why do we need this language, how can we use it? But I want to put the problem differently: What does the language want, what does it expect and demand from us? The Preamble to the Estonian Constitution requires all of us to ensure the preservation of culture throughout the ages, both for those in this hall and for all other citizens of our country. That Estonian is not only an integral part of Estonian culture, but the foundation of Estonian. I consider it necessary to formulate our responsibilities towards the Estonian language. 'Can't the tongue of this land in the wind of a song, as it ascends to heaven, seek eternity for itself? " Those beautiful words, unfortunately, have been dulled to annoyment, and we rarely think about what Kristjan Jaak Peterson wanted to say. At the beginning of the poem, the poet speaks to the people and to his mind, but the tongue comes from the earth and longs for heaven. The poet here fixes the vertical dimension of the tongue. For centuries, the language of the land was oral. It was literally the mother's language, which was learned at home enough to discuss domestic matters, but also the language of folklore. The tradition of Finnish folklore in the Baltic Sea is extremely rich. Many languages with a higher number of speakers than the Estonian language has only remained on the oral level, not to mention the languages that have already been extinct. Pastors on the one hand, and poets on the other hand gave the tongue a vertical dimension. It's a "heart tongue." This language not only expresses feelings but also teaches them. The next stage of language development relates to school education. It extends the language area in a horizontal dimension. The Estonian language can express all knowledge: in the fields of nature, history and science. This is the school's most important task in terms of language. The university is more than that. When the school teaches you to express pre-formed knowledge, the university opens the door to ignorance. In a way, science resembles poetry. We study and find ways to formulate things that are not previously stated in Estonian. My conviction is that it is very important that there are no white spots in higher education, which we can talk about in English, for example. Estonian higher education should be provided in Estonian at all stages. At this point, I have to make a few concessions. I'm not a fanatic or a dreamer. I have taught at several Estonian and foreign universities and know the real problems and difficulties that seem insurmountable. But difficulties are especially insurmountable when we dare not even think about them and formulate them. What I said about the Estonian language in higher education is an ideal image that we must not lose sight of. However, as a pragmatist, I very much like the admonition of Mikhail Saltykov-šedrin's character: 'Progress must be introduced if possible without bloodshed. " I do not want to say that no subject should be taught in English, for example. They could be, and it is even useful if the student can learn from different language sources, and it also develops his or her native language. I also do not want to say that universities should not have English-language curricula. However, in my opinion, no curriculum should be solely at the expense of the English-language curriculum. Thus, religion and poetry develop the language of our heart and soul, knowledge and sciences, but the language of our thinking. But that's not all. The third dimension of the language is neither vertical nor horizontal, but its deep dimension, or reflex. The subject of reflexion is not the world or the feelings, but the thinking itself. It's the domain of philosophy. 200 years ago, Kristjan Jaak Peterson highlighted the vertical dimension of the language. The tongue binds the earth to heaven. 20 years ago, one of Estonia's most original thinkers and writers, Madis Kõiv, came back to this topic. His essay bears the bilingual title 'Was ist des Esten Philosophie: Metaphilosophic Meditation'. All of this metaphilosophic meditation is linguistic and land-based. But unlike Peterson, the author makes an important point: it is the fatherland. Language is primarily the language of the country, and the language has its tasks, rights and urges. 'Language to be a language must say something. He must have something. And then, 'For philosophy is what the language speaks of. Because philosophy is what language says. With philosophy, the language has something to talk about and what to talk about, and thus be. ' Philosophy, however, is a general concept such as physics or medicine. We don't go to the dermatologist with our memory problems, of course, if we remember why we went to the doctor. So these are completely different areas of philosophy, too, and Estonian language needs them all. The Estonian language needs metaphysics in Estonian to reflect on and express the most general and profound aspects of nature. The Estonian language needs an analytical philosophy in Estonian that dissects the most basic and yet the most subtle links between language and thinking. Teach me how a word can become an act. The Estonian language needs a philosophy of society in Estonian, philosophy of history, etc. I must mention specifically the epistemology in Estonian, or the teaching of knowledge. All these fields can only be studied and taught at a university. And teaching it is the duty of the university to the Estonian language.. which ultimately results from the Constitution. The role of translations must be mentioned separately. Both in the Republic of Estonia between World Wars and after regaining independence, huge work has been done in the process of embezzling world culture and science. The translator is not just a language expert, he must know the subject and have the specific skills he should also acquire at the university. Translators are invisible heroes of the Estonian language. Like bees, they work tirelessly and often selflessly to broaden the boundaries of the Estonian language by collecting the values formulated around the world. There is another factor involved in translation. It is a two-way process in fiction: we translate foreign literature, but Estonian literature has also been translated relatively much into other languages of the world. For the rest of the world, the message in Estonian is first and foremost fictional. Unfortunately, in science and philosophy, traffic is one-way: rarely do we see that some scientific texts say: 'Translated from Estonian. ' I do not want to judge Estonian scientists or philosophers here, and I am perfectly aware that this is not just a problem of Estonian language. The scientist wants to publish his work in prestigious publications. And where he publishes his works, much depends on his position and possible financing. But it's still a little stuck in the sense of mission. During the deep stagnation, an Estonian journalist did not remember the exact wording of my father, but the point was this: "Does Estonian science make any sense? Shouldn't Estonian scientists publish their work in world languages? " My father replied that both were important, and he suggested that we follow the example of Hungarians who, on the one hand, publish their works in both German and English, on the other hand, are never ashamed to publish their works in Hungarian. They have been able to create a situation where representatives of the languages of other peoples are interested in and care for the translation of Hungarian publications. For my part, I dream that this would also apply to Estonian science and philosophy, so that in these areas too, 'Translated from Estonian' would be a hard trademark. Honourable Riigikogu! None of us, I hope, have a big deal. The opportunities for politicians and officials to develop the Estonian language are very limited. Language develops in the language of poets, scientists, philosophers, and other wise and witty people. What we can do, however, is create somewhat more favourable conditions for language development and eliminate some of the obstacles that we have created. I am thinking here, for example, of the standard that the university's curriculum may be in Estonian or other languages. This standard shall be interpreted in the sense of exclusion: either. This means that if the curriculum of one specialty is in another language, it must not be 'dubbed' in Estonian. It has to be changed. Universities must retain the right to create and complete an Estonian-language curriculum even if, for example, an English-language curriculum already exists. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U11	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U12	Thank you very much for your very interesting introductory speech, Madam waitress. The situation is that 40% of today's doctoral students at the University of Tartu do not speak Estonian, which was also seen at the December 1th session. What can be done in such a situation? Clearly, they write their research in English. We hope that they will address Estonia's topics there, but that does not necessarily happen. What is your personal position: should they be forced to teach Estonian language and culture when they come to Estonia for doctoral studies? Or how could we make these people with Estonian state money more our people in doctoral studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U13	Thank you. I have several doctoral students who are very ill at speaking Estonian. But when we discussed this issue in the group, I was specifically asked not to touch on doctoral studies because it is like Pandora's box. My position is very simple. I have a PhD student from India, but he doesn't write in Hindi, he writes in English. We have an English-language programme in doctoral studies, but we also have an Estonian-language programme in parallel. Estonians do not have to write in English unless they want it. At the moment, however, there are specialties in which a doctoral thesis in English is required. I can't say it's bad in itself. A person must know how, a scientist must also be able to express himself in English. However, in the fields of philology, for example, it is often the case that English is required, because in Estonia we do not find a qualified reviewer, and that is not good. My modest desire, or even the requirement, is that there must be no obstacles to writing a doctoral thesis in Estonian. It's a minimum program. But the people who come to Estonia to study are often very well motivated to learn Estonian as well. They're not coming here as an ex-Soviet republic. They come to Estonia and they know what it means. My experience with them is very positive. Many of them have found a very nice partner here and become Estonian patriots.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U14	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, an excellent presentation! My question and concern relate to the Estonian legal language, which has actually become extremely complex and difficult to read. Only lawyers, probably members of the Riigikogu and some other people will be able to read it soon, but I think we have chosen a very bad path. The legal language should also be clearly understood by most people. What do you think is the reason for this? Is this the peculiarity of the Estonian language, or are we going in the simplest way of resistance, translating these European Union directives one by one, or are we stuck in their jams, so that we cannot freely choose an Estonian equivalent, an Estonian word that would be more convenient, suitable and understandable for us? What is the reason? Is there a solution, or do we have to accept that the legal language is so complex and difficult to understand?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U16	Thank you. This is not just a problem with the legal language, it is a matter of all the languages. And that's a two-way thing. On the one hand, language must be well understood and as transparent as possible. On the other hand, we must not simplify the problem: if we put everything in a very simple rural language, there may be misunderstandings about some substantive issues. So these are the two Skylla and Charybdis we have to move between. There are, of course, objective reasons for a legal language. We know what legal space we're in. At the same time, on the one hand, the Estonian legal language is familiar with the legacy of the German bureaucratic language. Right now, maybe the heritage defence wants to keep it, because we're looking at it with a certain nostalgia. On the other hand, the Soviet Chancellorship is known. And now the documents of the third avalanche come from Brussels. Yes, we live in difficult times with language. As a living organism, the tongue has its own possibilities and its own speed, how it adapts all kinds of processes. There's a lot of documents coming up now, and we're not quite ready for it. But we must not surrender, we must deal with this. First we have to fix the problem and then look for ways to solve it. I don't know if I answered the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U17	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U18	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Of course, we can also ask each other in the costaars, but I will ask for the future and for the sake of the verbatim. Some time ago, I read the press release of the Council of Fatherland, which said that all university foreign teachers should learn the Estonian language, that this is a prerequisite for their access to work. What do you think of that? I remember when we said in 2017 that in order to reduce segregation in Estonia and reduce the ambiguities and tensions between different language groups, Estonian language education could start from kindergarten, then at least a man like Priit Sibula said that it could all be voluntary. Let's have a little comment on that!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U19	These two separate problems. The first relates to foreign teaching staff. They have two different statuses. Some are those who come for some short time, for example, to read a lecture course for a semester. These people, of course, should not learn Estonian. But for those who actually come here and have one of these, of course, there is no special status compared to the other teachers who teach. Well, let's imagine we have one traffic code for those who live here and another for those who, for example, come from England and are used to left-hand traffic. Just needs to change your habits a little bit. It is not easy, but from the University of Tartu I know positive examples that lecturers have learned the Estonian language. You also touched kindergartens. That's a whole other thing. However, when we have children coming from England or India, there is, of course, a similar situation. But you must have meant Russian children and Russian kindergartens. I think we need to switch to a single Estonian-language kindergarten education. And once again, I want to quote the same saying of Saltykov-shedrin: without bloodshed and like that, with the mind of a peasant. Yeah, it's gotta be done. Besides, we can see that certain changes have occurred in the Russian population. A colleague came from Moscow to Estonia about eight years ago, married a Russian woman here, but the children have Estonian names, go to Estonian kindergarten and the parent already attend Estonian school. But, yeah, these are real problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U20	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U21	Thank you. Mr. Lotman! You helped to vote down the proposal to turn the Estonian education system into Estonian from kindergarten, even though your party, together with the coalition partner EKRE, promised voters that you would do it during this election period. This is a very interesting metamorphosis, which is very difficult to explain in this context what you are talking about on the subject of higher education. Why should the focus be on higher education when it was thought that even upper secondary school was too late? Tell me, what numbers about your presentation are based on when you say that Estonian language in higher education is in crisis and higher education is in a foreign language or is becoming a foreign language?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U22	Thank you. I didn't use any numbers, and I'm not going to give you any examples right now. But there are examples of this, and there are several of them, that Estonian-language programmes are closed, and also in the areas that I specifically mentioned here. I think the people who closed them got my clue. As for the metamorphosis you referred to, there is no metamorphosis. You know that this draft law of your group was rushed because you wanted to get ahead of our group's proposal of the same nature. I wouldn't have minded if these two drafts were connected. That we had one position before, and now we have another, can't say. The position is the same all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U23	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good Mikhail! Of course, your presentation was very interesting and very multi-level. And all that certainly concerns the status of the Estonian language in our higher education is crucial. Today is one of those days when we must once again bow down to Estonian teachers. The Estonian education system has been recognised internationally once again, especially at the level of basic education. At the same time, would we be equally satisfied with the level of our higher education compared to the results of the PISA tests? I'm gonna ask you one of those interesting questions. This is a follow-up to Kristen Michal's question about the signal that the Isamaa Group has really sent out of here: knowledge coming to Estonia must only be in Estonian. Would Lotman's family have been able to do science in Estonia if he had been given such a condition and a requirement to learn the Estonian language first and then share his knowledge?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U25	Thank you. I will start from the beginning: I, too, want to bow down to our schools, which have indeed received a very high international rating. There was a long story about Estonian school at the BBC. As for Lotman, I must remind you that the Lotmans came to Estonia because Estonia was occupied. Am I grateful to the occupiers for this? No, it's not. Fortunately, Estonia is currently not occupied. So this question is, in my opinion, unfounded. Yes, they could not have come to Estonia, and if they could not have come to Estonia, they would not have been able to teach in Estonia either. So there are a number of such interesting consequences for me. Well, I would have been born, but for example, I wouldn't have married the woman I was married to, I wouldn't have had the children and grandchildren I had. Do I have to thank Stalin for that? No, you don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U26	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good Mikhail, my question comes from the field of national defence and from the Estonian language. It often seems to me that it is easier to express itself in the field of national defence in English, in an English-language room where one another is understood immediately, quickly and very well. The focus of the question is, in fact, how can we still improve the Estonian language as a whole in a much technical and abbreviation-rich field such as national defence, warfare. Indeed, in the field of education, we have taken major steps forward, but perhaps the diversity of the Estonian language has been overlooked.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U28	Thank you. This is also a serious problem, and here, too, we must approach with common sense. Let me give you an example. When it was decided in Quebec that only French was a national language, the airmen and dispatchers were required to communicate in French, which caused a great deal of confusion. And they gave it up. Let's just say in a war situation we're not going to translate, that's clear. If we have, say, partners from Poland and France, etc., we will not each speak our own people's language, we will all speak this common European language, which is bad English. A united Europe speaks this language. The English may have earned this, but this does not mean that we teach in Estonian military educational institutions in English. I think that even when we speak English, it is important to know what this or the other is in Estonian. Then we'll feel it differently than just some noise. The dogs can understand the sounds and know how to react, but we would go through the mind and maybe through the heart. Did I answer the question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U29	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U30	Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, my question relates to the previous question. You said that politicians and officials do not create Estonian, perhaps more like philosophers, poets, etc. My personal experience has been gained in the European Union, in the institutions of the European Union, so I know all the work done there by both synchronised interpreters and lawyers-linguists. I have always admired this work, and according to the circumstances, matches are quickly created and the Estonian language is constantly updated. It has actually become somewhat impertinently unnoticed here in Estonia. There has also been enough pressure from our own Estonian people that perhaps not all these texts should have been translated into Estonian by lawyers-linguists. What's your attitude? How do you feel? For example, simultaneous interpreters have translated the word 'rhepapp'. How about the big work that lawyers-linguists, these people out there in Brussels, Luxembourg or Strasbourg?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U31	Thank you. That's why I dedicated a special section to translators. Look, if there's something missing in the translation, it's a translator first and foremost. And they also have to have a big bow. I am not quite familiar with the way in which this is being translated in Brussels. When I was there once, it was quite comforting. Of course, the situation was quite difficult at the time: the performer was, I don't remember exactly, perhaps Albanian and it was translated into Estonian, but I didn't understand it. I put a second earpiece in an English translation, and then I realized that he was actually translating from English. But a synchronised translator, it's a terrible job. I've translated once. I sat all day, I was all wet, and I thought never again. It's creative work. But indeed, thanks to translators the language is evolving. Because the sphere, either in Brussels or anywhere in the diplomatic community, can be anything, new concepts that do not yet have an Estonian equivalent are used... Translation is a creative process, but not just creative. There must be a very good knowledge of legal matters, international law, etc. So the work of translators is very important. But what was the question? Do I recognize them? Very!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U32	I'm sorry, but one last question for the waitress. Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U33	Thank you. Good Mikhail! I would like to begin by thanking you for this presentation, which is very important and concerns the future of higher education in Estonian. Just as everything has content and form, the language also has content and form relevant to higher education. As we know about the content of the introduction has been made, it is very good and very good. But as for the uniform, we see it out every day. We see the Circle K gas stations, we see the Mall of Tallinn store. What we know is that we have a high school that sounds like a public limited company called Lamb. After all, this new name is being spread more and more, or pronounced, 'taltseh'. How do you feel about the fact that in the Estonian media I stress, in the Estonian media, such juniperhood is increasingly being promoted, and also in the case of the name of the higher education institution, such as TalTech, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U34	This is a concrete example I do not want to comment on. I am a university lecturer myself, and I have the principle that I do not criticise or comment on decisions made by other institutions. Let's just say it's problematic. It was designed to sound good in English. We know that this poses major problems in this educational establishment itself. But as you understand my report, I don't take it so well. It must be said that we must not underestimate the power of the language. There's gonna be some kind of extraterrestrial word coming up, they're called linguistic barbarisms, and then the language adapts them, and it's kind of embracing them. For example, the Estonian word 'keefir'. When I was little, it was pronounced "Kephire." The Estonian language digested it, and now it is a real Estonian word. The tongue either accepts something or spits it out. As a philologist, I'm still a Russian philologist first and foremost. During Peter I so many German and Dutch words came into Russian that Peter himself began to protest and said that there were so many foreign words, the što sensu varraži ne možno, that sense could not be reached. He didn't have a Russian word for 'think', he said sense. But then it came up. Of course, I don't take kindly to the language being debauched.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U35	Thank you. I am very sorry to my colleagues, but the time for questions and answers has unfortunately passed. Thank you to the waitress for a meaningful presentation and interesting answers. Let's keep going. The next waitress is the co-founder and manager of Cleveron AS Arno Kütt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U36	Hello, honourable Riigikogu. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I've been in business for 28 years. I've tried to hold it as much as I can in Viljandi. My first contact with higher education is that I am a member of the Advisory Board of Viljandi Culture Academy. This year, we opened a bachelor's degree in robotics in Viljandi in cooperation with Mainor's private university. I have two concerns that I want to talk about here today. One is the financing of higher education and the other concerns higher education and regional policy. It has always been very important for Cleveron to cooperate with higher education institutions. Synergies arise in the joint work of a technology company and a university of higher education. We wanted us to be able to offer higher education in Viljandi. We have an internship base and we discussed our plan with both TalTech and the University of Tartu. We were prepared to partially compensate for the costs of training outside Tallinn or Tartu. But these higher education institutions were not prepared to come outside Tallinn or Tartu, and so we finally reached an agreement with Mainor. As we know, Mainor is a private school, and in order to get students there, Cleveron paid for the study, we paid for their stays, catering, and we also offered students 400 euros per month scholarships. Not only did our company pay it off, but we also paid income tax on all these things. If we had paid this money directly to the student, we would have paid a special discount. If we had structured through different foundations, then we might have been able to set aside taxes somehow, but I don't think it would have been a reasonable course of action. Private initiatives are currently discriminated against in higher education. If we take private schools, private secondary schools receive public support. Private research institutions receive public funding in the same way. But in the case of higher education institutions, the situation is unequal. Quality requirements for public and private higher education institutions are the same, but the funding is quite different. This situation is not conducive to a private initiative to higher education, which would like to come into an area where public institutions with fixed funding are operating, which attract students with free study places, while a high-quality private university cannot be sure that it will receive the same funding. When charging tuition fees, it is virtually impossible to compete with providers of free education. This seems particularly unfair to me as a taxpayer. Our company also pays income tax or special tax in addition to paying for our studies and everything else. But let us see how, for example, doctors train for taxpayers' money: they are also taught Finnish and young doctors go to work in Finland. Foreign students come to Estonia to study, study in English and then most of them leave Estonia. This shows that our private higher education institutions have been treated unfairly. I also propose a solution. Free Estonian-language higher education is a political decision. This can also be implemented in a different way: in a way that money moves not through schools, but through students. All studies could be paid at both state and private universities, the student could choose what school he wants to go to, it would be a public school or a private school, and the student can take student loans for this for three or five years. And when a student finishes school, stays in Estonia for three or five years or no matter how long, he/she will contribute to the Estonian economy and his/her student loan can be cancelled. And he's got a free education. However, if you continue to go to Finland on a higher salary as a doctor, it is justified that your student loan will not be written off. Which is probably not too bad if you're in another country on a higher salary. Perhaps this solution should not be used in all areas of study, curricula, but it would certainly justify itself in areas where there is a high demand in the labour market. Perhaps it is in the field of information technology that we should start. So much funding. Another issue that is worrying is the impact of higher education on the region. We take Viljandi: If Viljandi's sharp pencils complete the gymnasium, what will they do? Go to Tartu or Tallinn for higher education. It's a place to live, a job, often a life partner. The fact that young people come back is more of an exception. This is balanced when higher education is offered on the ground. There's a cultural academy in Viljandi right now. From other counties, students come to Viljandi to study, they associate themselves with Viljandi, and they often live there. And it's balanced. But let's see what's been happening in the last year around the local colleges, including Viljandi Culture Academy! It has been said for a year that EUR 200000 is missing, and no one knows what future awaits the cultural academy. On the one hand, it is very good that the state has brought a thousand jobs out of Tallinn. 60 or 70 jobs have been created in Viljandi. However, if this EUR 200000 is not found to enable the cultural academy to continue, 700 students from Viljandi will disappear, plus one hundred jobs related to this school. And this is a disaster for Viljandi. Of course, from the perspective of the University of Tartu, and according to Excel's tables, it is more sustainable to put all students together in a single campus, and so the results are the best in the world. But if we want to have a regional political influence in mind, we must consider that it is more expensive to teach away from Tallinn and Tartu. I know it would also be easier for Cleveron to operate outside Tallinn rather than in Viljandi. I also propose one solution here: regional colleges could be financed not from the budget line of the Ministry of Education, rather using regional policy funds. The part by which teaching in regional colleges is more expensive could be financed from regional resources. It was very good to take these thousands of jobs out to other counties. In Viljandi county, 3.5% of Estonian residents live and we have a legitimate expectation that 3.5% of state universities will be located in Viljandi. This does not, of course, mean creating any new schools, but keeping existing universities and colleges, perhaps even expanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U37	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I was very pleased to hear your support for regional colleges. Education really must have a regional dimension for Estonia, and Pärnu feels the same way as Viljandi does. But my question is that you suggested giving higher education money to a student so he could choose a school and then move on with that money. But does the student have enough knowledge to choose? It is known that higher education is expected for 10 and 30 years, and these forecasts are based on a large amount of knowledge. They are made by the most sharp pencils in universities, and I use the same phrase, but students sometimes enter even three, four, or five specialties and exchange them during their own studio. Could putting higher education money in the hands of a student lead to a better outcome?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U39	Thank you. This would eliminate the current unfair competition. We are taking the IT field, where there is a major shortage of labour. Programming and robotics curriculum are offered by public schools and in addition to it, a private school offers. A student can study at a state school free of charge, but at a private university he has to pay for it. That makes competition unfair. That would be my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U40	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question. You started by communicating with the Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu. How far did you get, and what were the obstacles? Why did public universities decide not to start a curriculum with a private company?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U42	I spoke to the Rectors of both schools, and then in Tartu the Rector was lost in Volli Kalm. Our wish was for this study to take place in Viljandi. We have an internship base there, and we wanted there to be a study, theory and practice in one place, going hand in hand. Neither school was ready to collect lessons from Tallinn. We might have come to an agreement on a common curriculum, but they still suggested that you send the students back to us and then come back. But that wouldn't solve the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U43	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When I listened to your presentation, I understood one point so that, in principle, you raised the question in this Chamber whether the university should decide to run a college or whether it should actually be the state ministries, politicians, rather than the university. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U45	Thank you. That's my opinion, but maybe it can't just be for the university or just for the state to decide. This should be seen together, taking into account regional policy implications. If there is no higher education in the region or county, it is clear that this region is deteriorating because young people go outside to study. No kids coming in. I do see that there should be a complex approach here. And that could also be the responsibility of national universities, either, but at least a matter of heart.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U46	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U47	Thank you. Mr Hunter, you said that free higher education is a political decision, and you yourself proposed a number of political decisions that you believe should be taken. Here's my question. First of all, however, I would like to comment that the cost of education is never a variable cost. All money can never accompany a student or a student. In addition, the State has other considerations in different disciplines. Your argument that, for example, in the case of IT, competition is not fair is, of course, very understandable. This really isn't fair. But why is this complicated scheme you're offering still a better political decision than tuition?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U48	My solution now is that we have a political decision that higher education in Estonian is free of charge. Of course, paid higher education would also be suitable. And who cannot pay themselves, it can apply for grants and scholarships.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U49	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U50	Good President! Good speaker, thank you for raising the issue of regional higher education. This certainly concerns not only Viljandi, but also Pärnu and Ida-Virumaa, Haapsalu and Saaremaa. The representatives of all these regions also sit here in this Chamber. Unfortunately, the separate support of colleges from the regional amounts that you mentioned has not been approved so far, nor has it been approved as a budgetary proposal. How do you plan to proceed with your work in Viljandi? Do you see a longer perspective on your curriculum? And what do you expect from members of the Riigikogu and other target groups? How can we jointly draw attention to the importance of regional higher education? I really want to point out that we really must not give up on quality. The teaching given in Viljandi, Narva or Pärnu must be as good and, in fact, a little better than in Tallinn or in Tartu, the region is always viewed with suspicion that you are actually working there. What do you plan to do, and what do you expect others to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U51	Thank you. We plan to move forward so that we, in cooperation with Mainor, are now doing a study programme. We really expect the funding to be equal, or all the training will be subject to a fee. In that case, we could also compete with national higher education institutions. The foundations should be equal, not so that one can teach for free and the other school must ask for money. Such a thing is not viable in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U52	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I certainly agree with you that the Viljandi Culture Academy is a phenomenon of its own, and a very positive phenomenon. I have already felt this way as mayor of Tartu, and I have been a great supporter of the people who created it. There was an idea in your presentation: you stated that the question has been raised for a year, that there will be no EUR 2 000 or more, so that the studies in Viljandi can continue. This seems particularly ridiculous to me as a member of the Riigikogu. I'm also looking behind you right now, where the native Viljandi person sits. When you think about how much roof money we've had and how much money there is in the state budget, you still can't find $200,000 to keep this super-positive institution safe. Can you possibly open up why it is that politicians cannot make the right decisions? The university is institutionally independent.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U54	Thank you. That's one of the reasons I'm here. I, too, have not understood how it has not been possible to find this money. Indeed, the EUR 200000 around which has been twisted for a year is not much money on the country's scale compared to the loss that Viljandi may suffer if 700 students plus 100 workers are lost there. I don't have that answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U55	Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U56	Thank you. Good waitress! When listening to your presentation and your previous presentation as a whole, it was clear that the decline in the use of the Estonian language and the metropolitanisation are two parts of the same problem. Doesn't this problem start from the level of village and rural municipality to the closure of village schools and the extinction of rural areas? How could the state and private operators, hand in hand, alleviate this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U57	Thank you. It's actually a global problem. It is not quite possible to go the other way around, but if we have regional policy, I believe that maintaining higher education in counties is one of the most effective measures to help county cities remain centres of attraction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U58	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U59	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress, thank you for your very interesting presentation. You are talking about an unprecedented case in the Republic of Estonia. It is very nice that there are several representatives of Pärnu in this hall. Pärnu College also cooperated with the local government. Maybe you need to talk more to the town of Viljandi, maybe they can come to help. But in order to get a little more involved with your presentation on today's subject, I'm going to ask you this. Maybe I didn't notice, but is this study that is taking place in your company in Estonian? And do you also have foreign students who need to learn Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U60	Thank you. Our curriculum is the development of robotics software, it is in Estonian. We have 20 students, everything is from Estonia and all the training takes place in Viljandi.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U61	Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U62	First of all, thank you to the waitress for this theme! It's extremely important. My question misses a little bit of Estonian. You spoke here about free studies at a state university and paid studies at a private university. And it was also said that there was a great need for specialists. I ask this question: why should a student choose a private university and not a free state university?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U63	Thank you. The question now is that if a young person can study for free, he will go and study for free. But he doesn't know which school is better. It is very difficult for a private university to compete. If competition were fair, if both institutions of higher education could study free of charge or both were to be paid for, the student would start to consider more and explore what is offered in one school or what is offered in another. I think that this would increase, in addition to competition and also the level of national universities, if competition were more intense.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U64	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U65	Thank you. I will start with the topic of university autonomy, which I also marked on my previous question. Indeed, it is a problem that universities are free to open study programmes, but for some reason they are not opened in regional colleges. If there is a great competition for one study place, even six people, then this study could be expanded, but the university still decides to do so at the mother university, not at college. But my question to you comes in the context of the 'new world'. As an entrepreneur, what do you think of these nano- and micro-degrees? In higher education, could we move in the direction that we are actually seeing in the United States: it is offered to have basic education, graduating with a bachelor's degree, but then they go around the world and acquire small parts of degrees to finally acquire a specific skill?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U66	Thank you. I can give you my personal opinion on that. We have 230 people in Cleveron, about 70% have higher education. I myself am in favour of such a system that the Bachelor's degree is first acquired in three years, then a few years of work is done to understand what has to be dealt with in the first place and then to go to the master's office. It would be my vision, my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U67	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U68	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, first of all, I would like to say thank you very much for this presentation, but also for everything you have done in Viljandi and what you will do in the future. Thank you very much. It has been a pleasure to hear your thoughts. In your presentation, you indicated that you were involved with the University of Tartu Viljandi Culture Academy, especially in the field of training. Years ago, when the head of the cultural academy was elected, the person practically did not speak Estonian at all. But it is, I emphasize, a national culture and a tradition-teaching college. The deputy speaker sitting behind you isn't clear of that guilt either, he was one of the pickers. It is possible that a very good person was chosen, but now there is a situation where the same manager still does not speak Estonian and is probably going to negotiate with the interpreter at the University of Tartu. Does the fact that the head of such an institution of higher education does not speak Estonian interfere with the work of the school?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U69	Thank you. I'm sure that doesn't help. Especially in Viljandi, the knowledge of Estonian would certainly be useful. At the same time, I say that we have already been able to communicate to a certain extent in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U70	Thank you, honourable waitress, for your presentation and your answer to the questions. No further questions for you. Let's keep going. Please waitress Sigrid Västra, former head of the Estonian Student Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U71	Honourable Riigikogu! Good listeners! In recent years, politicians, lecturers and scientists have spoken about the marginalisation of the Estonian language in higher education. The debate has been on the agenda in society on a permanent basis, but there are not enough real steps to improve the situation. The 2013 higher education reform provided for a single language of study for multilingual curricula, which, given our demographic situation and the trend towards internationalisation of higher education, encouraged universities to decide in favour of English-language curricula. This has led to an increasing decline in the proportion of Estonian-language curricula, especially in Master's degree. We've been trying to map the current situation. On the screen, you will see general trends in the language of higher education. The statistical overview of general trends in Estonian higher education prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research in 2018 clearly highlights the increase in the share of English-language curricula, especially in the second degree. While only a few percent of students at first and second level studied in English in 2006, 8% of students at first level studied in English in 2017 and 24% of students at second level. Problem areas and solutions, point 1. There are several problems, and I will bring out some of them, along with possible options. First of all, I ask how to find a balance between internationalisation and maintaining high-quality Estonian-language learning. So far, there is no clarity in the national development plans. The Lifelong Learning Strategy until 2020 and the Higher Education Programme for 2019 has not defined the role of Estonian language as a language of higher education. The higher education programme points out that it is important to contribute to the internationalisation of higher education and to improving the quality of Estonian higher education, but there is no definition of the extent to which the language of instruction is Estonian. The Estonian language development plan also points out that there are no criteria for defining the language of higher education. In order to preserve our nation, culture and language, and to ensure that the student can obtain high-quality higher education regardless of the choice of his/her speciality in at least the first and second degree in Estonian, I propose as one of the options to define the maximum percentage of English-language education in the national higher education strategy papers. Of course, it is important to analyse in advance the minimum share of Estonian-language learning required to ensure high quality Estonian-language higher education. Issues and solutions, Section 2. The next item relates to the weaknesses of the 2013 higher education reform in the language of instruction. Firstly, at the time, it was stipulated that, in the case of multilingual curricula in the past, higher education institutions had to define a single language of study. And secondly, this led the higher education institutions in many cases to opt for English-language curricula. So today we are in a state of increasing numbers of English-language study programmes, especially in Master's degree. I am currently studying at the University of Tartu in the final course of a Master's degree in the field of social sciences, and only three Estonians study in my course. Our curriculum cannot be studied in Estonian. There are no Estonian-speaking students among the students of the first year of the same curriculum. In addition to social sciences, there is a situation where the curriculum is in English only, also in the field of information technology. In these areas, this problem is general in Estonian higher education institutions. Thus, we are in a situation where we take the student's choice to continue his or her education in Estonian and this, as I have already said, puts the preservation of the Estonian nation, culture and language at risk in the long term. The marginalisation of higher education in Estonian is moving in a direction that is not justified in any way. I propose that the law be amended so that the same curriculum is allowed in two or more languages and that, in addition to determining the maximum percentage of English-language curricula, the funding for higher education from the state budget should be guaranteed to 1.5%, which ensures the availability of free Estonian-language learning. Issues and solutions, Section 3. The next problem is the underfunding of higher education, which also directs higher education schools to open more and more English language curricula. As a result of the reduction in higher education funding, higher education institutions consider increasing the volume of English-language curricula to be an important tool to cover funding gaps. Here I propose that, as the sustainability of higher education in Estonian is closely linked to permanent state funding, it is essential to analyse the issue of duplication of curricula and possible impacts when deciding on funding. However, these effects have not yet been assessed. This year's audit of the National Audit Office did not concern this aspect either. Issues and solutions, Section 4. As a problem, I would also like to mention the lack of written language skills of Estonian-speaking freshmen. The 2010 study entitled Level of proficiency of Estonian language among students of high schools pointed out that the language knowledge of students is limited. The knowledge of Estonian written language and functional language skills were good or close to it, 21% were unsatisfied and 19% were unsatisfactory. The re-study carried out in 2015 showed that the level of functional language proficiency has not changed since 2010. The average result was the same, despite the fact that in 2012 the new Estonian language examination system was applied. It can't go on like this. One possible solution is that for all first-level curricula, a minimum of six ECTS should be determined. For example, the first-year students of the School of Performing Arts study Estonian throughout the first year of study, including both written language, language history and terminology. Last but not least, I note too little Estonian language education for foreign students. Fortunately, concrete steps have already been taken to address this problem. In fact, the administrative agreements concluded between universities and the state this year included a point which obliges all English-language curricula of at least two years' duration, with the exception of joint curricula with foreign universities, to ensure the study of Estonian language and culture in six ECTS volumes. But in my opinion, that is not enough. I suggest that the "Estonian Language and Culture" course, which is nationally prescribed, would be a minimum of 12 ECTS for foreign students studying in inpatient studies. Why at least 12 ECTS? Both my experience of studying abroad and the experience of other students show that intensive language learning of six ECTS volumes does not actually guarantee even A1 levels. 12 In addition to what you have learned in the classroom, the volume of the ECTS could include practical language learning in a company or organisation. It could also be integrated into the traineeship system. The aim should be much more than a low A1 level, especially in view of the fact that quite a significant proportion of foreign students wish to find work in Estonia after their studies. Unfortunately, the language barrier is just becoming an obstacle. Another possible solution would be the example of Sweden. The country offers a full year of free, intensive language learning for those who wish to study in Swedish. I believe that the same system could be implemented by us. The number of foreign students studying in Estonian would probably increase. When speaking about the choice of learning in Estonian and English among students, there are no studies on preferences, but on the basis of conversations with students, I can say that the desire for higher education in Estonian is great. Unfortunately, there are often no options for this, especially in master's studies. Ask the students! Don't just check their knowledge in tests and exams! Involve them in studies and discussions! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U72	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress Sigrid Västra! You said almost the last sentence that the demand to study in Estonian at a higher education institution is high, but there are no statistics on it. However, would you explain this point a little bit more precisely so that you can understand which specialties and universities we are talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U74	Thank you for this question. To be honest, I must draw on my own experience. Discussions have taken place in my field of study, in the field of social sciences at the University of Tartu. For example, students of a master's degree in state sciences cannot continue education in Estonian on the curriculum of comparative politics. This is one example. I have studied from the students whether they would actually have chosen to study in Estonian, and I have received the answer 'yes' in most cases. I would not be raising what could happen at Tallinn University, Tallinn University of Technology, Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre or other higher education institutions in Estonia. That's my example, it's like my story.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U75	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker, I thank you very much for a very constructive, very concrete presentation, which offers solutions. I think there really is a problem. Education also means that in addition to acquiring a specialty, a person can speak well in his or her own language, form full sentences, and also write well. Your proposals were very constructive. But I'm asking your opinion. Having also been a lecturer for decades and seen this progress, it seems to me that the learning process has changed a great deal. Not only by special education in Estonian, but in the course of the study process it is increasingly possible to communicate with students and the exams have changed. There were oral hearings in the old days, and now there's only a birdie here, a birdie there. Actually, we don't know who's got the knowledge. I also had to teach the students how to make full sentences. Do you have the same impression?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U77	Thank you for this question. In the light of my experience, I can say that the level at the master's level is certainly significantly better if we look at the overall picture. Well, that makes sense. But I have come up with a question about the level of students studying in English, even my own level in Estonian. If I can make sentences in English, for example, in a master's thesis, it is difficult to appreciate how I can do it in Estonian. However, I consider it important that I can explain the principles and aims of my work in Estonian, but I have to admit that I have sometimes been entangled in terminology in doing so. As for the level at the bachelor level, we have some numbers to show for it. The subject is important. I proposed that Estonian language studies should at least be compulsory in the first year of the Bachelor's degree. We also see from the exam results at the end of the upper secondary school that the level is not what the national target is. The problem has to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U78	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U79	Good President! Good performer, I take this opportunity to congratulate you as a student of the University of Tartu in the first year of the second year of the Estonian University. I also congratulate all the alumni of the University of Tartu who are in this hall. Your proposals were entirely relevant. Do you intend to make these proposals in addition to the Chamber of the Riigikogu also at the University of Tartu, address the leaders of the University of Tartu, the leaders of your field, the Senate of the Council of the University of Tartu? All the more so since the University of Tartu, as we have read in the media, the language requirements are now being discussed, as I understand it, quite tempestuously.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U80	Thank you for your question and thank you for your congratulations. Yes, I have already said this at the level of the Institute, as a member of the Council, I have the right to have a say. I know that our good student representatives at the University of Tartu will speak at all levels of study on these subjects. Reading these discussion materials shows that students are really fighting for the right thing. In addition to language requirements, this also concerns funding for higher education institutions and the issue of free learning versus paid education. These are very heated debates. I will certainly continue to contribute with advice and strength, at least at university level.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U81	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U82	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you very much for this presentation. I understand that you are in favour of a greater possibility of higher education in Estonian. I guess that's the title of our topic today. But my question is that you are talking about the possibility of studying in Estonian at both Bachelor and Master level. As I understand it, you want every specialty to have the opportunity to defend the master's degree in Estonian, i.e. to study in Estonian. But in recent times I have heard discussions even on the subject that the doctoral thesis, which is protected in Estonia, could be in Estonian. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U83	I thank you for this very important question. I know that either in 2006 or in 2007 somewhere in the region, the requirement that doctoral studies be in Estonian was lost, that the doctoral degree should be protected in Estonian. In my institute, this education has been in English since 2008 and I also know the important reasons why it is difficult to keep a doctoral programme in Estonian. It is not just about prestige; it is still about the university's international competitiveness. For example, we also have peer reviewers from abroad, and the university has said that if this were done in Estonian, if you chose pre-reviewers or reviewers from other Estonian institutions of higher education, this would mean stepping back a step. I believe that doctoral studies are a completely separate subject for discussion. There are bottlenecks that are difficult to solve. I certainly do not think that we should only continue with English doctoral studies. I know that there have already been discussions about the fact that at least a summary of the work at the University of Tartu is about 2,000 characters in Estonian. But it is certainly important to doctoral students that when they choose an academic career, they receive recognition internationally. The number of articles published will depend on this, etc. If they do their work in Estonian, the opportunities are not so great. However, I know that, for example, in the field of medical science, articles are written in both Estonian and English. And maintaining doctoral studies in Estonian is still important. Because it carries on our national culture and language.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U84	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Indeed, a very thorough and good report from you on this matter! I have a question about the previous one. We know the well-known truth that Estonian-language education guarantees education in Estonian. At the same time, history has shown that in some cases foreign language learning has, after all, provided education in Estonian. What is the theoretical possibility of this at all? That education can guarantee education in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U86	Thank you for this question. My first thought immediately moved towards the study materials. After all, we have published materials in various fields in English considerably more than in Estonian. However, I am in favour of translating these materials into Estonian. But English or any foreign language education values our entire higher education space in the context of internationalisation. Learning exchanges, foreign students, the whole ideabook is actually very positive, enriching our students' world view and their knowledge of other cultures. I believe that it is possible to study in Estonian and English or other foreign languages together with the Estonian language. But it seems to me that at some point we need to set up long-term numbers, make some kind of rules so that one day we will not be in a situation where there is already Sweden or Holland, where there is too much English-language learning. And as I pointed out, it could be a moment today. We are in a situation where access to higher education in Estonian is limited in some areas of study. And it shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U87	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U88	Austet President! Good waitress! In your presentation, you highlighted the concern that our native language skills of our own Estonian young people are in a declining trend. Do you support the proposal that the number of lessons in Estonian language and Estonian literature could be increased in general education schools, such as upper secondary schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U89	Thank you for this question. However, studies have shown that this level has remained the same. When I recall my high school, I had a very good teacher of literature and Estonian, thanks to whom, I believe, my language level is very good. But this is a difficult place to decide. We must take into account that we have also had discussions about this, and that young people do not have too much pressure in upper secondary school. The number of hours per week so far must take into account how much knowledge they need to learn, how many subjects are actually taught at school. You can't keep putting on obligations all the time. So this has to come at the expense of something. However, if the state prioritises improving our young Estonian language and functional reading skills, I believe that the number of hours in upper secondary school can be increased. But, yeah, it should come from something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U90	Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U91	Hello, good waitress. Thank you for your pleasant and very thorough speech, as well as for your proposals. In one of your responses, you said that you would get stuck in terminology if you translated yourself from Estonian into another language or vice versa. Can you tell me if the reason for this is because I'm now suggesting something that exact terms do not exist and they need to be invented locally? I don't think the reason is because you just don't remember them. What can be an obstacle?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U92	Thank you for this question. My experience is that I also completed half of my undergraduate studies in English, wrote a Bachelor's thesis in English, and now I study in English. When we write the academic text, we inevitably acquire, in addition to terminology, the whole way of writing sentences. And I'd rather get caught up in how to convey the idea in Estonian in the same way. Languages are different, one can't translate a word or phrase or metaphor to one, and that's where it gets stuck. On the terminology side, I must commend that our universities have contributed very much to the terminology base and there are very many terms. It's just, as I mentioned earlier, the subject of master's thesis, passing on thought in Estonian, it's been difficult for me. But it's getting better by rehearsing it over and over again, of course. I don't know if I answered your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U93	Yes, you answered. But maybe a little more on the same subject. Have these terms been sufficiently translated, and is this basis sufficient?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U94	Thank you. Üllar Saaremäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U95	If I were to say that there are enough, I would do myself and the other students a disservice. I'm sure this base can be upgraded on a rolling basis. It also depends on the subject on which one writes the final work or the project, which subjects are dealt with. The topics are increasingly emerging in our rapidly changing world, and so are terminology.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U96	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. Let's keep going. Today's last waitress is the winner of the research prize of the Republic of Estonia, Professor of Native Language Studies Martin Ehala of the University of Tartu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U97	Dear Riigikogu! I'll start with a brief overview, and the main part of my report is what to do. A brief description of the situation is that the "Estonian language development strategy" and the "Estonian language development plan" adopted since 2004 have drawn a certain red line for establishing the relationship between higher education in Estonian and higher education in foreign languages. It is precisely that no field of study must become entirely English. This red line has already been crossed because there are such groups of curriculums that do not have any Estonian-language curriculum. There's ten of them now. When you look at the language in which the students study, the previous speaker showed a very good schedule from the statistical overview made by Rena Selliov, you can see that on average 26% of Master's students study in English, the rest in Estonian. But it is very different from one specialty to another, for example, 70% of social science students study in English and 30% in Estonian, with 70% of it being quite a large proportion of Estonian-born students. So in fact, even the majority of students from Estonia study social sciences in English. In some other areas, such as teacher training, the share of the English language curriculum is, of course, low, only 9%. All the rest of the specialties are somewhere between 70% and 9%. These processes, as curricula and areas of study gradually become English-language and as the number of students studying in English increases in different fields and at different speeds, have taken place unnoticed. Only last year, when these two studies came at the request of the Ministry of Education, was the first picture of what had taken place in five years. This growth has been quite rapid. This growth has been so rapid that it has been worrying about the future of higher education in Estonian. Indeed, if we continue a little bit further on the way this English-languageization takes place, there are basically economic reasons. There may also be world-viewed reasons why English-language schemes are better, but in general it is still that if some Estonian-language curriculum reduces the number of Estonian students below the critical limit and this curriculum can no longer be maintained, there are basically two alternatives: do we stop teaching this speciality in Estonia at all or make the curriculum English-language. We also hope to get more foreign students and Estonian students to increase the number of students and to continue teaching this specialty. Now that this happens, these reasonings are mostly understandable to everyone, the answer is mostly clear: of course, we would rather continue teaching than closing down this speciality. And there's a new English curriculum. The more English-language curricula are created at the expense of converting or disappearing Estonian-language curricula, the greater the choice of English-language higher education in Estonia. The bigger these options are, the more students from Estonia will learn on English-language schemes. This means that there will be fewer students on Estonian-language curricula, which will lead to some of the following curricula getting into difficulty in these same economic difficulties, and then it will be decided that in order to continue education, we will make it English. This is how this whole process deepens step by step. And if it gets worse in such a step-by-step way, the consequence is that if the current principle that we are trying to keep these areas of study in Estonian, so that they do not become entirely English, it is clear first that, as long as one of the ten curricula in the field of study is still in Estonian, the border has not been crossed, even though 90% of the study has already become English. Another tendency is that, in fact, curricula groups have already gradually started to become English-speaking, which shows that if we continue with the same system of systems, the way in which our higher education in English and Estonian has been linked to each other at the university, it is only a matter of time before higher education in Estonian is lost. Whether it happens in 5, 10 or 15 years, I don't know how to predict it to you. Well, that depends on a lot of things. But the tendency to increase English language learning due to the small size of the Estonian student body for economic reasons is entirely there. Other scientists agree with me on this, including those who see English-language learning as inevitable, though perhaps not a pleasant inevitability, but still as a tendency that cannot be saved. How can we cope with this situation? There's basically two roads. A large part of the university's so-called language policy can and must be done by universities within themselves, through the organisation of their work and the organisation of their studies. It may not be worth legitimising at national level. However, there is also a part, perhaps some principles that may depend quite a bit on when we talk about some kind of red lines or finding some sort of balance. It may be reasonable to regulate this balance by law and leave the language policy of universities to the university itself. Before I go to concrete solutions, I would like to say that the expansion of English language learning, which is the result of the rapid internationalisation of this problem, has been quite clearly recognised elsewhere in Europe. This is not some existential fear of our little Estonia that does not correspond to reality. Potential adverse aspects of this development have also been recognised elsewhere. The Nordic Council of Ministers working group has been working for four or five years to look at the best practices in universities to ensure that local languages, national languages and English are in some sustainable balance in higher education, not that English gradually, quietly disrupts higher education in the national language. The group has adopted 11 recommendations on the language policy of the university. Yesterday's Postimees also has a brief overview of them. Just last month, the League of European Research Universities (LERU), which includes 26 top universities, adopted a document on the language policy of the University of Cambridge, Oxford, Sorbonne, Lausanne, University of Helsinki, including Uppsala. Since LERU is well-wide and differs from the so-called Nordic universities, its recommendations are such a meta-level or higher level of recommendations, such as recommendations from universities to deal with it and to set their priorities. But they don't say very specific principles. However, this is a rather contextual issue, in different countries and in different regions language policy can be quite different. However, both documents, both those of the Nordic Council of Ministers and those of the European University of Science League, point out that rapid internationalisation has created a certain alienation between universities and society. Universities work as in the global arena, they look outwards and have somehow forgotten that they should still work for the good of the local society. In fact, they work, no matter where they're oriented. To avoid such alienation, we need to find a working university language policy that balances English and national language learning. Now, as the last legislative initiative, a draft law has been presented in the Netherlands, I do not know how far they will be by adopting it, which obliges universities to develop the Dutch language skills of foreign students and limits the possibilities of opening English-language curricula. This development has taken place in the Netherlands and shows that the problem has actually been recognised. It is not just our problem, it is not just an idea or a fantasy. That's the real problem. What are the solutions? This solution, which I am offering here, is quite largely based on the Nordic solution. After all, our context is largely similar, precisely because these are relatively small societies on a global scale, which have a very strong own language, national science and education, and internationalisation is changing the lines of power here. This is demonstrated by the development of our Estonia, and the development of the Nordic countries also shows that if we hold higher education in English and Estonian in two different pots, i.e. we have only English-language curricula and only Estonian-language curricula, then it is simply that the curricula move slowly from one pot to another. The English-language pot has no Estonian at all, while the group of Estonian-language curricula is constantly developing towards English at all times. This is based on the Language Act, which says that the Estonian language curriculum is where 60% of the study is in Estonian. Therefore, quite a part of the foreign language can be introduced into Estonian-language curricula, while no one tends to bring in the Estonian-language section, because how can it be done if people who do not speak Estonian are also studying there. There is, in principle, a path that ensures the preservation of the Estonian language in all disciplines and in all higher education, although not absolute and not dominant, but at least to the extent that it ensures the sustainability of the Estonian-language'research and education space', that we can continue to function in all fields in Estonian. Now, about this obstacle, and the previous speaker was already talking about why education in English is growing. We have that the curriculum can be either in Estonian or in English. The bilingual curricula were abolished and turned into English as soon as this legislative amendment came into effect. The solution to this could still be that we should remove this restriction and introduce a different restriction. This different limitation should, for example, be that at least 60% of the Bachelor's degree programme should be in Estonian and 20% at Master's level. Doctoral studies are an entirely separate subject where objectives are different, and the use of this language is, in my opinion, neither a reason nor a need to regulate. Language prospects for studies in Estonian and English could be determined on the basis of the volume of courses in credit points. Now you will surely wonder how such a system works if we have foreign students and Estonian students and then maybe to some extent 20% they need to study in Estonian. I'll explain how this works. First, the 60% first: 40% and 20%: 80%. This is then the law of the so-called red line, not the obligation to bring all curricula to such a structure. However, if we are dealing with foreign language curricula, the foreign language share should not exceed 40% of the undergraduate programme. This could be imagined by the fact that these curricula, which are now English-language or largely English-language, begin their studies in English, but in addition, foreign students receive intensive instruction in the Estonian language and from the fourth semester or, gradually, transfer their teaching to the Estonian language and, in other words, the bachelor's thesis and graduation will all take place in Estonian. It is now basically similar to our current general consensus that bachelor studies must be kept in Estonian. We have a bachelor's degree in Estonian. In essence, this means that if we allow English-language education, it will only be limited to a certain amount, and it will also allow foreign students to study undergraduate studies. Reminder: this system worked exactly before the reform of higher education, four to five years ago. In doctoral studies, students began in Russian, for example, and gradually, when their knowledge of the Estonian language caught up, all the studies went to the Estonian language. The technical university had the same system. This proportion could be 20% in Master's Studies: 80%, or 20%. Here, foreign students and students from Estonia should be given a different so-called programme. Students from Estonia would be obliged to write a master's thesis in Estonian and it would be supplemented by a master's seminar in Estonian, all of which would be 20% of the curriculum. As the previous speaker has just said, because he has written the Bachelor's thesis and the Master's thesis in English, he is difficult to express in Estonian in his specialty. But the university, at least until the end of the master's degree, mainly serves Estonian society. Those who finish it must come to the Estonian-language environment and start working here, and they must be able to communicate both in speech and in writing in their specialty. However, if they study in English and also write the work in English, we are in the situation that they are not able to work in this environment. Such a change of law would enable us to really ensure that we have an Estonian-language education in English. In other words, although a person undergoes most of his or her studies in English, he or she has textbooks and language resources, he or she writes his or her master's thesis in Estonian and gets an Estonian-language education by studying in English. In the case of foreign students, the system would be different because it is important for them to acquire a practical Estonian language, so that they receive Estonian language education for 24 credits, which is 20% of the curriculum. For 12 points, language training would be mandatory for everyone, as the previous speaker said. This would be a practical study of Estonian in the first year of study. In the second year of study, there should be one optional compulsory module of 12 credits, which is Estonian. This compulsory optional module It would be intended for those who have some sort of desire to link their future to Estonia, to find work here. For them, the most important professional module may be at this particular moment, the second year of the Master's degree, Estonian language, so that after graduation they can find a job easier. It would also include an internship in an Estonian-speaking company, which should help to develop their Estonian language skills further. This would open up a little more opportunities for foreign students in terms of what to do after graduation. If their Estonian language remains non-existent and they cannot go to internships to find internships, it is a big problem, because the majority of Estonian companies still work in Estonian, they do not have the opportunity to stay here. Of course, those who do not wish to do so do not have to choose this other module. So, in principle, such a law amendment would help to determine the part of Estonian-language learning in each curriculum, not to say how many curricula we must have in Estonian and how many we must have in a foreign language, to ensure the development of Estonian-language education, the development of Estonian-language science and higher education in Estonian much more firmly than the current system in which we try to classify curricula. This bilingual use is also a Nordic choice and also my proposal, in which way a relatively small change can achieve relatively large and positive results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U98	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! My question is focused on a slightly wider focus of Estonian than your very specific and well-reported presentation. This is driven by Vilja Kiisler's recently published opinion story in Postimees, where the author talks about the concentration of culture and highlights the paradoxes of the current government on this subject. The article is entitled 'Ivanov's Question. On behalf of the nation state against culture.' For example, he says: 'The guardians of national culture and Estonian language are not dealing with what they preach, but rather with the encapsulation, isolation of the Estonian language and culture, which, in its essence, actually mingles and destroys, rather than holding the language and culture. ' My question is whether you consider the current government's rate of rhetoric to be counterproductive or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U100	I don't think the current government's course of action would be captivating in any way. I certainly agree that all kinds of protection of culture and language can be made so rigid that it creates encapsulation. At the same time, it can also be made so open and open that it threatens cultural sustainability. The question of the social debate is what is the "optimistic balance" between this so-called "encapsulation" and "openness."
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U101	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor Ehala! In your very logical and realistic slide presentation, one title was 'Initiation in Europe', where you said that the Nordic Council of Ministers and the League of European Research Universities note that rapid internationalisation is causing universities to become alienated from society. You've explained that a little bit. I may not want to make such a very long comment on this, but my question is this: as a language expert, tell me whether today, when communication technology is highly developed and the methods of teaching the language have become so quick and comfortable, all these possibilities are exploited in Estonia, that the Estonian language is very quickly and very, let's say, fluently made clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U103	Thank you for your question. Yes, it is being developed, but learning any language is not a very fast process. That is completely self-evident. So I don't know what better to say here. This is something that needs to be dealt with and that is what is being dealt with. There are national programmes for the development of language technology, part of which relates precisely to automatic translation. Term banks are part two. So it is being dealt with, but of course it could always be more dealt with and technology developed more quickly. This is, once again, one such issue of process.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U104	Annely Akkermann, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U105	Thank you very much, Honourable Vice-Chairman. Dear waitress, Professor Ehala! You said in your speech that this is a kind of spiral: when one speciality is turned into English, the number of students in other specialties in Estonian is immediately reduced, resulting in the following specialization being made English. Why do you think students have the motivation to study in English, however, so that the other Estonian-language curricula remain empty? Is it a desire to acquire a Bachelor's degree in terminology in English or is it just fashion?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U106	Thank you. I think there's both one and the other. A study based on interviews conducted by CentAR, the Centre for Applied Studies, on the relationship between higher education in Estonian and English, showed that there is quite a lot of attitude among students and also among lecturers, and in my opinion this is not a deplorable attitude, that it is just more interesting to study with foreign students in a diverse environment. There are different perspectives, and I'm pretty sure who doesn't want to meet other young people from other countries as a young person. It's exciting. So there is certainly a purely novelty and cultural appeal towards an English - language plan that allows you to learn in this sense as in a more interesting company. This is perfectly understandable, and I think that is one reason why students are attracted to English-language schemes. But the second reason, of course, is that the more English-language schemes there are, the greater the choice of English-language learning. And if the student chooses where and what he goes to study, then inevitably these English-language curricula will attract or compete with Estonian-languages. The more there are, the more places there are. These two things, together with the student, the young person's certain tendency to simply be in more interesting company and the abundance of opportunities just are the factors that keep this spiraling process going.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U107	Peter Ernits, next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U108	Good manager! Good waitress! You wrote the genius story 'A voteless surrender on the ideological front' some time ago and the language, especially the language of higher education, is crucial here. This so-called ideological war, of course, is not only in Estonia, but you indicated that there are many other countries as well. Unfortunately, Estonia is a relatively small and Estonian-speaking community all the more. But is this model suitable for, for example, Scandinavians or Poles, or any other major, suitable for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U109	I think that societies such as the Nordic countries, Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, are in a similar situation to Estonia. Although they are, aren't they, many times larger than the population, they are still, on a global scale, the same 'weight category' societies. I think that this principle, which they have developed, that we should strive to ensure that universities operate throughout two languages, ensures that the national language remains much better than we create two separate boxes, an English box and a national box. So in that sense, I'm totally on their side. This, of course, requires that teachers who have remained in the university, i.e. who have an open-ended contract, come to Tartu, for example, in order to stay, learn the Estonian language to the extent necessary to enable them to work here and participate in university life. By the way, it's already completely legalized. Language requirements included in the Language Act say that the university lecturers must speak Estonian at B1 level. Of course, the question is that it is not reasonable to require postdoctors and lecturers, guest lecturers who come here for a year, two or three, to learn the language as soon as they go in three years. But universities are always looking for the best, with the desire to leave them to their university, so that this university is like a basic base for them. It is important to explain to people who are offered a permanent job or career opportunity that the knowledge of the Estonian language is necessary and that they should also have this skills as a job assignment in their employment contract, so that they are less obliged to perform other duties at the expense of what they learn in the Estonian language. So this is such a flexible thing, but I think that bilingualism in universities is the path that must be taken to ensure that Estonian language stays in higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U110	Katri Raik, next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U111	Good President! Dear Professor Ehala! I listened with interest to your presentation and I am not in favour of this caste system, nor is it sensible in Estonian general education. But I was thinking that if the Ministry of Culture took your excellent proposals to discuss under Professor Aadu Black, we could imagine what reaction I wouldn't call a panic on the side of universities. We certainly do not want an Estonia in which universities do not have the autonomy that it has ever been. But give advice on how to break a certain scepticism in universities about your proposal. You know there is such skepticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U112	Thank you. I know that there is such skepticism, but I have not heard any serious argument as to why this system could not work or why it is not good. The only fear is that if we now say in our curricula that we need to learn Estonian, then foreign students will no longer come to study for us. It's like the basic fear they say. However, you know, it's like investing: do I really dare to invest in this company? For example, if we now change the curriculum and say that we have a compulsory study of the Estonian language within 12 credits and a choice of 12 points, then it is as if we are pushing our higher education into destruction. It's a matter of courage and determination. I do not think that will happen, and if it is seen that there will be some very serious consequences, this policy will have to be changed in a few years' time. But now to say that we are not doing this, because our fear that our higher education will then collapse or that it will no longer be competitive, I do not think it will be credible. That is why I came here today with this one point. This is precisely because it is possible to legitimise this point in the Riigikogu. It's kind of a small thing, and it leaves the universities room to play, how they're 40%: 60% and 80%: 20% are. No university is fully academically free. Academic freedom applies primarily to freedom of thought, not to all aspects of university work. Namely, I think that, for example, the choice of working language at a public university is not a matter of academic freedom, because in Estonia, public universities work in Estonian. If anything needs to be translated to someone, guest lecturers, it will be done. So I think, therefore, that making such a 'little' change of some kind of red line is a pretty good initiative for universities inside to be able to find a way to make it work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U113	Heidy Purga, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U114	Thank you, good deputy speaker. Dear Professor Ehala! My second question is motivated by the recently published book 'Mickless Language Abiths' by Valdur Mikita. The native language of its world'. This issue is aimed, on the one hand, at the creativity of the language and the development of the language and, on the other hand, at its limitations. This year is the International Year of Indigenous Languages and also the Estonian Year of Languages. This book tells about the Estonian world and describes Estonian as the largest and oldest joint work of the Estonian people. It says that a person can graduate from school and not be able to write correctly, but there is no reason for heartache; linguistic talent and spelling are different things, creativity and a personal sense of language are more important than spelling, and one who senses the taste of the words of the Estonian language does not need to know which word must be put into a comma. My question to you is what are the most important freedoms of the language for you in this context described above.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U115	In this context, of course, I think that freedom of creation, freedom to use the language as the speaker decides to use it, is the greatest right and freedom. At the same time, the consequences of every freedom and every right. So if I were to talk here in some language that is generally considered inappropriate, I think there are certain consequences for my reputation and this situation here. That is why I am saying that we all have the freedom and the right to decide whether or not to put in compasses. I don't do them myself sometimes, but it depends very much on the situation. There are situations where I'm making sure my commies are in place, and at least these slides I counted quite a few times to see if there's anything missing. It is that life is diverse and there must be freedoms, but there is also responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U116	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U117	Question, please! Time's running.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U118	My question is, how can we encourage our universities to see their position in Estonian society as a fundamental pillar and as an instrument for defending the Preamble of the Estonian Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U119	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, very respectable waitress. I thank you for all the good proposals you have made on how to amend the law so that our universities return to their constitutional course. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I will certainly support all your proposals on two sides when they come to work. I'd like to ask you a question about Aili Künstler's article, which she wrote in Sirbis, so what do we do then? I understand that all Estonian universities are facing a dilemma: on the one hand, they have an ambition to become an internationally recognised university of science, but on the other hand, they must act as public institutions in the spirit of the Estonian Constitution. Unfortunately, we can see that the Estonian state with its Constitution's preamble is in the way of university careers as strongly as possible. But what do we do? For example, Jaak Jõõüürt has said that on the Mother's Day of the National Library, the autonomy of universities must be limited, unless otherwise possible. This, of course, is resented, as we have already heard, because who loves these prohibitions and commands very much. But there's still nothing in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U120	Thank you. That is a very fundamental question, that is a broad question, and there is no single and short answer. It is clear that the social opinion on the role of the university in society and the kind of higher education we want is what sooner or later begins to tick the back of the university and makes them think about. This issue of alienation between society and university, I think universities have nothing to do with it. That is why it does not matter that sooner or later it will also have an impact on the funding of universities. If you can still see that universities are doing their business completely and are back to society, then there will be consequences. So this is certainly one way to adopt a broader social attitude, which should be our higher education, which would'soft' towards internal regulation, self-regulation, self-regulation, and the language policy itself. But there are certainly some small things worth legitimizing. One of these is my proposal here. I think it's worth considering.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U121	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U122	Good manager! Good waitress! You have offered us two cocktails, a Bachelor's Cocktail 40: 60 and a Master's Cocktail 20: 80. In the case of cocktails, the proportion of components and how it works is always important. What is the basis of such cocktails, why not some other percentage? And is the effect of these cocktails on the real preservation of the Estonian language real, or will it not be possible to find out how it will turn out?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U123	Yes, thank you for your question. I think that these cocktails are a real way to maintain Estonian language in higher education from wall to wall. The current method leads to the gradual extinction of higher education in Estonian. So that's why I think it's still a good solution, not a bad solution. Second, between 20: 80 and 40: 60. It is not mandatory that we have to make all the curricula this way. Currently, about 25% of master's programmes are in English. Getting an Estonian part of these plans would be a step forward. Whether and how many new English-language schemes are going to come is another question and is even separated from it. But even if this process continues, 20: 80 and 40: 60 ensure that education in Estonian is possible even if most of the studies take place in English.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U124	Thank you. The final question from Urmas Kruus is that the time for questions is running out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Professor! I can calm you down. This is a language that has recently been used in this Chamber, and no one is embarrassed about it and there are no consequences. The last thing we heard was we're all brain-dead here. But my question is about the same university in Estonian or about the scale of the Estonian language. When I listened to the honorable rector's interview this morning, there was such information that today we actually have about 10% of English in different situations at universities. And some have said that a lot of the faculty who come here are so global that they come here temporarily and have absolutely no motivation to actually learn this language. What do you think would be the medicine that would help to create an interest in learning the Estonian language? Although as a student, I could say that if I had a discipline that was just Estonian, it would seem as if it didn't bother me. But what would literally be those strawberries that would lure these people here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U126	Thank you. How much time do I have to answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U127	As much as you think is necessary for this answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U128	That's a perfectly good point! Many foreign lecturers are very mobile. Some of them are young postdocs who receive money for three years and the next three years are somewhere else. Young faculty get a fixed-term contract and visiting professors come a year or two, maybe three, maybe four, and then they go. In their case, really assume that they will now learn Estonian with great enthusiasm and acquire it by the end of the third year, when they leave it as part of the dream area, that is probably not the case. But we also have plenty of those who come to stay. They may not come right away to stay, but they are offered this opportunity, and this opportunity may not be offered the next day, when they have come here, but perhaps in a year's time, and they say that you would like to stay, for example, to develop your own chair, your own research team, but look, our university is working in Estonian, okay, and then we assume that in two or three years, Estonian still needs to be acquired. So that's the motivation. Those people who stay here as lecturers and find their own home university at this university could learn Estonian. In the case of students, I think that a certain proportion of foreign students are certainly interested in finding a job in Estonia. I have studied that there is a great interest in studying Estonian among foreign students at the University of Mainori, for example. There were 200 students and there was a surprisingly high interest among them. Indeed, studies have not been carried out on so-called foreign students of all Estonian public universities. I think that such a study would be badly needed, and I am positive that this interest is greater than what is generally thought to be, oh, they don't want, they don't, and then all of this will collapse when they are taught the Estonian language.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U129	Thank you, dear waitress, Professor Ehala, for a very interesting presentation. In this way, the presentations have been heard and the questions have been asked. Now is the opportunity to open negotiations. A simple glimpse of the wishes to participate in the negotiations shows that we will not be ready at one o'clock, perhaps in due time. Therefore, if you do not mind, I would like to put to the vote the proposal of the Isamaa Group to extend the sitting until the item is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. Let's vote before the negotiations begin. In short, let's prepare for the vote. So, I think we are both morally and physically prepared to make a decision on this important issue. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am voting on the proposal by the Isamaa Group to extend our sitting today until the item is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. The result of the vote is that 29 members of the Riigikogu were present in favour of the extension of the sitting, no one opposed and no abstentions. Consequently, the sitting has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no more than two o'clock. Let's get to the negotiations! The Isamaa Group has asked for the floor first for the representatives of the political groups. If I look logically, it's like there's been a queue, but I'm giving the floor according to the registration order. First is Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U130	Thank you. I'll have five plus three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U131	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U132	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you to all the waitresses! There were very interesting and meaningful presentations. However, in order to reach higher education in Estonian, you must have the opportunity to acquire and learn enough Estonian in advance. It's not today, or it's not like that. Thus, basic, primary, primary and upper secondary education in Estonian is an indispensable prerequisite for higher education in Estonian. Regrettably, Estonian-language higher education is not available to many residents of Estonia because of the lack of language skills. Thus, a common education system in Estonian is essential and in the interests of today's young people. But the lack of language skills is, of course, a much wider problem than education alone; it is also directly a question of social cohesion, integration and, indirectly, security in Estonia. I would like to remind you here that language skills are the fundamental basis of any integration, integration. On the Estonian language front, success can only be achieved through a broad-based approach, targeted development and policy implementation, as in the case of broad-based national defence, where the whole society is involved and the broad-based will exists. This means that the viability of the Estonian language is not only the responsibility of politicians and officials, but also of entrepreneurs, local authorities, ordinary citizens, sports people, cultural people and others. This is our common field of work. Thus, Estonian language in education, culture, entrepreneurship, place names, day-to-day service, everywhere and throughout. Now the regional higher education institutions, which have been discussed quite a bit here today, and which I also have quite a lot of contact with. Regional higher education institutions outside Tallinn and Tartu. Of course, regional higher education institutions located in the county centres are important for the counties in which they are located, and all these local authorities actively cooperate and fund higher education institutions through a variety of joint projects. So was the speech of the Viljandi Culture Academy of the University of Tartu today, which, I stress, is a municipal institution of national importance, not local importance. But the obligation to finance the routine and daily activities of these institutions cannot be assumed by Viljandi, Narva or other cities, for example. Firstly, Viljandi and these other cities do not have enough money to do so. There are other examples in Viljandi: Ugala, Estonian Heritage Centre, Museum, Hospital, Folk Culture Centre, Rural Promotion Foundation and other state institutions, all of whom the city of Viljandi is vitally interested. Secondly, it is such a deeply lame way of thinking towards Tallinn-Tartu. If we are saying that the College of Pärnu and Narva and the Viljandi Culture Academy should be co-financed from their budget on a compulsory basis by Pärnu, Narva and Viljandi if they want these institutions to continue their activities there, do we demand and is it really the case today that Tallinn and Tartu also co-finance higher education schools there? No, that's not what we're asking. It seems self-evident that these state universities are financed from the state budget and that Tallinn and Tartu should not have to co-finance them on a compulsory basis. Take, for example, Tartu Health Care College or Tallinn University of Applied Sciences or, for example, Tartu Aviation Academy or the Academy of Defence Forces located in Tallinn and Tartu. Has Tallinn and Tartu committed themselves to co-financing these applied higher education institutions if they want them to continue to be there? I only mentioned a small list. But in the case of Pärnu, Narva and Viljandi, we already consider this to be self-evident and logical. By this I would like to say that all this funding for regional higher education institutions is a broader issue. Here it is necessary to decide how to finance the regional universities' higher education institutions in Viljandi, Pärnu, Narva; secondly, independent applied higher education institutions, such as the University of Tartu Health Care, Tallinn University of Applied Sciences, etc., and thirdly, the so-called schools of state employers, the Academy of Home Affairs and the Tartu Aviation Academy. It must be part of a national education policy, not a decision based on the different possibilities and different wills of individual municipalities. And finally. I am well aware that there are no free items. If Estonian-language education and Estonian-language free higher education are to be maintained and developed, the Estonian state must contribute more from the budget, ensure that Estonian-language higher education is adequately funded. That's an inevitable assumption. The development of higher education in Estonian is a prerequisite for Estonians to be on the map of the world as a cultural people. I'm gonna bring up a couple of observations about life itself and this hall. First of all, the Fatherland Party in Tartu recently held its own council meeting. In the conference hall, located in the centre of Tartu, there were signs 'Password' and 'Username' on the wall. There was not even an Estonian translation, only English terminology. I don't think all these things can be written by law. The desire to use Estonian and the understanding that we use Estonian where it is possible and where it should be elementary, must be deeply embedded in society. Secondly, we in this hall should use good Estonian or at least Estonian words. If Estonian words exist, you do not need to use foreign words. Today, too, I was approached with the expression 'Dear Speaker! '. There is no spy in the Estonian Riigikogu; the Estonian Riigikogu is the President of the Riigikogu. And instead of the deputy speaker, if you like, the vice president, the vice president. Estonian terms exist and we should not use foreign language words, all the more so that the content is not exactly the same. I remember that the President of the Georgian Parliament is probably in charge, so instead of'speaker', tamada can also be used. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U133	Thank you. Next, please Signe Kivi, the Reform Party Group! There's more time if you have to.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U134	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We would like to acknowledge the faction of the Riigikogu Isamaa, who initiated a debate on the future of higher education in Estonian in this Chamber and did so at a time when we have just celebrated the 100-year anniversary of the National University. I would also like to thank all the rapporteurs and, in particular, Martin Ehala, who presented concrete proposals to improve the situation. Last week, the Riigikogu delegation was at the Baltic Assembly Conference and our Lithuanian and Latvian colleagues raised the problem of higher education in their own language, especially in the context of protecting doctoral thesis. We were asked to receive information and advice. But yes, the language issue is not just a matter of language; it is also a question of the quality of higher education, the question of funding science and higher education, the question of the credibility of Estonia as a country and the question of every man and woman in this Chamber. At the same time, the language issue should avoid simple solutions in black and white, as problems can be very specific in different areas. On 10 September this year the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu met with the rectors of Estonian public universities. Rectors acknowledged that the expectations expressed by the state for the internationalisation of higher education are contradictory, and the signals of the state are somewhat dual. The Ministry of Education and Research has included indicators of internationalisation in the performance agreements, but there is increasing criticism of the opening of foreign language curricula. Administrative agreements provide for compulsory education in Estonian for foreign students and foreign teachers, but do not involve a separate budget, and universities must make a serious effort to deal with such an important area. For example, the Estonian Academy of Arts has interpreted it more broadly to teach Estonian language and culture. We all know that English education is a threat to education in Estonian. Yeah, it really pays to be careful here, but not to be speechless. I use this word to quote the statistic Ene-Margit Tiitu. Because we are honest, paid English curricula support the provision of free Estonian-language education in universities. Professor Toomas Asser, rector of the University of Tartu, has repeatedly raised the rhetorical question of whether today's university can be throughout Estonian and answered that it is better to see how universities gain from multilingualism and how university graduates in other languages can be linked to Estonian society. I would like to quote Professor Ivari Ilja, the rector of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre at this point: 'If the concern for the Estonian language is sincere, we should certainly pay more attention to our national sciences, Estonian art and music science, theatrical, literary and historical sciences, because the current system of funding for science leaves some of the national sciences with the role of orphan and both the basic funding, the 5% distribution mechanism and the ETA research support framework, without ensuring the necessary continuity. And if we ask where, in addition to fiction, the Estonian language lives and develops on a high level, then definitely in our national sciences. Besides, there is no one in the world who could and could do this science except ourselves. However, it would certainly not be wise to force the use of Estonian during the study period to the physicist of nanostructures; rather, he should be given additional subjects that would create a desire in him to develop the terminology of his specialty in Estonian and the need to speak in Estonian about his specialty. ' Finally. Good members of the coalition! Our discussion today would be more meaningful and meaningful if you had turned Estonian early education and school education into a single and Estonian language, which we submitted to the Riigikogu on 18 April of this year, in this Chamber. That's what you, the EKRE and the Fatherland promised before the election. You promised! Since I began with the recollection of the national university's anniversary, it is quite appropriate to quote the speech of Peter Põllu, which he gave at the opening of the national university of the Republic of Estonia on 1 December 1919. This quote is taken from a longer text and reads: 'In this sense it is no matter who teaches here what language he teaches, if it is the science he teaches. " It would be interesting to know what Mr Põld would think of today's university situation and today's debate. Happy continuing Estonian language year and thank you for your attention! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U135	Thank you. Katri Raik, please, Social Democratic Party faction!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U136	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, 'I'm so multiplicity every day, also free-minded, old-fashioned, bourgeois, either a workman, yes, even the nobility sometimes. And who else knows where the mind would travel if one party were forgotten: my Estonian language. Thus: my party is Estonian. ' So wrote Juhan Liiv, who lived in 1864 to 1913, before the Estonian University of Tartu was founded. In fact, I could read this poem and get out of this remote control, but there are a few things I should add. A good colleague named Signe Kivi as the new anniversary of the University of Tartu. I listened very carefully to what, in terms of languages, is precisely the plural: on the issue of languages, students will say in their speeches. Everyone said something. The language issue was at the heart of the 100th anniversary of the Estonian University. It's natural in itself. But the students spoke languages in plural; they spoke not only Estonian and English, but also other foreign languages. And for me, it's very sympathetic when we think about our geographic location and our history, and that's what we should be thinking about. Today, my heart was a little sore that we talked a lot about the language, but we didn't talk about Estonian literature, history. Maybe you didn't have to talk, but the Estonian mind goes with the Estonian language. And just as it is important to work on the development of the Estonian language, it is important to do research on literature, supporting literature, because the language lives in literature or in support of the study of Estonian history, which is particularly close to my heart. All these issues are very important. Thirdly, serving society is the third function of the university alongside science and teaching. The Estonian university serves Estonian society, that is absolutely clear. I will give an example of history, perhaps not the most successful: in 1935 the Estonian state signed a secret agreement with Germany. To sell what to Germany? Oil from oil shale. And that's why the Tallinn University of Technology actually came up, because this whole area had to be studied to produce better oil shale oil. I repeat, this is not the most successful example of the historical context, but let us not forget that Estonian language, Estonian society and Estonian university are closely linked. The student Sigrid Västra, who undoubtedly made a very constructive presentation, mentioned today as the only figure: let higher education be funded by 1.5% of GDP in the future and science by 1% of GDP. I was very happy to be surprised when a good colleague, Helir-Valdor Seeder, just said that universities need extra money. So let's figure out these numbers. Universities need extra funding for both study and science. I am so glad that I can not ask the poisonous question of how my own former party convened a round of discussions, without realising at all that universities must be financed both in terms of education and science. I put it to my heart once more: Estonia is part of Europe, this balance of 1.5% of GDP for learning and 1% of GDP for science has justified itself in other Nordic countries. I think it would be fair for us too. I hope that maybe this is the issue in which we find a great deal of consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U137	Thank you. Aadu Black, please, Central Party faction!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U138	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I looked at my originally written text and was delighted to discover that 70% of it has been talked about beautifully, logically and nicely. Therefore, I think that I can only limit myself to certain marginal remarks that one or the other issue raised in me. I'm just a fragmentarium in the record, but I think that makes sense. First of all, I would like to emphasise this or to say thank you to the authors of the subject, just as several sympathetic previous speakers have already done. It is a kind of smile for the centenary birthday of our national university, which is very intimately connected to this subject. However, the same subject also relates, for example, to the very many topics that we have discussed in our Committee on Culture. And thank you to Signe, who stressed that this has also been discussed and will continue to be discussed by the Baltic Assembly Committee on Culture! It seems my duty to say that the exact same subject as the Baltic Assembly, the head of the delegation of which I am on the Estonian side, is also extremely acute in the Nordic Council, where not only is the protection of the Sami language spoken, but it also talks about the proportion of my native-language and foreign-language studies and the principle that the university is not a university, unless there are at least 10% of foreign students in both Bachelor's, Master's and Doctor's studies. Professor Ehala spoke up most of what I would have liked to say, and I am pleased about that. I'll make it easier. But I'm gonna hook up with the clue that was given to Dutch universities. One of our partners is Benelux. We attend the meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, we are observers and we say the word. They spoke very warmly about the relations between English and their own languages, in their native language, and were deeply offended by what was done to them. In this case, there were a certain number of items in the archives that were close to me, in which they were pioneers in the world. They lectured in English, and those who studied with them no longer allow their students to come to them, but read as they themselves say our notes themselves. But it's a side-by-side issue. Now, very interesting was a major conference organised by the European Research Fund a few years ago or, in fact, a decade ago, where one about Estonia was a lot interesting about Estonia, based on computer analysis, proving that Estonia's independence is not likely for economic and political reasons. It was a fancy computer program, and it showed that it wasn't. Then, of course, I rushed the remote and began to settle and argue, and finally I found an argument that everyone believed. Programmers had not taken into account one crucial point: it is the education religion of the Estonian people, which has been our guarantee of independence. It is remembered how in 1917 the head of the Estonian knighthood, Baron Dellingshausen Poska, announced: 'You cannot make your country, you do not even have educated people. " And when Poska wrote in Russian newspapers that Estonian sons, come home to your country, no, sorry, he was not allowed to write like this, build his home, then thousands of doctors, engineers, surveyors, telegraphists, and representatives of dozens of other trained professions came to build his home or build his country, because it was one of our mentalities. Of course, in the sense of the crime before the national government, it could be said that the Estonian language also had a number of popularity victories. One of the largest was even in the 17th century, when the landlords wrote great birthday celebrations to each other. It was the abstinence propaganda, the Estonian part of the abstinence propaganda, for the landlords: 'Don't get drunk, you're a man and you're not butter. " Or a little-known fact in the history of war. The victory of the Russian troops was... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U139	Three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U140	... played a major role in Barclay de Tolly's cipher. He wrote to his generals, "Writing in the language of your arms. ' Values tend to be used as a pendulum. I remember how, after regaining independence, we had a bit of an inferiority complex and talked about internationalization. At the university there was an order to be published abroad and when I asked the inch rector if Valka was okay, he initially thought it would be okay to publish it in foreign languages as well. Points were given for how and where something is published. And I admire those men who acted without score. Take Toivo Maimets, for example, who wrote a textbook on cell biology and thereby took the terminology in Estonian to a new level, or Jaan Järvik, professor at Tallinn University of Technology, for example, who did the same in his field. At the time, we were told that it was only nomenclature magazines that could be published, and then I won my first personal victory. It turned out that the nomenclature, which is quoted internationally, can also be brought into Estonian-language journals or set up an international editorial board and thus meet all requirements. Today, however, by supporting this movement, universities are of the opinion that there must be an Estonian-language university. But I'm still saying, you can't go too far with anything. One of the dangers that, once we are very successful, Scares us, is high school. Fortunately, it has already been said that in the case of doctoral studies, we should not even say that we are all going to study only in Estonian. And there is another very important moment: let us not push all disciplines, all areas into one, saying that science must be so! Humanities, national sciences, different sciences are really very different, their requirements are different. Atom remains an atom in Berlin, Brussels and Prague, as well as Pukas, Puurmanis and Purtse. This is a much more international field than, for example, the national sciences, which is actually a key issue in promoting, protecting and developing the language. The university is in trouble. A good colleague, Hele Everaus, mentioned so wonderfully how he must teach students the Estonian language. We have people coming from high school who do not speak Estonian. If the university has to start doing upper secondary school work, then it's bad. And, of course, the same threat that everyone was talking about, all those anglisms that have invaded our language. But in order to hang some pepper on myself, I recall how surprised I was when students of the University of Tartu did the editing task. Based on what? On the basis of the Riigikogu's drafts. For example, there was a specific draft, from which they found 29 language errors since they improved 'zero tolerance' to 'unforgiving', etc. I would have been okay with a format that allows me to talk for 45 minutes, then take a 15-minute break and then talk for another 45 minutes, but I'm just finishing up right here. Our important development must be the balance between the internationalisation of universities and learning in their native language. It's that simple. And it must be done without rigid and dictatorial laws, that every profession must be so and not differently! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U141	Thank you. Üllar Saaremäe, member of the Riigikogu, please! Oh, I'm sorry! Jaak for the White EKRE! Yeah. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good technical personnel! I have to say again that I have to repeat the thoughts of many previous speakers, although in fact it is a certain quality mark when many thoughts come to many people at the same time. First of all, I would like to note that it was really enjoyable to listen to presentations in beautiful Estonian at a time when the language of the permanent residents of this hall, including mine, may have acquired such a chancellor's gesture. Secondly, our Fatherland Party should be commended for raising the topic of the future of higher education in Estonian. This is undoubtedly appropriate and timely, but it is also bizarre, not a complaint to our coalition partner, but actually to the situation we have reached. Then why is it weird? I'll try to answer that. Since our topic is the future of higher education in Estonian, I look at this situation from the perspective of the future. Suppose, in a few hundred years' time, a beginner's historian begins to study the main problems of the Estonian state at the beginning of the 21st century, and suppose that his supervisor tells him as a primary principle of investigation that he should, of course, start with the basic documents of this state, or the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, in order to apprehend the nature of this country. According to this scenario, this beginner's investigator would read the constitution in English. In any case, he would read that our introduction to the Constitution states that we must develop our country in order to ensure the preservation of Estonian nation and culture throughout the ages. § 37 states that everyone has the right to receive education in Estonian. Okay. Listening to today's serious debate, this beginner's future historian could be rather puzzled, especially when his supervisor or colleagues have told him that it was as if they had heard from somewhere that Estonians were an exceptionally law-abiding nation. His amazement would increase if he further examined that Moscow's foolishness in the second half of the 20th century was fulfilled with German precision, and at the beginning of the 21st century, even the most foolish orders from outside were sought to be followed in the most correct way, but at the same time his own constitution was not complied with. But the fact that Estonian history will not be known at all in a few hundred years is still an unrealistic scenario, which assumes that Estonians will no longer exist and Estonian will no longer be spoken. The second realistic scenario is that Estonians have survived as a nation and, of course, progressed. In this case, the instructors of this beginner's historian in Estonian, and he himself, know the subject much better and have probably experienced it on his own. At that time, the alma mater of Tartu should deal with the preservation of the Estonian language for mandarin or the attack on the Arabic language. And this Estonian future historian knows that he can rely on the experience of the beginning of the 21st century as an excuse for foreign words for globalist ideology! The attack was on the brink of the wave, and the Estonian language was in the greatest danger. He knows there were three things going on. Globalist ideology all over the world withdrew, politicians changed legislation and Estonian people's national inferiority complex replaced with self-confidence. But I'm coming back today. EKRE as a law-abiding party has, of course, always been based on the Estonian Constitution. More specifically, I would argue that it is appropriate to address the future of higher education in Estonian in the context of the entire Estonian education system and in the context of all higher education problems. In addition to the question of Estonian, EKRE considers that higher education has two major problems. First, higher education is not geared towards the needs of Estonian society, and second, the quality of higher education is declining. These problems are interrelated and also related to Estonian science and research policy. So, in general terms, the solution is to change regulations and a financing model that indirectly makes English-language learning useful to universities. But the solution is also to change regulations that make the quantity of orienteering useful, i.e. the number of students, including increasing the number of foreign students, rather than focusing on the quality of learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U143	Thank you. Now please Üllar Saaremäe from the Fatherland, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U144	Honourable Vice President! Good ambassadors! I honestly admit that my speech today is based in many ways on quotations, but what can I do if somebody has already written down those thoughts that are important to me? 'Every language is a world in its own right, allowing phenomena of reality to be classified either way or otherwise, encouraging thinking in many ways. I am convinced that the speakers in one language think differently than the speakers in another. " That's what Uku Masing thought, a man who possessed dozens of languages, if not hundreds. To gain access to the widest possible range of thinking, Masing tried to deal with as many languages as possible. I will only stick with one language, my own, Estonian. I'm also asking for three extra minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U145	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U146	Next, I would like to discuss the Estonian language by holding a meaningful dialogue with Professor Karl Pajusalu of Estonian history and dialects. Nor can the aforementioned Uku Masingu pass, and if another poet slips in, may my weakness be forgiven. In addition to my many poetry productions, I invited Estonia's first general poetry party to life just out of love for mother tongue and poetry. Pajusalu thinks of the Estonian language in this way: 'Language has an important place in the identity of Estonians. Sometimes it has been claimed that Estonian is at the core of Estonian. There is no doubt that Estonian is part of being Estonian, apart from the many cultural and social features of the Estonian language, but we also rely on our own language to interpret them. The Estonian is usually proud of its language, and can quickly name its more specific phenomena, such as the three edges or the large number of weather maps. On the other hand, we like to complain that the Estonian language cannot express it or the other. The poets worry about the limited amount of rhyming words and the difficulty of finding suitable terms for physicists; unfortunately, no one has noticed the lack of words for complaining. " It is as if the nature of the Estonian, the role of the language, and the main areas of pain have been summed up in this short passage, and the spice of the dose of national self-irony is quite spiced. The Fatherland Party, like Pajusalu, interprets Estonia through the Estonian language room. The essence of the Estonian state lies in the preservation of language and culture throughout the ages. The problem area that has been discussed today and to which we draw attention time and again is the development of our mother tongue, modernity, topicality. Today's debate on a key national issue focuses on the future of higher education in Estonian. In this context, the Estonian language acquires meaning and a special hint by Professor Pajusalu to physicists who are struggling with the adoption of professional terms. In this context, 'physicists' can be considered as a general denominator for other professionals. One might ask whether the development of a specialized term in Estonian must be the task of the physicist himself. Instead, let us think that every new invention, technology, discovered species, even an unknown natural phenomenon, in my opinion, is simply to be named in our own language. And then it'll be used. And so it becomes a part of the language. This is one way to apply our national identity in real life. Woeing does not develop Estonian scientific language. It may seem that the creation and introduction of the Estonian term is more complicated than the scientific discovery itself. 'Can't! 'and 'Too heavy!' " There are no answers that we can afford. Instead, you have to ask yourself, 'How? ' and not to stop before the goal is achieved. If the physicist does not find the appropriate word himself, it will be done by linguists, writers, translators, or even the public through words or collections of ideas. Kadrina Pastor and Case Wooter Reiner Brocmann have already written in 1637: "Let the others do differently; I want to write in Estonian. The Estonian language is spoken in the country, the Estonian language is spoken on the beach, the Estonian language is spoken in castles, the Estonian-speaking peasants, the Estonian-speaking noblemen; scholars today too. The Estonian language is also spoken by the ladies, the Estonian language is spoken by those who came from Germany, the Estonian language is spoken by young and old. The Estonian language is heard in churches because God himself teaches Estonian languages. " The year was 1637. This is the will that I draw attention to at the time of the non-Estonian minister when the teaching of the written language to the peasant population was just begun. More than 200 years remained until the national awakening, and almost three centuries remained until the Republic of Estonia was established. If the 17th-century intellectuals had limited themselves to the answers, 'Can't! 'and 'Too heavy!' ', then would we speak Estonian today? Would there be ourselves? When the Prosamaa Party Council made a political statement on activities to develop the vitality of the Estonian language at every level, we listed three main points: general education in Estonian, higher education in Estonian and Estonian in public space. The three, however, have a personal attitude to always use and always recreate Estonian. Estonian is the starting point for Estonian. Since I started with Uku Masing, let me finish with his words. 'Cause we're the ones with a home set, a woman and a child, just a lying cloud stripe and a horse's scab. Only a stained spreader and a dusty Konarais road, when there is no land left for us, we can injure the waters of the seas. In our shadows we still walk, and the flags are our hands, since the latter are still free from the mountains of God's heavens. ' Isn't it fair and clear? Keeping and teaching, learning, and loving our tongue!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U147	Thank you. Next up is Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U148	Ladies and gentlemen, Good manager! Can I have a few more minutes in advance, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U149	Three more minutes, huh?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U151	It will.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U152	Mati Hint once wrote that Estonia will no longer be taken with foreign tanks and helicopters and that the cultural and political elite, I think, will not be deported or shot. Martin Ehala has developed this idea further, saying that it is a kind of cultural disruption of the snow queen, a silent surrender on the ideological front. The language of higher education is at the front line here. I quote Ehala: 'Ideological opponents urges [---] not to care about outdated standards, not to deny themselves anything. [---] Because fantasy has no boundaries, there are no limits to pleasure, there are no limits to vanity, there are no limits to laziness, there are no limits to consumption. [---] The enemy associate principle with hate [----], so that nothing can be considered sacred without feeling guilty about the internal torch train. Granted, my love for this land, language, and culture dates back to the century of hangers and scythes and is incompatible with the world's flowing diversity. ' But let's see how silent surrender on the ideological front actually works. One observation. On 10 May 2012, the Riigikogu adopted the Law on Higher Education with 53 votes. The Minister of Education was Jaak Aaviksoo, chairman of the Committee on Culture Urmas Klaas. On May 14, four days later, Kaspar Kruup, head of the University of Tartu student body, wrote: "I can imagine how the posters of the next Riigikogu elections will hear the words 'We completed free higher education for students! " I read it and I can smell it in my mouth. ' He also said: 'Engagement and populism are the only interests, and under their iron dictation, 53 men and women danced their index fingers 'for' button. ' On 17 October this year, we discussed the report on higher education reform and labour needs in the Special Committee on State Budget Control. It's here. What's coming out of there? Reform failed, Kaspar Kruub was right. The aim was noble: free higher education, even the poorest get to the university, employers get the specialists they really need, and the state takes responsibility for maintaining higher education institutions. The real result was the other way around. Estonians have not been added, they produce intellectuals who are not needed by the employer. Out of the 12 sectors with growing labour needs, only three currently meet the needs of the country and the funding of universities is insufficient. But most important in the context of today's context, universities have quickly become English-speaking instead. Universities have become more international since the reform. Between 2012 and 2018, the number of foreign students has increased exponentially, three times. 2012 was 3%, or 450, while last year was 13%, or 1500. In 2018, there were a total of 76 English-language curricula, with 58 additions. And, of course, an opportunity was seen, e. through them, universities are able to make money. Today Jaak Aaviksoo, a respected academician, is sitting in the office of the Rector of Tallinn University of Technology. He has wiped out the name of Tallinn University of Technology and replaced it with Mr TalTech in English. Urmas Klaas, then chairman of the cultural committee, has become the mayor of Tartu, our university town. We, on the other hand, are discussing, again, on the ruins of a largely failed reform of higher education seven years ago, how to counter silent surrender. But there are many people who support silent surrender, and they still sit at the key points of society. They repeat and repeat that the love of this land, language, and culture dates back to the century of hangers and scythes and is in no way compatible with the new normality of today's world. They think that principle means hate and that we must feel guilty about our inner torch train. Anu Kell, a well-known mother tongue teacher who has been reading the final writings for decades, recently said that Estonian essays who have been in school for 12 years are becoming increasingly empty. You don't have to read a book in 12 years to pass the exam. Primitive, simple tissue. Before you remember the English word, you remember the English word. And he says that there are a great many of those 7,000 to 8,000 writers who are not interested in anything, and these are Estonians, these are our futures. There are many reports that we read every week in the Special Committee on State Budget Control on two days. Here is an example of 'Organisation of adult Estonian language learning and public funding'. Remember? The problems are still very serious. I didn't bring those other reports here, you know. The situation is very serious and I would like to thank at least those 15 or 16 colleagues who, in this sweet lunch hour, have respected the discussion of this nationally crucial issue, and Professor Ehala, who are still here. We must seriously think about what to do and how to actually resist this ideological silent surrender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-03_U153	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. Negotiation requests are exhausted. If there are no other proposals, I am saddened to announce that the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 1:17 p.m.
