ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, hello and Happy New Year! We will begin the Monday session of the first working week of the IX plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U2	First of all, the honourable Riigikogu, in connection with the suspension of the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu, Külliki Kübarsper, Jüri Saar became a member of the Riigikogu on 11 January. Let's hear his oath. Please, Jüri Island!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U3	Good afternoon. Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U4	And now, is there really still a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U5	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs wishes to deliver a draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act. We know that the last few years have once been arid, once rainy. In order for the government to be able to declare an emergency situation in accordance with the weather conditions, we are handing over such a bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U6	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the representatives of the islands that are members of the Riigikogu, I will report to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Samson about the question of ferry traffic with Hiiumaa. The question is motivated by the simple fact that the giants once again have dissatisfaction with ferry traffic. For active and enterprising people living on the island, the winter schedule has proved too thin in working days. As we know, five trips per day are made in each direction on working days. Even if we can see that there seem to be few passengers in the salon while driving to Hiiumaa, for example, on this Sunday evening several trips from Rohuküla to Heltermaa and, contrary to larger vehicles, the possibility of booking tickets was nonexistent. The practice of five trips only started in January last year. The municipality of Hiiumaa has on several occasions expressed the expectations of entrepreneurs and the community on a tighter schedule and, last November, sent letters to the Ministry responsible and the Road Administration. There have been mutual understanding meetings in the past, but there have been no more travels. They say there's no shortage of dotation, that's all there is to it. That is why we are asking the Minister to answer a number of questions. Minister, of course, the ferry schedules are not drawn up by themselves and he cannot be blamed for the fact that the giants are not satisfied with the schedule, yet he has responded to the representatives of the local government that the less frequent schedule has its reasons. We ask that they be explained in more detail and ask what is behind the desire of the island's people, according to which the ferry schedule would be 12 trips per week, each way a month. We also have other questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U8	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U9	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to refer the question to the Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõnis, on behalf of the 11 members of the Reform Party Group. What's the matter? As we know, the state's financial statements come with a certain time shift, i.e. when we get them, it's already history. This led to a request made last week to the Ministry of Finance about the state reserves as at 31 December 2018. This is a nice date, which is the date on which the balance sheet is struck and the annual accounts are closed. The next set of reserves came out of the response. The stabilisation reserve is 412 million; there were no major changes last year. More interesting, however, is what has happened to the liquidity reserve. The balance of the liquidity reserve was EUR 676 million, but if you go back, it was higher on 31 December 2017, which means that the liquidity reserve decreased last year. This is somewhat surprising to me, I admit honestly, because in economic terms 2018 was a very good year and taxes were collected very well. From here on, the liquidity reserve has been deposited with the unemployment fund, the sickness fund and other institutions for a total of 1.3 billion. So I guess I'm not exaggerating when I say half the money that the health insurance fund, the unemployment fund and the others...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U11	... foundations have deposited, has been spent on the day-to-day expenses of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U12	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U13	Honourable Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have a good opportunity to re-transmit the draft law amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws concerning the unification of the Environmental Board and the Environmental Inspectorate. This time 16 Members have signed it. Last year, we didn't manage this change, there were fewer supporters than the opponents, so let's try again this time. This bill probably does not need any further comment at this time. Please support this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U14	I have adopted eight drafts on behalf of the Bureau. Oh, not yet. Government of the Republic, please! My bad. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U15	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching six draft laws today. First, the draft law ratifying the social security agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Belarus. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva. Secondly, the draft law on the accession of Hong Kong to the International Convention on Safe and Environmentally Sound Recycling of Ships. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Courts Act and the Prosecutor's Office Act. Fourthly, a draft law amending the Trade Marks Act, the Industrial Property Law Act and other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the State Statistics Act and the Public Information Act. Sixth, the bill to amend the Accounting Act. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U16	Now, I have adopted eight draft laws and two inquiries. I consider it my duty to remind both members of the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic that this Riigikogu is still working for five working weeks. However, with these drafts, we are acting in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the first working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, there was no one against, one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U17	The first item on the agenda is an inquiry by Külliki Kübarsepp, Ain Lutsepp, Enn Meri, Krista Aru and Andres Herkel. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U18	Mr President of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Also for the short period that we still have to work, the Free Party will continue to question. The Minister of Public Administration has been our favourite in some ways in connection with enquiries. These ministers have changed at an unusual rate since the start of the reform, and Mr Mägg is already the fourth in this job. In my opinion, this question is different to him. We do not really understand why we have to have double ministers in our ministries. I don't understand when the reform will end, so I can pack things up. We don't really have that knowledge. Of course, parliamentary scrutiny of the results and consequences of the reform should be regular in order to understand these issues. Our second starting point is that when the previous ministers carried out this reform, the Free Party was probably the most active Riigikogu group with all kinds of questions and drafts. Some things probably got better, some undisputed mergers were prevented, but in general many issues have arisen during this administrative reform, which we have not understood either during or after the reform. In our previous inquiry, we asked how the original objectives of the administrative reform have been met, particularly in financial terms, whether the investment capacity of the larger municipalities has increased and what is wrong with the wages of the local government leaders, because they have risen exponentially during the process. The reason for today's consultation may be, above all, a public comparison with OECD countries. This can be summarised as two points. Firstly, the fiscal autonomy of Estonian municipalities is very low. We ask what the government has ever done to increase it. More tasks should be transferred and then clearly defined at municipal and national level. Although the Centre Party talked about all this very much during the reform, now that you have a ministerial seat, we have not heard much about it any more. It is quite strange, quite frankly, that the issues of financial autonomy have remained somewhere. Secondly, the OECD analyses show that the output of Estonian municipalities in policy-making is still very limited. Hence our questions. What has been done to increase the real influence and autonomy of local governments? And finally, the style of 'carthage must be destroyed' still leaves the question of when the reform has been completed, so you don't have to have another minister in the Ministry of Finance. I remember Arto Aas once said when he became a minister that once the reform was completed, he would leave the office and put out the fire. He left the office, but now he's the third minister. Perhaps this issue of fire-extinguishment should also be broken up here. When has the administrative reform been completed and we can return to normal logic, not to the logic of the reform, where this ministerial post may really have been necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U19	Janek Mäggi, Minister of Public Administration, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U20	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Group of the Good Free Party and Andres Herkel! By way of introduction, the fire will go out in 48 days, and it is up to the next government to decide whether or not someone will set it on fire again. But I'll answer the question. The first question: 'How do you assess compliance with the objectives set out in the Administrative Reform Act? Is and how has the capacity of local authorities to provide public services been achieved (please give concrete examples)? How will a more coherent development of the regions be ensured? " There is no reason to doubt that the reform that took place on the basis of the law approved by Parliament created the preconditions for more capacity and better performing the tasks of the merged municipalities. International experience from countries that have made similar reforms also says that it is not a good time to make assessments until the end of the first four-year electoral period. Over the last year, most municipalities have worked on the development of uniform services and grants throughout the municipality. Greater self-governments have better opportunities to develop services for residents in the areas of social welfare and home care, such as social transport services, supporters, substitute care or economic and construction architects. The total number of officials in the merged municipalities has decreased by more than 300 people, i.e. by about 10%. The share of employees providing support services to managers, accountants and others has fallen. The number of people providing services has increased, such as children's guards, lawyers, IT managers. The net result of the local government's core business is expected to increase to more than 250 million euros from 2019. By comparison, the same figure was EUR 210 million a year earlier. For investments, local authorities will direct around EUR 1.9 billion over the period 2018 to 2022, which is about 1.5 times more than in the previous four-year period. A reduction in excessive fragmentation will contribute to the objective of a more coherent development of regions. That's what I've experienced myself driving around and going to local governments. Question 2: 'How much did it cost to implement the administrative reform from the state budget (2017, 2018, 2019)? How much savings will local governments make as a result of the reform? How many people who received redundancy payments left for private business or retired? 'On the initiative of the councils, or voluntarily merged 47 municipalities, a total of EUR 64.5 million was allocated in the form of merger grants, of which EUR 49,9 million are investments, EUR 8.6 million in redundancy payments and EUR 6 million in other costs. Other costs included, for example, the integration of IT systems and the replacement of tags and links. The investments made in connection with the merger grants of nearly EUR 50 million are an additional resource that the merged municipalities and cities can use for their development. In the case of mergers initiated by the Government, the State compensated the municipalities for the direct and unavoidable costs of the merger. These costs were reimbursed to 15 municipalities and a total of EUR 1,2 million was paid. Of this, 0.8 million euros went to redundancies and 0.4 million euros to other costs. Ten unifications initiated by the government, but not completed, also resulted in costs, as the proposal for accession obliged municipalities to conduct a public survey. In addition, these municipalities were able to order analyses and studies to respond to the government's proposals. A total of EUR 55000 was allocated by the State to cover the costs of the unfinished merger cases. The main objective of the administrative reform was to increase the professional capacity of municipalities to carry out the tasks assigned to them, rather than to make financial savings, this was not the primary objective. If local governments are able to make more effective use of the money, the surplus will be diverted to other necessary activities. We do not have the kind of data to which people made redundant from the merged municipalities have exactly begun to work. The Ministry of Finance has no intention of collecting these data either. Question 3: 'Why has the government not discussed proposals to increase the financial autonomy of local authorities and to transfer additional tasks? Why is it not desirable to have this debate at the level of the Riigikogu? How has the lack of such decisions affected the autonomy of the municipality and the provision of more accessible and high-quality services? ' The government has discussed the relevant proposals; the current government has set a clear direction that the right of local governments to direct their own funds in their budgets must increase. The Government discussed these proposals on 21 September 2017 and two decisions were taken in the Cabinet. Firstly, by 2021 at the latest, the targeted support from the support fund for local tasks will be increased to the local government revenue base by allocating the corresponding resources through income tax and equalisation funds. From 2019, 206 million euros of support and 2.2 million euros of support for the development of waste management were transferred to the municipal income base for the provision of social benefits and services. Secondly, the government entrusted ministries with the task of analysing the possible transfer of disability periodic allowances, vocational education, upper secondary school education, private schools, state-owned secondary roads and coaches to the local government unit. The results of the analysis had to be submitted to the Ministry of Finance by the fourth quarter of 2018. The Ministry of Finance has received the positions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition, in July 2017, the government decided that the income base of local governments should be gradually increased both in terms of income tax and in terms of the Equalisation Fund. This means that the municipal income base will increase by 5.5 million euros by 2021 compared to 2017. The share of the local government's income base is therefore 11,96% in 2021. The increase in the income base is not associated with the assignment of new tasks to local authorities, so the local authorities' income base has been restored quite significantly by decisions of the last few years. Question 4: 'The great dependence of national governments on central power does not contribute to the creation of motivational mechanisms to improve public governance at local level. Are and with what measure have you involved municipalities in creating different policies? What is the direct output of policy making? ' After the administrative reform, we have given additional functions to local governments and are looking for ways to further increase the decision-making power of local governments. The argument that there is little contact between state-level politicians and officials and local government leaders cannot be accepted. I dare say that this cooperation has improved considerably over the last few years. Municipalities and the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities are regularly involved in working groups of ministries created to develop laws and changes, namely the Working Group on Finance and Social Affairs, Environment, Education, Roads, Culture and Sport and ICT. Discussions are based on proposals from the Municipalities Association. In addition, a number of public forums have recently taken place to discuss topical government policies. And the last question: 'Administrative reform has been carried out. The government has given up increasing the financial autonomy of local authorities. Why is the position of Minister of Public Administration still needed? ' The task of the Minister of Public Administration is much wider than the administrative reform carried out and its follow-up activities. Development of local governments, regional development, government administration, state reform, state human resources policy, spatial planning, state assets and public procurement issues. Currently, the Ministry of Finance is essentially divided into two, with 137 people under the direct authority of the Minister of Public Administration and 740 people under the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U21	Questions for the Minister. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your answers and also for the fact that the change in the revenue base is planned for 2021. My question, however, is that you said that you had a much broader role to play. Tomorrow, we will also have one proposal on the agenda of the Riigikogu to the Government of the Republic on behalf of our group, which concerns dividing Estonia into two zones, so that it is possible to apply for more and more European Union support funds more effectively to those areas where socio-economic development is not what it is in Tallinn and the Tallinn region. Please tell me what you think of this idea. Is making such an upgrade or change in the head of our Ministry of Finance also your job?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U23	The Ministry of Finance is analysing this possibility. On Thursday, this topic was discussed in the government of the Republic of Estonia. It is precisely the conditions that the European Union has set for a more thorough analysis of this possibility that make it difficult, namely that there should be at least 800000 people in each region after the division. That's one question. Maybe there'll be an exception. However, the analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance showed that in a few years' time, I will not remember exactly the year's bill, if the new period begins and if we succeed in overcoming these restrictive conditions, this victory is actually quite small, i.e. up to EUR 10 million. However, this analysis is not yet complete and the debate on this subject continues. When I ask for my personal opinion on whether I think we should make absolutely every effort to ensure life in all places in Estonia, I will say: of course, this must definitely be done. However, if this is precisely the measure, there is currently no definitive clarity in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U24	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. I will continue with my question in the area of regional development, which is also one of your responsibilities, and I will ask. In order to harmonise regional development across Estonia, one of the measures was such that jobs in Tallinn should be taken out. How did this work in 2018? Have all the provisions and planned arrangements been fulfilled? If not, where are the shortcomings?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U26	Thank you. According to the latest data, this is as early as December, the circa 750 jobs have been taken out of Tallinn. By the end of this period of government, say, 3 March, there will certainly be a few more. We probably won't make it to 1,000, which was planned. The main reason is, of course, the complicated choice. Secondly, for all options, we will analyse the effectiveness that is reasonable. In any case, this is a regional policy decision. If I were to answer what my dream would be and how this process could go forward, then in all 13 counties, which are not Tartumaa or Harjumaa, we would be able to move at least one important state institution. In my opinion, we could make attraction centres for all 13 counties except Tartumaa and Harjumaa, where the share of state-paid jobs is very high, 44% and 23%, while in some other places it is 1, 2 or 3%. If we could do that, the process would be much more effective. Of course, if it was only on the basis of 'efficiency', we wouldn't be able to keep any jobs outside Harjumaa. So this is a clear regional policy measure and, in any case, it must be continued.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U27	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U28	Thank you. For years, municipalities have been struggling with the problem that they are increasingly given all kinds of responsibilities and tasks, while they are not covered by enough money and finance. It is still unclear, however, what exactly is the task of the local government and what is the task of the state. There's a lot of dark zone. Neither have the local government associations coordinated or approved the state budget for years, as their proposals have not been taken into account. Please refresh my memory and tell me how it was this year! You mentioned that cooperation with local governments and local governments has improved. What about this year's approval of the state budget by the local government associations?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U29	Thank you. This year we received approval, we negotiated with local government associations and they were satisfied with the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U30	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U31	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have highlighted in your answers the positive developments that emerged during the administrative reform. However, the administrative reform has also indirectly caused certain negative aspects and inefficiencies in the provision of some or other services to the citizens of their municipality. For example, in Setomaa, the last local family physician leaves, which means that people are randomly distributed among doctors. This, in turn, leads to problems that need to be resolved. What cooperation do you have with other ministers in the administration to discuss such issues and also to achieve better results?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U32	Thank you very much. We are working very actively together. Who is familiar with the government's working principles knows that most decisions are made as a result of a circle of coordination between ministries. If we now come to the concrete example of Setomaa, there are no more effective measures than the budget to manage the country. But with the budget, it's such a tricky thing that it requires an agreement. If you give money somewhere else, it usually means taking money from somewhere else. I think we just need to analyse together whether we share the money that we can collect in taxes, right, just and smart, and whether it goes for the things that really need to be done. I have visited virtually all the counties of Estonia several times during this nearly year and I am absolutely convinced that a reasonable increase in the budget of all local governments, for example, would not be a waste of any kind. But you can't do that without taking money from someone else. This is where the situation arises, that we just have to decide what we want, what our goal is, where we want to go. I also pointed out a little bit that the less local governments have so-called labeled money, the smarter decisions they can make on the ground. I think that all local authorities should be able to decide for themselves, for example, that they are giving up a service that is not considered so important in their area and that they are doing something else instead. It does not have to be that all local authorities provide exactly the same services in Kihnu, Missos and Sillamäe. Perhaps some people feel that they do not need a certain service; they would like to do something else, even something that may seem to be spattering from a central government point of view, for example, to keep a small school or kindergarten open, etc. The more local authorities can decide for themselves what they do with the money they collect, the sooner we reach a reasonable solution to the real problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U33	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U34	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! Three connected things. First of all, the division of Estonia's territory for the benefit of the European Union. You spoke about the great role of Tartu in regional development and I ask whether we should not treat Tartu and Tartu County separately, because its influence on South-East and South-Estonia, even Central Estonia, may be even greater than in Tallinn. The second issue is the removal of public-paid jobs. According to the current distribution, Tartu has been counted as an exit. Shouldn't we consider Tartu separately in future, so is Tallinn, Tartu and the rest of Estonia? And the last question: how can we overcome what has been reproached, even though I do not think that in a democratic country we can tell where we employ people, blue eyes, brown eyes or others, and how can we resolve the fact that employees are still going from jobs in Tallinn, Tartu and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U35	Thank you very much. To sum it up, what is the role of Tartu in Estonia. Recently, a survey of Estonian industrial sites was completed, involving more than 70 industrial areas. This survey carried out by Geomedia was, in a sense, catastrophic. In this sense, we all know that things are as good as things are in Tallinn and Harjumaa, but if we look at how other counties relate to Harjumaa in terms of industrial areas, then Tallinn and Harjumaa are a category A region, there are no B counties, not Tartu, and then there are C counties, where there are Tartumaa, Pärnumaa, Raplamaaa, Lääne-Virumaa and Ida-Virumaa, and the rest are already in category D. So while Tartu stands out for certain positive trends, it is certainly prominent among local governments as a centre of attraction, the study of industrial areas tells us that Estonia is concentrated in Tallinn. I have also heard such a discussion that if it weren't effective, we have such a small country, we are here in Tallinn and so on. I think that Estonia cannot afford this. That is why the same budget question arises, in fact, we should rather cut down on things that are useful, say, to the unbridled concentration of industry and the population in one region. On the other hand, although fighting against natural trends is expensive, life itself simply settles a few things. In fact, we cannot change the basic trends of the entire population of the world in order to develop politics only in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U36	George Island, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! I'd ask about the revenue base. Why has the reform of the local government's income base only shifted to 2021 and why didn't it get faster? Have there already been any concrete proposals for a revenue base reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U38	Thank you. Work is under way, preparation is under way, but the honest answer is that any change that increases someone's income also involves a loss of income. And when someone's income decreases, we have to think about whether we're prepared to reduce revenue at this rate. I myself believe that this trend is one hundred percent correct. And, of course, the pace could be faster, here I agree with you, but as I understand it, the result of this analysis was that it couldn't be any faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U39	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U40	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, With regard to administrative reform, this issue has been addressed little: national defence tasks and local authorities. Are there clear objectives, tasks, responsibilities and solutions for cooperation in population protection with the PBGB, the Defence Forces, the Defence League and crisis situations at local government level? Has this issue been addressed at all, and how has it been addressed during the administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U41	Thank you. This issue has, of course, been addressed. In general terms, I think that regional policy and the possibility of life, especially in border regions, are certainly of considerable importance in guaranteeing Estonia's defence capacity; there is no doubt about it. I know that the Estonian Defence Forces will certainly deal with this issue. When I went to re-studies two years ago, the leadership and everyone who did this made it pretty clear to me in one piece. But, of course, you have to ask the Commander of the Defence Forces first of all about detailed plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U42	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U43	Good manager! Good waitress! During the administrative reform the municipality of Kambja was welded together with the municipality of Ülenurme. The reason was very simple: Kambja's then mayor was the leader of the rebellious in Tartu County. Yet, the people of Ülenurme or Kambja municipality are overwhelmingly in favour of the preservation of Ülenurme, even the signs are still there. I know the government has discussed this. Is it true that your good coalition partners are Social Democrats and Fatherland, or one of them, against the restoration of Ülenurme? How's that for real?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U44	Thank you for your question. I've really been working on this. The name committee recommended leaving the name of Kambja, even after this referral. However, the reason why the government has so far made no decision or even no rejection of a referral is really that there is no political agreement. We've been looking for this. This political agreement has not only to do with Toompea, but it has to be between Toompea, the people of the state and the people of local governments. I have spoken to the parish elder about Ülenurme and Kambja, and they are familiar with the subject. I believe that this solution and agreement will certainly come about, but when, I can't tell you that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U45	A member of the Riigikogu has one question in case of inquiries. Thank you, Minister Janek Mäggi! I'm opening negotiations. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U46	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This topic, which is discussed today and which is called 'administrative reform', will probably remain the process of remembering this Riigikogu for the longest time. Although it had begun almost four years ago when Minister Arto Aas and his officials brought the draft developed in the Riigikogu, I did not imagine that this phenomenon, which had become a saying, 'The Riigikogu has become a rubber stamp', really exists and that it could be so bad. The so-called procedure in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was, unfortunately, that the government coalition at that time, under the leadership of the Reform Party, rejected not only the attempts of the oposits to get involved in this matter, but also the proposals of their own coalition members of all kinds. So this bill was passed as a law in almost the same form as it had been presented, except for the changes that Arto Aas brought in with his officials in the meantime. To date, it is clear enough what the result has been. It's been a lot of things. There have been such results, which can be said to have been good and positive, but other results are those that cannot be described in any way other than bad. There are a number of issues that need to be dealt with further. Let us perhaps begin by stating that what happened under the alias of the administrative reform should be called the reorganisation of the municipalities and their borders. This Finnish loan word 'administration' has no meaning whatsoever in this context. Can this be called reform? Today, the English language is spoken with great speed, and in English the reform really means any change. Historically, the word'reform' in Estonian has meant a major, major change that cannot be reversed. The last one was a property reform in restoring Estonia's independence. What happened is basically unwindable, even though no one is going to do it. What's been good? In my view, the most positive aspect is that the system of village councils inherited from the Soviet era, which in the meantime had been renamed parishes, is now over forever and will never come back. In the meantime, it was petrified, although the programme of action of the VII Riigikogu and Mart Laar's first government stated that the corresponding changes had to be made, but at that time there was neither volume nor strength. However, it is now over, so there has been an opportunity for any future change. Secondly, the system of Council time divisions, which became referred to as counties, is now so confused that its preservation is probably no longer possible and the question of the next few years is how to proceed. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U47	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U48	The prewar county system was quite different for us. There were counties that had just been created, such as Valgamaa and Petseri County, but there were others that had remained unchanged for at least the last 800 years, as is known from written sources, but probably even a thousand years away and beyond. The authors of the current amendment ignored the problems of Estonian history, cultural heritage and continuity. This is a question that obviously needs to be returned to, because it cannot be left to the technocratic authorities. Apparently the biggest positive change is the emergence of the Setomaa rural municipality, because after Petserimaa was broken down during the Soviet period and the eastern part was given to Russia or taken away, the remaining parts of Setomaa were divided into two districts and in a very unfortunate situation. This change was behind the unprecedented active and great support of the local people. There were other positive changes, I cannot read them out, for example, several artificially formed councils of the Soviet era were distributed according to the wishes of the people, etc. What was bad? I'm sure the preparatory work wasn't done enough. It would have been necessary to amend Article 155 of the Constitution in advance, which states that local government units are municipalities and cities. If this was not done, then it must be done in the future. The current situation is grotesque, hundreds of square kilometres of urban territory covering the wooded countryside, etc. It's totally anecdotal. The borders of the cities should have been widened so that the settlements around them, the urban settlements outside the city's borders, would have been involved. What else can I say? Experience of the issue of fire-extinguishment, as Mr Herkel said, is, in my opinion, that it would be good for the next governments to realise that the parts of the Ministry which draw up separate reform plans in this form are an extremely serious threat to Estonia's stability and future. If they are needed, they must be formed for a limited period of time for the performance of a specific task and possibly under the direction of a temporary, non-portfolio minister. I'm done with that. Reach out to the next Riigikogu formations to deal with these issues further!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U49	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U50	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A couple of remarks over here. First of all, the issue of correction of errors. In my opinion, this palette with very strange geographical boundaries, which, in the form of these forced-joined municipalities in Estonia, now came to the fore by the local government leaders to find so many partners that 5 000 inhabitants would necessarily be filled, indeed destroyed Estonian cultural history, destroyed the historical map of the parishes, destroyed identity. The consequences were in some cases grotesque. One of the most grotesque is probably the municipality we know now as the city of Pärnu, but it extends within very large boundaries behind forests, bogs and fields several decades away. The second is the municipality of Tori, where Sauga, which was directly integrated with Pärnu, was merged with the region further away. There, local residents have also initiated a process of converting this matter. In fact, this question of conversion is one of the litmus test of how local governments are now able to change the consequences of this reform themselves to make sense. In general, all ministers have come from a position such as not to put their finger very much on it. So in this sense, I do not see the need for the Minister for Reform. To be honest, I do not see the need for this ministerial position to implement the reform of the revenue base either. Yes, it is probably reasonable that some of these amounts are directly and directly available to the municipalities, so that they are no longer earmarked. Certainly, if this share of income tax increases, it will also be positive, but frankly, in order to implement this reform, I do not see the need for a separate minister. Now, speaking of this analysis, perhaps it really takes a four-year setback to assess everything that happened, a little more remotely and a little more impartially. But in this case, I think the most sensible thing is that the analysis is conducted at all politically and by those people who did not directly implement the reform themselves. So the analyst and the analyst who did the analysis can't be quite the same people. Because it can be assumed that this is probably not the basis of a fairly objective analysis, looking at, for example, this big, thick book on administrative reform, which is certainly interesting and where very important facts have been stored, but which is still based on the feeling that, oh, we did do a great reform. So there is no need for a special Minister for Regional Affairs or for a Minister for Public Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U51	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish for negotiations, nor does the Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U52	Now an inquiry by Külliki Kübarsepp, Enn Meri, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Jüri Adams and Ain Lutsepp. Krista Aru, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U53	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Good people's representatives! On behalf of six members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, we submitted an enquiry to our Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology. An inquiry is very important to all of us and, I think, has brought a lot of pride in the matter, it is Estonia as an e-state. There will never be any doubt about the state reform or administrative reform or some other new law that Estonia is an e-state. The overall development of our ministries, administrations and indeed our state reform is that we use our e-state services more efficiently, they free us from paperwork and give us more cost-based government. But our question is about the concern that the reputation of such a good image, a well-functioning Estonian e-governance, requires a great deal of work and attention and very smart people. I have read and studied the analysis prepared by the Riigikogu's own Monitoring Centre for Development in 2018, which shows precisely that there are stagnations, shortcomings and a number of issues in the development of our e-governance. So our questioning is, on the one hand, really borne by this knowledge, on the other hand, by the fact that we have problems that should be considered together and by the questions that should be answered together. First of all, can and to what extent do we have such a vision-based, far-reaching understanding of where this e-state is going, what it has to give people, how it has to improve the functioning of the country? However, do we not have two realities quite side by side: on the one hand, the desire, which is clearly driven by the trend interpreted by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and, on the other hand, the realization of this desire? However, neither the municipalities nor many public authorities, not to mention the private sector, are able to go along with this at all. Thirdly, does everything about e-democracy, such e-inclusion now have a limit or are we moving forward from here? One very serious and outstanding issue recently is definitely the use of our e-Governance experts. Can we make good and effective use of the knowledge that we have in the country itself in the interests of governance, state reform and the functioning of the state itself? We have a total of five questions here, these are all substantive, and I very much hope that if the Minister answers them, we will also have a better and more precise view of the situation of ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U54	Rene Tamm, Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U55	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank very much for this question and for more detailed questions. I think that dealing with the development of our e-state in this Chamber is very justified and, indeed, we will make the most of this opportunity. Estonia's e-state is never ready. It always needs to be developed. When I took office, I myself stressed from the outset that our user experience of e-services should improve. To this end, there should be greater cooperation with the private sector and involvement as an innovation player. We need to better ensure the reliability and security of the systems, even in the case of the recent case of the ID card. Of course, our e-state is still at the forefront of the world, both in terms of the foundations established so far, whether digital identity or data exchange capabilities, and in terms of the use of our numerous e-services. This is confirmed by my personal experience and conversations with my colleagues in the world's leading e-governance countries, as well as international comparisons or media coverage from leading publications. I am sure, however, that we should move to the next level of our e-governance services. Some new projects have recently started to do this. One of these is certainly the development of event services, which should lead to a new level of user experience. Things should be driven invisiblely and at once, so we can clear up e-services around the events of a person and a company and make it as comfortable as possible. Another very important development is certainly the application of artificial intelligence. At present, the country is developing a strategy that could be integrated by spring. If we now only have a few AI applications in the country, there are almost 50 in development. I believe there could be a big qualitative leap in our e-state user experience. The third issue, which is also close to my heart, is the development of e-government on a platform basis. I'll bring you a phone, an iPhone or an Android-based. Basically, our country could be like a platform for which developers offer new applications. This requires a whole set of assumptions. To make our data more accessible, we have launched a new Open Data Portal. It is also important that our e-services source code is open and accessible and that public sector information systems can be easily interlinked with those of the private sector. The government has recently decided and has a total of 118 million euros to contribute to the development and maintenance of services and systems over four years, both in the country's budget strategy and in this year's budget. I would like to mention the recently held e-governance hackathon, where we brought together about twenty institutions and IT companies to tackle the problem that the public authorities have put in place for them. Indeed, in a few days it was possible to develop ready-made solutions in cooperation between the private sector and the public sector to solve problems in the public sector. All these service providers and public authorities also have the opportunity to contact the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to get new applications into work. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will then also give concrete answers to the questions raised in the inquiry. Firstly, the implementation of the Information Society Development Plan. I would not quite agree with the conclusions made in this report, to which you also referred, as if the implementation of our information society development plan had been hindered. In November, at the government meeting, we approved a renewed information society development plan. This shows that progress is felt and clear in important areas. For example, the share of high-speed internet users has multiplied and the last mile solution should further contribute to this. The proportion of non-users on the Internet has decreased, the quality of public services has increased and the share of ICT specialists in total employment has also increased. I believe that if we look at the implementation plans and reports for the development plan, it will be nice to see that most of the priorities for the development plan have worked and progressed. Secondly, the IT strategy of local authorities and its implementation. The IT advice and competence of local governments are concentrated in the form of the creation of an IT support unit for local governments, which the state has financed. This support unit should essentially develop into a competence centre and be a partner for local authorities in setting up an IT strategy, coordinating the development of e-services and managing the provision of IT services. In the long term, it should be the local authorities' own competence centre, as this agreement has been concluded. We can see, of course, that the center needs manning and additional competence. However, cooperation between local authorities and a joint effort are certainly necessary here. I would point out that municipalities, like other public authorities, can apply to finance their IT developments from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications; these opportunities are still available. We also regularly advise the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on developments. We also advise this IT support unit; these plans have not changed or will not change in the future. Third, IT development prices. The functioning of our country and services has evolved digitally. If we change laws and administrative processes, we also need to change the respective information systems, both their configuration and their design. I certainly agree that more can be done here than more can be done, but I also point out that all the public authorities are responsible for IT developments on their own. At the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, we monitor the prices of IT developments and we can intervene with funding measures that are under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. At the same time, I say that IT developments are made from several sources, not just financing the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. One possible idea should certainly be to offer advice from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to IT service developers. For example, how to prototype, how to measure performance, how to introduce beta version, get feedback from users, etc. However, all of this would, of course, require the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to play an increasing role in this process. Fourthly, the failure of IT projects. MKM or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications coordinates the development of state information systems and e-services as a national sectoral policy designer. Specific initiatives are being carried out, as I have already mentioned, by the various authorities responsible for policy areas and services themselves. As I have already mentioned, I agree that the development of IT projects with a large impact and budget needs stronger coordination and monitoring. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and I personally are prepared to take more of this role. My officials also sent this proposal to all political parties for consideration in the context of the electoral programme. Finally, I am talking about the so-called one-window service and e-democracy. MKM coordinates the development of national information systems and e-services nationally. One important qualitative leap in e-services and in e-government user experience is the implementation of event services. This could improve user experience qualitatively over the next few years. With regard to e-democracy, I agree that this direction is currently clear without leadership and ownership. This role could include an institution that is led by the development of democracy, participation and inclusion. This may be the State Chancellery or the Riigikogu, for example, we can continue this debate. Thank you once again for the questions and I look forward to a meaningful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U56	Questions. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! The e-residency went out with a lot of noise and noise, and the known people were offered opportunities to do so. Can we already assess the benefits of e-residency to the Estonian state? Is there a reality behind this, or have only a few famous people become e-residents, but they don't really care about it at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U58	Thank you for this question. A very relevant and timely question, I'm sure. At the end of last year, we completed the introduction of e-residency 2.0. In this process, dozens of public authorities and professionals took part. As far as I know, the White Paper should also be available to members of the Riigikogu. Indeed, this process was very thorough and we thought through how to make even better use of the e-residency programme for the benefit of our own economy, how our companies could offer their marketable solutions or products to other countries of the world through the e-residency platform, as well as how to create greater value and better link e-residents with our country. By now, I believe that this programme has started quite well, we have over 50,000 e-residents who have set up more than 5 000 businesses in total. And if we look at the mere taxes on labour that have come from established companies, then the receipts of last year alone will cover all the costs that the state has made so far for this programme. The receipts, however, are growing monthly and quite fast. I believe that, if we look at the economic impact of this programme, it has now justified itself, but certainly efforts should be made to create even more value through the programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U59	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your answers. I am now asking about the development of information technology as a research and study course. IT disciplines are also one of our preferred areas for research and development. Have we, however, been able to apply enough of all the knowledge, resources and experts we have here and who are perhaps now more applied to study or research, precisely in order to unthink the architecture of the state's own e-governance, e-democracy at the appropriate level?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U61	Thank you very much for this important question. Indeed, strengthening the university's competence in this area is very important. I have also paid attention to this area myself. For example, a cyber competence centre has been set up which, in cooperation with universities and businesses, will develop this area more strongly. We have a pretty good expertise with European countries, but also with the wider world countries, and it needs to be further strengthened. I am pleased that, in the context of the state budget, funding in this area has been increased. More broadly, the problem may even be that our companies are so capable in the IT sector that they tend to buy out universities with good experts. In this respect, new programmes should certainly be offered. With the ITC Development Programme, we offer funding specifically for both recruitment and the development of programmes in universities. I believe that we can do this even better, especially with regard to the area of artificial intelligence, but also, for example, the development of e-state on a platform basis. Here, I think, more could be done than before. I would point out that the obligation to provide open data was already on the part of public authorities since 2012, but not much has been done in this regard in the past. Now I will certainly make an effort to ensure that it finds more implementation and development.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U62	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Increasing productivity has been important in the development of information technology; it has been developed as a tea. At the same time, the digitalisation of industry has been mentioned and highlighted. What has been the result here, let's say, of what progress has been made? And what of this purpose, how is it, to be said, applied?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U64	Thank you. A very important question. Indeed, the implementation of ICT in our manufacturing industry is extremely important. Our processing industry accounts for two thirds of exports, which is why the application of technology in this area really is an important issue. A new digital audit solution was implemented at the end of last year. From EAS, companies can apply for state support in order to carry out digital diagnostics on the new digital technology that could be applied to industrial companies. There are already a number of positive examples. I have also visited a number of companies that have gone through this myself. This has helped them to identify potential efficiency sites and to make new longer-term investments. I believe that we will see even more gains from this in the future. This solution was developed in cooperation with our Association for Information Technology and Telecommunications, an industry panel of experts who advises me on these issues, but we can certainly move forward from here as well. One of these options, as well as the solutions under way, is to deploy pilot plants this year. It should provide support to companies that have carried out digital audits and now want to apply for public support so that they can make these investments. I also changed the terms and conditions of the industrial loan with the generous help and support of KredEx. This, again, I think, is a pretty good solution that encourages investment. If in the past it was possible to apply for money only for production technology, then now it is also available for software solutions. This is certainly an area in which we must make a serious effort, and I believe that there is a great deal to be won by our industry. It's kind of an industry-4. The 0 perspective where we use intelligent machines. There are currently some leading companies in Estonia that have moved strongly in this direction, but we really want to see that this is a broader trend.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U65	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U66	Mr. Minister! If as an old man I get to listen to you, for example, I'm trying to figure out what you're talking about. I usually translate into English in an unfamiliar word to understand. I suppose when you talk about experts, you mean experts, and when you talk about expertise, you mean knowledge and skills. But I noted, if I heard correctly now, at least two words that I couldn't even understand on that road. You used a word like "event service." And the other thing was 'political'. What are these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U67	Event service is a novel way of providing e-government services that brings together e-state services around the events of a person or a company. Let me give you an example: the birth of a child. When a child is born into the family, the family receives a letter congratulating them on this happy event, information about the state's registration of the birth. It also asks what kindergarten name will be, what kindergarten the child wants to register in, an overview of the benefits to which the family is entitled, and whether they want to receive these benefits for this current account In this way, we have mapped out the life events of both businesses and people, and we want to start offering e-services to which people are entitled more conveniently. I believe that this really improves qualitatively the user experience that our citizens and businesses gain from the e-state. Your second question was about the policy area. Here I am thinking of a specific administrative policy. Perhaps for a moment it is necessary to recall the context in which I used the word, but mostly I still mean administrative policy, specifically this policy area.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U68	Enn Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'll come back to the e-residency again. It has been duly praised, but there are also certain risks, particularly money laundering and other, say, non-legislative activities. Do you see these risks? If you see, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U70	Thank you. This is a very important issue. When we talk about non-residents in general, e-residents are also one possible group of non-residents. E-residents are undoubtedly more convenient customers for our banks than other non-residents. The process of becoming an e-resident is preceded by a background check and therefore the banks are more susceptible to them. This is confirmed by both the Financial Supervision Authority and the Police and Border Guard Board. There are certainly risks in relation to money laundering, and there was also a strong focus on this issue in bringing together the e-residency 2.0 proposals. Here, for example, countries are divided into risk groups, and a certain correction has been made. If we still do not have certainty about the background of the person, then there is no need to allow e-residency. So we must undoubtedly pay attention to the prevention of money laundering. I believe that we will achieve a good result in implementing these proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U71	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am now ruining this enjoyable debate by bringing in an unpleasant subject, which was also marked on matters, but which was not stopped at length. It's a SKAIS2 development. What's the state of it? Who is responsible for the failures that have occurred over the years during its preparation? What are the financial volumes? How can we avoid such failures in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U73	Thank you for that question. I think this raise is important. As I said, the authorities in the field, the public authorities, are responsible for their development. I have proposed that this situation should change in the future, i.e. larger projects could be coordinated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In this respect, quite a few mistakes were made in planning development, it was too much development, and the project was also poorly managed. Finally, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications itself intervened in this and no longer provided funding from the euro funds that we manage. So, as I said, major developments are all coordinated by our public authorities now, but in the future it could change. My ministry and I are prepared to take greater responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U74	Johannes Kert, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U75	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! In your presentation today, you have touched on the development of artificial intelligence on several occasions. It is quite clear that if we want to increase productivity in industry, this is an important issue. Wouldn't it be time for a certain intellectual effort and articulation to write an artificial intelligence strategy that takes into account Estonia's possibilities and needs and shows directions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U76	Thank you for that question. I am pleased to announce that such a strategy is already under way. Let us hope that it will be completed in the spring of this year. And it is certainly important for this strategy, on the one hand, to look at the opportunities that might arise from the application of artificial intelligence, but, on the other hand, to make ourselves aware of how we, as a state, as a society, would be better prepared to implement artificial intelligence, particularly from the point of view of further training and retraining. There are certainly new, interesting, exciting services and solutions that we will receive from the application of artificial intelligence. As I said, already today, public authorities have almost 50 new AI applications in development. I also mentioned that in December there was an e-governance hackathon, which I initiated, with several applications in the presentation, such as the legal assistance robot proposed for the Ministry of Justice, based on machine learning or artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U77	Thank you, Rene Tammis, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Good people's representatives! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for these meaningful answers, from which we could also hear much new, such as the same strategy of artificial intelligence that is already being drafted, but of which the Riigikogu, as has just appeared, would have been very happy to have heard about it before. What else was very pleased about? It was very pleased that developments and new things were, however, to some extent thought through the coming of the same artificial intelligence tomorrow, perhaps coming in our lifetime, the same platform base, which is probably going to apply. What I would like to wish for more here is the same awareness in the Riigikogu that, as part of the e-Governance theme and e-democracy, more could be discussed, discussed in this Chamber, perhaps in some ways critical assessments have been heard, but this is one part of the process. I agree that the information society development plan has certainly not failed a hundred percent. But what is the question? The question is, above all, that a person who is not so much in this area and for whom this entire e-government service platform should make things easier, better, clearer and faster is often forgotten. However, all these services have been designed and their architecture has been designed precisely to serve people better. However, if the other party, the person who needs the service, does not understand it, it can often lead to a lack of understanding and confusion. This may also result from the blurring of the image of the e-state among us, because people ask why we need it and say that the old paper is much more secure. Explanation work, speaking, making this whole e-state service clear is one of the important things that we have done badly or partially. This is also reflected in the information society development plan. Local authorities are very important centres of power in terms of the functioning of our country as a whole. In the case of local governments and local governments, it is not often a question of no money. Let us be honest that counsel is actually needed. Someone is needed to help choose in this highly diverse and multi-faceted software platform when designing something for their municipality so that it is clearly their own. This particularly seems to be the need for knowledge and advice throughout this e-procurement environment, because it is also necessary to know very well what you are organising in order to carry out the e-procurement well and precisely as it is intended. Not only do you need to feel what you want to do, but you also need to feel how to do this procurement in an e-environment. E-democracy is an area that needs a clear leader. We are very pleased that the Minister has made it clear that he is prepared to lead it. What was unfortunate, and what would I rather have said more about, is the dissipation of responsibility for the large projects SKAIS1 and SKAIS2. The process and design lasted for so long. How could the state stand by for so long and keep adding money without actually having the result it wanted? It doesn't make any sense. All of us really welcome the completion of the digital audit and see that Estonia still has a great deal to do in the area of digitalisation of industry, because the unachieved victory in the field of industry and in the whole area of business inclusion will not succeed as quickly as we all would like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U79	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. The minister doesn't have one either, I understand. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U80	Free mike. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U81	Dear fellows! Estonia has become a country of destination for immigration, a normal country of destination for labour migration. Last year, residence permits were issued, as always in thousands, while short-term work permits received nearly 20,000 people, while a year earlier, these permits were issued only around 7600. About three-quarters of short-term work permits went to Ukrainian citizens, who came to Estonia twice as many last year as people for temporary work. By the way, in 2017 more than one fifth of all work permits issued in European Union countries were granted to Ukrainian citizens. However, we are still one of the most flattering destinations for them. More than three quarters of Ukrainians come to work in Europe and very many of them come temporarily, through temporary agency agencies. Estonia does not actually set a limit for temporary short-term labour. You know what is very likely to happen to this ordinary Ukrainian working person in Estonia? As soon as he gets permission and has the right to work for a short time, he'll start to spin. There will be no contract of employment, although it will be concluded in Estonian and will not be translated. The salary is paid in cash and often only for the first month. Not to mention the situation where foreign workers are rented housing for their own money, and very often it is just a mattress. All of this is actually illegal, but people from Ukraine or other third countries who have temporarily come here do not know our laws. Of course, we have the Labour Inspectorate, it can be addressed, but the application must be made in Estonian. The labour dispute is, of course, also in Estonian. Where, though, should this short - term Ukrainian worker, who has not even been paid, take an interpreter? Of course, the vile capital is rubbing hands on this spot, he gets his construction cheaply, profits are rising, the Ukrainian worker is finally going home. New people will come with the same trust, and all the crap will start all over again, the wages will be low, the working conditions will be minimal. Basically, we're building a country with slave labour right now. This is what we are giving Ukraine the opportunity to be exploited in Estonia. Among other things, given the long-term experience of immigration in Western Europe, this problem does not improve in itself, but only extends to other sectors. Such working agency companies, mostly Polish, are an effective means of circumvention for all companies that do not want to sell innovation, as good a product or service as possible, but profit from stripping the worker's skin. Migration policy is not made at borders or with immigration quotas, but with administrative means of control. Migration policy is made on the labour market. There is no use hanging on the gate with the "no entry" sign when the sky flashes the neon script, "A cheap labour is needed." Immigration is a class struggle, immigration is managed and suspended as we wish on the labour market. It is not borders that need to be made safer, it is working conditions. Do not be blinded by the fact that unemployment is low in Estonia and we cannot do without foreign labour. 5% unemployment means that 5% of people in Estonia who would like to work will not find a job. There are tens of thousands of them, much more than temporary workers coming in from Ukraine. The people of Estonia cannot find a job in our labour market for an honest wage. If we do not make changes to the Employment Contracts Act immediately, if we do not give the employee more rights, if we do not allow interpreters to turn to the Labour Inspectorate, then Estonian workers will lose first, because their pay will never rise and the working conditions will not improve either. The workers of Ukraine and other countries will also lose because they will prove to be treated inhumanely. It turns out that Estonia is not an honest free European country. So, in the end, honest Estonian entrepreneurs who simply wish to offer the best possible service or product will lose their rightful competition and pay fair wages and listen to their employees. By the way, temporary agency work should be banned both for us and for Europe as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-14_U82	Monday's session is over. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4.46 p.m.
