ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 8th working week. First of all, there is the possibility of handing over drafts and enquiries. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiates a draft law amending the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U3	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. I have adopted a draft on behalf of the Bureau. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes this in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 88 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 13.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, attention! Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, amending the 'Constitution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe's Estonian delegation'. I would like to ask the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Enn Front. I remind the members of the Riigikogu that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask the rapporteur one oral question and only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented this draft on 16 October. This draft provides for the appointment of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe as an alternate member of the Estonian delegation from Vilja Toomas. No amendments were tabled by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Management Board on 31 October. The Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions: to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that 95 drafts be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 12 November and the final vote on the draft. The draft of the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U6	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There's no call. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe', as submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, draft 95. Please take a stand and vote. 86 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U7	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Estonian delegation' tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mr Enn Peemaa, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented this draft on 16 October. The draft provides for the exclusion of Mr Jaak Madison, a member of the delegation, and for the appointment of Mr Urmas Reitelmann as a member of the delegation. The deadline for submitting the amendments decided by the Riigikogu Bureau was 31 October, and no amendments were tabled. The Committee on Foreign Affairs made the following procedural decisions: to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that 96 drafts be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Tuesday, 21 November and the final vote on the draft. The rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is Enn Frontland, chairman of the committee. So much so that, if you support this decision, the composition of the Estonian ENPA delegation after the decision was taken would be as follows: the head of the delegation is Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski, the members are Eerik-Niles Kross and Urmas Reitelmann and the alternate members are Raivo Tamm, Indrek Saar and Vilja Toomast.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U9	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U10	Thank you. Mr. Frontland! The exchange could be made in such a way that rhetoric certainly does not get any worse, but this institution is dealing with the protection of human rights. The problem is that the new member has, above all, excelled in human hatred and human rights violations. Did it come up in the Commission that maybe the content of this person's message is not exactly what is expected in this organization?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U11	Good colleague! I'm sure you're very right. Indeed, the main tasks of the Council of Europe include what you mentioned, but it also has a duty to defend pluralist democracy. I think the person we're discussing right now is a pattern example of what we're really supposed to protect. It is not necessary to have all the ardent advocates of this organisation in this organisation; it is important to have a pluralistic approach and meaningful debate; of course, it is a matter of which rhetoric this is done. So I agree with you in part, Jürgen, but in that sense, I thought it was necessary to upgrade you. However, when it comes to whether we discussed this issue, it is rare to have a long time. The Committee on Foreign Affairs usually takes its decisions in a consensual manner, without very long consultation, given that all political groups have the right and obligation to submit their candidates to these delegations. Our Commission has the right, and also the duty, to approve, approve and bring these candidates here to decide on the large hall or to discuss them. We specifically discussed the question of Urmas Reitelmann on 7 October and 10 October. Urmas Reitelmann answered the questions and also gave his opinion on his future work at ENPA. We finally voted, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs supported Urmas Reitelmann's candidacy by a narrow majority.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U12	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U13	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I myself, Enn, agree with everything you said that the political groups have responsibilities and rights. But after this committee meeting and voting, I had, like, a black conscience or uncertainty that we would not suddenly harm Urmas. I listened to an interview after the Kuku Radio interview, where Urmas said that ENPA was a pointless chat room, and then it suddenly occurred to me that maybe we're forcing or the faction is forcing him to go to a place where he doesn't really want to go and what he thinks is a meaningless chat room. What do you have in mind? Didn't you get the impression that maybe we were gonna hurt Urmas?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U14	In part, I answered your question by answering Jürgen Ligi's question. We discussed it. I also spoke to Urmas Reitelmann alone. My first question to him was, "Do you, Urmas, want to become a member of the ENPA? ' His answer was, 'Yeah. " Several other questions came from there. However, as regards the fact that if he goes to these sessions as a member of the ENPA delegation, not as the head of this delegation, and if he has not said in some of his interviews (which I, indeed, have not heard myself) that there is not much sense in these discussions, I would like to hope that Urmas Reitelmann's involvement will have more meaning in these discussions. Our delegation has three members and three alternates, a total of 630 members in the Assembly. How much of the opinion of one member of the delegation can promote, hold back or hinder the entire work of the Assembly, that is a matter of its own.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U15	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U16	Thank you. Good Enn! In response to Jürgen Ligi, you used pluralism as a fig leaf for this very bad decision. In response to Jürgen, somehow you said that this is, above all, the thing that we should protect. These statements by Reitelmann, in my opinion, are, and I think, in your opinion too, are in no way acceptable in today's European society. I'm going to give you a chance to correct yourself. You don't really think that insulting and humiliating people on the basis of group membership and racism are the kind of views and thought patterns that we should defend first and foremost?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U17	It's not weird, it's symptomatic that I largely agree with today's questioners. As regards the protection of pluralism, I stressed that the Council of Europe's main tasks include the protection of pluralist democracy in all its statements, particularly, of course, during the sessions to which our delegation is going. In addition, all the alternates are welcome to these meetings, but we have three votes so that three people can vote. As far as rhetoric and choice of words are concerned, I will not say what I think of this matter, even though I am prepared to do so. I will respond with the words of Urmas Reitelmann, who attended our sitting and with whom I spoke, as I have already mentioned, in private. He regretted his expressive form of expression in several interviews and statements, and he explained why. He said at these meetings, as they used to say, he would never do that again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U18	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U19	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr President of the Commission. I was somewhat surprised that when you gave a presentation on such an important subject, which has also attracted attention to the public, you did not hesitate to describe what was going on at the meetings of the Commission. If you can, please do so and open up to whoever voted for and against this decision. But when you answered the previous question, you said that you were also personally prepared to say in the end why you support this decision, which actually violates one of the fundamental principles of our foreign policy, or the value basis of foreign policy. It is very difficult to talk after decisions such as those made by the Commission that we are sticking together and standing precisely behind these values-based principles. Tell me what made you finally change your decision about Reitelmann, even though he has not really apologized in public for what he said.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U20	There have also been many later comments and statements about this apology. As far as my starting point is concerned, I want to say so much that it consists of the right several parts. One is certainly a personal decision, in which hope for the future also plays a major role. The second part, the elusive part, is definitely solidarity with the decision of the coalition partner. When we had our first discussion on 7 October and I saw what the general course of thought was, I said, 'of course, the Members of the Commission will agree with me when I say that I have never tried to influence the members of the Commission towards a certain decision to the chair of the EKR Group, just that we had a rather heated debate, and I proposed once again to consider the decision of the group, adding that, of course, I am not the person who is trying to influence this decision. EKRE, I hope, discussed this issue in the group, and they stayed with this candidate. As far as our discussions are concerned, you're right, they were very thorough. The result of the vote was 7: 6. Once again, I did not go this way to try to influence the Members of the Commission to vote in one direction or another. Not only did I say that I would go this way, that I would communicate with the members of the Commission, not by influencing them, but by explaining their position. More specifically, without mentioning the names, I can say that a representative of the opposition in our committee also said at these meetings that he did not think it was entirely our task to discuss the proposals of the political groups very thoroughly. He made it clear in many ways that he was going to vote against this decision. One member of the coalition was quite close to thinking that he was not sure whether he could support this decision. I spoke with both Members and I was quite sure that this decision, which was expected by the EKRE Group and also by the coalition, would receive support in our committee. However, the collective sense and foresight of our group and also of the coalition foreshadowed what I did not foresee very precisely: one of our members of the Commission at the moment when we made the final decision was simply absent from the committee meeting and, instead of being a free voter, was an alternate who acted in full respect of the role of the opposition member. So the exchange, or rather the addition to the new member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, was a'relatively last-minute decision', but it was entirely legitimate, because otherwise the Riigikogu Board would not have approved this proposal. That was the situation. We discussed this topic on 7 and 10 October, and Urmas Reitelmann answered and explained the questions. So much more, indeed, that it was proposed at the meeting on 10 October that I did not prevent it, but that we put it to a vote so that we bring two draft decisions on the same delegation in the Chamber. Since the candidacy of Vilja Toomast was not a problem, we decided to bring it to the hall separately. Urmas Reitelmann's candidacy gave rise to discussions, several questions and positions, and it also went to the hall separately. In the end, as I said, the vote of 7: 6 confirmed that decision. Its future destiny is in your hands, ladies and gentlemen. The speeches of the members of the political groups are still to be made. Urmas Reitelmann, who is in the hall, will certainly be able to speak and, if he wishes to speak, he will be able to speak in response or even on behalf of the EKRE Group in order to express his opinion in the large Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U21	Is it a procedural question, Mr. Randpere? A microphone for Mr. Randpere, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U22	Of course it's procedural! Marko Mihkelson asked if he could find out who voted and who said what. Enn replied with some anonymous comments that basically one of the opposition and one of the coalition. May I ask, does the Presidency have any view that if names are asked and anonymously answered, have the rules of procedure been followed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U23	Thank you. Procedures have been followed in every way. I can calm you down. The rapporteur shall respond on the basis of his best knowledge; he shall have records of the meetings held. So everything is in accordance with the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, we can proceed peacefully. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U24	Good manager! Good Enn! I have no doubt that Urmas Reitelmann is a very suitable and dignified candidate for this position. He is an Estonian patriot and has been a long-term communication manager of the Defence League, who will certainly stand up for Estonia's interests in ENPA with dignity. But how do you feel about sticking labels of left-wing liberals, such as racism, people's hatred, fascism, etc., which are punched in the forehead, not being a little overstretched or overly emotional? Maybe everything's gonna be okay in the work process.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U25	Dear Urmas! I'm a liberal too. If I'm a left-hand liberator, I'd like to discuss that. Sticking on labels is certainly one of those who do not support it. At the same time, I am the first to realise that if some of the statements go "over," it will lead to counter-consultations and reactions, which are perfectly clear in a democratic free society. Ultimately, on this issue, we will decide together in a few minutes. As regards the trust of voters and the final decision of voters, which is most important, given the future, their decision will certainly be based on a wide range of sources.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U26	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Well, if someone uses the expression 'normal human trash' or 'parasitic chicks' for other people, I don't think saying 'raceism' about it would be tagging. Tagging was still what preceded it. But that's not what I wanted to ask you about. My question was motivated by the fact that you said you were not sure how much depends on one particular person. I find that very much depends on this person, who he is, whether his voice becomes heard, whether his influence is great. We all know Tatiana Ždanoka, for example, but this is certainly not a positive celebrity. I therefore ask whether, as head of your Committee on Foreign Affairs, good Enn Front, you are certain that this delegation, with such a leader, represents Estonia in the best possible way, and are you sure that ENPA is not a meaningless chat room, as Urmas Reitelmann said on 10 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U28	Some prominent men have recently said quite badly even about NATO, yet we do not draw very far-reaching conclusions from it. Of course, when it comes to whether one person can influence, that is the case. But it's not black and white either. Besides, I am based on what Urmas Reitelmann said at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and he also told me that he intends to follow and recognise the Estonian foreign policy line and be a team player in the ENPA. Like I said, we have three delegation members and three alternates. If my colleague, a colleague for years from many areas of life, tells me this, then my first reaction is not a doubt, but I trust it. If this trust is being abused in any way in the future, then there will also be opportunities and means to make adjustments within the delegation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U29	Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U30	I supported Mr Toomas, a member of the Reform Party, and I see today that ladies and gentlemen of the Reform Party want not to support the representative of our group. My procedural question is whether it is possible to take your voice from behind the support of Vilja Toomas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U31	Thank you. This is indeed a procedural issue, but such a possibility is not provided for in the domestic and operational procedures. Once you have voted, you have voted, made your decision and can no longer withdraw it. Jürgen Ligi, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Does the Rules of Procedure also provide for the rules on sausage trading that my colleague has just mentioned? Is it possible to read something like this out of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U33	Thank you. No such procedure is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Let's keep going. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U34	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I would like to examine some of the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Not the meaning or nonsense of this, but it is certainly that during the work, the members of the Estonian delegation will receive various information and very useful information, and they should share this information with society as well. It is now the case that the candidate currently under discussion has expressed in a very impressive way that a certain part of the press cannot communicate with him. I ask whether the members of the delegation are also obliged to share the information they have received with society and how it is possible, then, that a candidate who is not ready to share this information and is not prepared to communicate with the press or to communicate with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U35	ENPA is an organisation with which I have a very personal relationship. I was the correspondent and reporter of Estonian Television on 14 May 1993, when Estonia became a member of the Council of Europe. I did a half-hour show on Estonian Television that day. I interviewed the then Estonian representatives there; I also interviewed the then ENPA and the President of the Council of Europe, Catherine Lalumière, for a relatively long time. So I've been familiar with these things from the start. As far as the organisation of work and communication with journalists are concerned, it is practically impossible for us to say in advance what one or another member of the delegation, or an alternate, will say to journalists. I come back to the answer, where I quoted Urmas Reitelmann, who has said that he definitely wants to play a team game. Perhaps when our positions are known, our decision is known, he will not make any different comments according to his word and promise. The way it's gonna be, it's time, of course, but that's the promise. I belong to those who, on many occasions, are willing to give a person another chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U36	Peter Ernits, a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U37	Good manager! My colleague Ligi was talking about sausage trading here, and my question is: is it good practice to call a woman from my political group a sausage?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going a long way from the procedure. Let us focus on the agenda and on the item on the agenda. I have a suggestion that we move on. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U39	Honor the President of the sitting! Good waitress! I don't care about sausage, I have a very specific question. Do you agree with me that a member of this assembly whose task is to defend democratic values should not be a person who does not respect democratic values?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U40	Of course! Of course, this is one of the main tasks of the Council of Europe and, of course, of the Parliamentary Assembly. In addition, there is, of course, a desire to develop political partnerships with the new democratic countries of Europe. There are other principles. From the background of this question, I can see that, specifically, Urmas Reitelmann is not the person who is willing to defend these values and to perform accordingly. I can respond, not by using my words, but by using Urmas Reitelmann's assurance that he is working on the basis of Estonia's foreign policy course and also on the basis of the decisions taken by the Estonian delegation before the sessions. That's my answer. But basically, I agree with you. The person who actively promotes something like this or in his interviews and speeches says something that can be handled in the way you said it is definitely not the right place. However, I would like to remind you once again: the impressions that Urmas Reitelmann has said in his interviews in previous years are not quite adequate to influence today's decision. We must draw more on what his position is now, perhaps even today, here in this sitting. As I have once said, you have a complete opportunity to listen to Urmas Reitelmann. It is not my job to be the protector or prosecutor of Urmas Reitelmann; I represent the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U41	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U42	Thank you. Good Enn! On 26 October, Yana Toom wrote: "In addition, Urmas Reitelmann intends to undermine the system from the inside. Drives Reitelmann to Strasbourg, opens his mouth... This reminds me of Varvara Morozova, a Russian anecdote merchant, whose son Arsen built a peculiar house waved in Moscow, and when the old lady finally came to see it, she said: "Before I knew you were stupid, now all of Moscow knows it! ' So, because you're xenophobes and Nazis, we've heard it before, but now it seems believable... However, if Reitelmann was awarded the first prize by voters who shared his convictions, then he could receive the second from those who do not share his beliefs, but are guided by the principle of the consensus of the government coalition. It doesn't matter. I say 'for nothing', although I don't consider myself a moral beacon, far from it. I just find that the insults that I, as a politician, have to swallow do not have to make my constituents nauseous. I hope that this reasoning will also be understandable for some of those who, like Reitelmann, should vote in favour of party discipline. Maintaining the coalition is undoubtedly important. But who said it was more important than preserving dignity? ' Do you agree with Yana?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U43	First of all, thank you, Hanno, for bringing up this quote! I admit that I have not read the text. I will monitor the performance of all my party associates, as far as possible. Yana Toom is definitely part of our party's elite, but I have not seen this statement or this post specifically. Yana has every right to an opinion. Start analyzing it now and point out what my opinion on this opinion is, I think, not the right time or place. Yana's probably right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U44	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U45	Thank you, good manager. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I also had the opportunity to attend this meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. You began this session with a statement, you might say, an apology that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been appointed as the seventh member. Before, the balance was 6: 6. In order to resolve this situation, you said it was not your wish, you did not submit this request for a new member to be made, but 'this person is appointed to me from above'. Perhaps, for the sake of the verbatim report, you will mention who is the highest party who then appointed this Member of the Commission to you from above.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U46	Part of it, Echo, I'm sure I've already answered that question. I was based on the fact that we could consensually confirm the entire list of Urmas Reitelmann and Vilja Toomas. It turned out pretty fast, it's not possible. All things have to be taken into account in democratic matters. It would get worse if the committee chairman, in particular, started to impose his opinion, hindered free exchange of views, etc. Indeed, as I said, I was sure that we would get this issue, and also the problem, because it soon became clear that it was a problem to solve in a slightly different way, in a diplomatic way, through negotiations that I described earlier. But once again, both the group and the coalition looked further, they also saw what I really did not foresee that the people with whom I had been negotiating would not participate in this session. Other alternates came, who were not involved in this, not in the promise, but in the assurance that they did not attach such importance to such a vote. That's the background. Yeah, well, I was thinking that we could handle these things between us. But the higher powers in this sense are in this case a collective mind that is in the group and in the coalition. Echo, this should be a very familiar approach to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U47	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! When you referred to pluralism and the need to protect it in Europe as a whole in your first response to Jürgen Ligi, I did not understand the role of Urmas Reitelmann in this. Do we need to protect pluralism or do we need to protect Urmas Reitelmann from pluralism? I am trying to understand whether this is an educational test, so that we should consciously put people in a position where, because of their previous rhetoric, statements and attitudes, they really should not fit. My question is this: if we send out delegations representing the whole of our country, isn't this a little wrong place for such pedagogical education?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U49	In answer to Jürgen Ligi's question, I stressed that the Council of Europe's almost most important objective and principle of work is indeed to protect pluralistic democracy and human rights. Recalling this, I did not explicitly point out that Urmas Reitelmann should be the one who goes to the ENPA to protect these things, as very many people in this hall think. My reference was rather to the fact that defending pluralistic democracy should also mean that not only are everyone in the ENPA who thinks exactly the same, that there is also the opportunity to take part in the work for people who see some things differently. That was my reference. As far as this pedagogical or, say, doctrinal or experimental approach is concerned, I think that a person who is mature in middle age has already developed and can also change his opinions, above all, I hope, for example, on rhetoric. But the main thing I'm following is that the formation of foreign delegations and the submission of candidates for membership there is the right of the political groups. For these years, I have been a member of the Riigikogu for 16 years, and I have been mainly thinking back in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I can say that all those members of the delegations that have been presented by the political groups have not perhaps found 100% support in my soul either. But also then, I have come from the fact that this is the position of the group, the group has the right to present it or another person, and we have the right to accept it or not. But the bottom line is, if they were to find another person at our request, it would be to impose their will and will. We can show democratically, in this case, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in this large Chamber, our opinion and attitude towards this person. Now this solution has been made particularly relief. We normally approve the entire delegation with one vote; now we have two votes, one of which is already behind us and the other is ahead. Farther away, I believe, it doesn't make sense to go. I would like to remind you that I spoke to the Chairman of the EKRE Group and only said that, given these thoughts and the temperature in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, one more time to think about the candidate, but I did not mention in a single word that you would find a new person or that the one you have presented so far would not suit us. It wouldn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U50	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Here, the debate has now become a bit of a religious issue: one part of the hall believes that Mr Reitelmann's value scale moves like a wind flag from one edge to another, 180 degrees, the other half does not believe. However, I will continue with Marko Mihkelson's question. I'm sure you have the 10th-date protocols at hand. Could you please read out the names who voted for Reitelmann and who voted against him?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U52	Yeah, just a second. There's a lot of material. [[Browse papers.]] In favour of the vote in favour of Esemaa, Jufereva-Skuratovski, Kaljulaid, Kallas... It is the vote on this decision that we will vote on these decisions separately. Now I'm gonna find out where we voted on Reitelmann's candidacy. Reitelmann was supported by seven people: Esmaa, Jufereva-Skuratovski, Kaalep, Kotka-Repinski, Kruusimäe, who was Raivo Tamme's alternate, Lotman and Poolamets. The opposition was Kaljulaid, Kallas, who replaced Eerik-Niles Kross, Laane, who was Marko Mihkelson's spokesperson, you can see these movements are always in the hands of the Pentus-Rosimannus, Randpere and Saar. The Balance is 7: 6. Sorry that among the materials I first found the second or, rather, the first vote, with which I did a little too much for Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U53	Thank you. Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U54	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear Enn Frontland! I thank Annely Akkermann because I actually wanted to ask the same question. But since it has now sounded, I will turn to you, Enn, who are already in a rather difficult situation for the second time, and I have concerns that there may be more of these situations. Do you share my opinion when I feel confident that one of the coalition's parties will continue to consider it necessary to appoint the Commission's people whose convictions have previously been contrary to the objectives of the Commission's action?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U55	Dear Signe! I think that this entire hall and all the political groups will be able to make their own proposals on what is going on here today and what was going on during the debate and vote on the amendment of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation. When we discussed the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation, I also answered many questions. Those who can read between the lines certainly understood what I was thinking on some occasions, namely a little different than the general line I represent. This does not mean that these routes are very controversial. Peter Ernits thought it might be possible to take back the voice. All members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to withdraw, even to resign, when tensions become excessive. The Riigikogu remembers cases when it has gone away from this house because the tensions were too great. As an eldest member of the Riigikogu, I have quite a strong temper for several occupations as a pidan. But the main thing I want to answer is that I believe that all the political groups will draw their own conclusions from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U56	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U57	Thank you. Different political concepts are represented in the Riigikogu, from wall to wall, from national preserves to extreme vassals. Throughout the ages, all political groups have proposed their candidate for these organisations. As far as I am concerned, there has never been a situation where, on the basis of its own political agenda, a candidate for another party will be attacked, personalised, offensive, spoken of pluralism, but everything that is expressed and how it is expressed is far from there. In my opinion, this process, which has been drawn around Urmas Reitelmann's person, is very shameful and ugly. You have a longer experience. Do you remember ever having anything like this happen in Parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U58	I've only been a member of this community for 16 years. I do not recall that there were debates of this kind specifically on the appointment of foreign delegations. To put it this way, I do not want to express the view that these debates are 'in principle deplorable'. How, what kind of rhetoric it's done, that's a whole different thing. However, the members of the Riigikogu should be instructed either in this way or in the other way that they should behave either differently or think differently, at least in theory it should be excluded. In practice, there are sometimes trends that need to be monitored by both the opposition and the coalition. Once again, I think that a consolidated response could also be for you, Henn, that this whole hall, both today's opposition and the coalition, will certainly draw its own conclusions. But also in the future, even in ten years' time, when a political group presents one or another person as a member of an external delegation, I think that we should all agree that this group has every right to do so. Will we accept this proposal, whether we agree with it immediately, that is another matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U59	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U60	Good manager! Good waitress! There are five political groups in the Riigikogu, according to my reading, but what is the reason that two members from one political group, one "executive member" or a "member" and another "alternate," have been proposed by the delegation to "strengthen action"? Why did the Committee on Foreign Affairs decide that the Reform Party should strengthen its representation with two members?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U61	The activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have specific rules. While in many foreign delegations, for example, it is not so important how many men and how many women there are in the delegation, it is quite important in ENPA. The head of the delegation is Maria Jufereva-Skuratovsky, there were no more female members, that was one reason. The second reason is that, according to the rules of the ENPA, it is highly recommended to base the delegation on the proportions of the size of the political groups of the Riigikogu in this case, the proportion of political groups in the work of the Riigikogu. The largest group in this Chamber is the Reform Party. In suming up these two things, someone suggested that we not decide this way. We voted democratically, and the decision was clear that we would then offer three alternates and three main members, with 3 + 3 being provided for under the rules of the ENPA. We have very often been guided by the number of political groups we have. We have five political groups now, which is why this situation has arisen. However, as there are other principles in the composition of the ENPA delegation, we decided to consider this on the basis of a proposal from our fellow Members. We considered it and decided it. So at the moment, the delegation would be such that two women would be in this delegation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U62	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U63	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, On the one hand, you tried nicely to explain that delegations should have a pluralistic vision. On the other hand, as an experienced foreign politician, you certainly know that the credibility and reputation of our delegations depends very much on the members of these delegations. We are talking about the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe as a place that concentrates on issues of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. If there is a person in the Estonian delegation who has given a speech of hatred, who has disparageed minorities and refugees and has not explicitly rejected these words, how do you think this will contribute to the credibility of our delegation in the ENPA?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U64	Speaking of pluralism and defending democratic pluralism, I am thinking above all that, as members of the delegation, the people whose opinions are somewhat or even greatly different from perhaps the majority in this Chamber and in the delegation should not be excluded. That's what I meant. It's a two-way motion. If the Estonian delegation occurs in the next sessions with common positions, which they will work out together, it seems to me that this is not a very big problem as a delegation, not as its leader, but as a member, there is also a person whose statements so far have been different and different than perhaps many of us who we are in this Chamber. My starting point was that pluralism must be respected in this case too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U65	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As a so-called new member of the Riigikogu, I find it a little strange to listen to such, say, labelling and suitability issues. A member of the Riigikogu is known to be a representative of the people who have been elected in accordance with the Constitution to represent the people. The moment is important to me and all that matters is that this ambassador has a mandate for the people to act here. These reproaches now point out to the vigilante that certain contingents in this Chamber consider themselves superior to the will of the people. I don't know if that's a very steep conclusion or if I'm at all mistaken. How do you assess this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U67	I think it is certainly possible to understand this situation as you have just stated. However, we do not have to go very far into history in order to recall that on a much larger, perhaps even higher level, history remembers people who have been elected to the head of their country on a totally democratic basis, by a large majority, and their subsequent behaviour has proved that this was not the right decision. To say here that there is a rule that when a person has a mandate, he certainly does not have an indulgence in relation to everything going on in the future. After all, trust and future elections must be guaranteed by all of us in our daily work. I am currently talking very little about Urmas Reitelmann and I am speaking more generally, but Urmas Reitelmann, with his possible future work in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, shows and hopefully shows that his views coincide with the Estonian foreign policy line and coincide with what the Estonian delegation has decided jointly in the ENPA. If they are going to be very different from this main line, then first and foremost in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who regulates and monitors the work of our foreign delegations, and regularly also summarises this work, the possibility of discussing it and even calling into question the continuation of support for such a member. This does not mean that I have very serious doubts about Urmas Reitelmann's desire to do this work as he has promised me and also in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U68	Paul Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U69	Thank you. Good Enn! A moment ago, when you answered Peter Ernits' question, I was left to scratch a statement that I would just like to get an answer to yes or no. In fact, the argument was that the basis for drawing up the ENPA delegation is gender characteristics: depending on whether it is a woman or a man, this person may be a member of the delegation. So that's kind of a requirement. On the contrary, it can be understood that, in the absence of certain gender characteristics, it cannot be part of the delegation. Is that really so?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U70	Surely this is not the case. The question is whether a democratic organisation such as the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe fails, for example, to approve a delegation that does not have any women. Absolutely not. It's a suggestion, if you want it, it's a strong suggestion. In this respect, the composition of the ENPA delegation is different from that of many other delegations. So it is certainly not the case that if you do not have any women in the delegation, you do not have Strasbourg. Surely this is not the case. That is a recommendation and why not follow that recommendation. Obviously, both you and I are sceptical about all kinds of quotas. A person must be at such a level that we would be happy to send him there, and then look at the entire pattern of the delegation and think that we have few women there. This also applies to all political groups. But it is certainly not a categorical requirement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U71	Jürgen Ligi, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U72	Thank you. Mr President, it seems to me that it is the responsibility of the President, and indeed of the rapporteur, to recall the item on the agenda. How can this be done procedurally? The question is that it seems from the last questions that we have direct elections here to access the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, direct elections to the people. How can it be explained to the misguided members of the Riigikogu that the best or suitable people are currently elected from among us to represent us in defending human rights in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe? These are not direct elections to the Riigikogu, nor are they direct elections to this Assembly. In particular, Kalle Grünthal insisted that we should actually sort of get a mandate from the people to this organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U73	Thank you. As chairman, I am convinced that all members of the Riigikogu understand very well what item we are discussing. They have the creative freedom to ask their questions, and the respondent answers according to his best recognition and understanding. So we are fully in line with the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure, and we can proceed peacefully. Kalle Grünthal, a procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U74	Thank you, Mr President. I propose that the next time a member of the Riigikogu refers to procedural questions, he would refer specifically to which, say, procedural rules have been violated. The rules of our work process are laid down in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Then it would also be clear what process norm or procedural norm is being called into question here at the moment. In this case, it is simply a matter of asking an additional question by referring to the rules of the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U75	Honourable member of the Riigikogu! I fully agree with your proposal, but I do not see the questioner raising his hand and asking a procedural question as to what content the question will follow. On the basis of the rules of procedure, I have to give him this opportunity, just like you. But I have a suggestion to my colleagues that we are really trying to ask only procedural questions under procedural questions. Since there is a group of members of the Riigikogu who have more procedural questions than others, I have a proposal that these members may join and that we give them additional training. It's quite possible. I'll speak to the Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. Perhaps this will simplify and speed up the forthcoming sittings. But let's keep going. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, If it has already become personal here, I would say that, as we know, the delegation also includes Eerik-Niles Kross, a member of the Reform Party, whose dark past could also obscure the work of the delegation. He's been wanted by Interpol in connection with Arctic Sea, he's still known to be banned from entering the United States, and he's been involved in a lot of recent talk about his wife, Mary Kross, in a lying information operation. When discussing the composition of the delegation, could we also discuss the personal question of Eerik-Niles Kross: is he really suitable for such an important delegation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U77	Thank you for that question. I would hide the truth if I didn't say it was proposed. We jointly decided not to discuss the whole list again. My personal opinion is that the next time foreign delegations are put in place, there might be a tradition that the person who claims to be the head of a delegation on the proposal of a political group could indeed come to the Committee on Foreign Affairs to answer questions, even if there is no apparent problem. Moonika, your question and opinion highlight how difficult the Committee on Foreign Affairs is actually in the process of forming foreign delegations. We all have our past, and a lot of people are different now than they were maybe some time ago. They certainly include both Eerik-Niles Kross and Urmas Reitelmann.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U78	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? Raimond Kaljulaid, do you have the authority of any political group? [[R. Kaljulaid explains the floor.]] Got it. Raimond Kaljulaid on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U79	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party firmly believes that the decision to appoint Urmas Reitelmann as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is wrong, and we call on the ambassadors to vote against this decision in accordance with their conscience. I would like to draw your attention to the great efforts made in the Committee on Foreign Affairs (including opposition parties) so that we are not in the situation where we are today. As Enn Eesmaa said, when the Conservative People's Party of Estonia proposed Urmas Reitelmann as a member of the delegation, the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs very tactfully proposed to colleagues from the EKRE Group to change this decision in view of the issues and questionable issues that were inevitable. We called for consideration to be given to the wider interest in keeping Estonia's foreign policy credible, which can never be too much. We recommended that Urmas Reitelmann be found some other, better suited application, and that in the Council of Europe someone other than Urmas Reitelmann be implemented. Unfortunately, the EKRE did not take this opportunity. Then there was the opportunity to stand up for Estonia's interests at the Coalition Partners' Centre Party and Isamaa. I very much wanted to believe that the Centre Party and the Fatherland could not support our Russian-speaking fellow countrymen as parasites and representatives of other nations, even worse, by sending a politician to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to demand respect for human rights from Russia. Any thinking person will realize that this is an absurd decision. Absurd! But instead, the coalition secured a mechanical majority with questionable vangers. I want to apologize to Siret Eagle-Repinski here. I told you he wouldn't know the difference between Mali and Bali. Without a doubt, my criticism was completely misdirected. Today I understand that the problem is not that the members of the Centre Party and the Fatherland do not understand what they are doing, but that you understand and you do. So today's vote, ladies and gentlemen, as we like to say in Estonia, is very signicant. Very badge! Look, until this vote takes place, Urmas Reitelmann, our good colleague, is just a bit of a perverse representative of a group of the Riigikogu, a certain error message in the democratic process, so let's say a broken file resulting from the collapse of the operating system of our free society. We all understand in this hall that he doesn't fit into this role. But today it is not about who is Urmas Reitelmann or what is Urmas Reitelmann. It's who you are. The upcoming vote will describe most of the participants in this vote: whether you are one or you are zeros. We are free in our mandate, no one can be forced to support anyone's candidacy. You have the right to vote as you wish. You will be able to vote in favour, you will be able to vote against, and in both cases the voters will have the right to ask you, but why did you do so then? And believe me, they're gonna ask. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U80	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Marko Mihkelson Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that our debate today and the vote on the draft decision have more weight than it might seem at first sight to many. I said at the debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 7 October and I am saying here today that this is not just the appointment of a member of an external delegation. It should not be a struggle between the coalition and the opposition, although it may seem that way to many. This is a fundamental decision-making place for us to succeed in further securing a common foreign and security policy and maintaining the credibility of the values so often used in the implementation of this policy. We already experienced last week that the process of making such a customary and rather technical decision-making in the formation of the Riigikogu's external delegations is no longer self-evident. Although a good colleague, Enn Eesmaa, felt that one of the reasons for this was a very professional opposition, I think that this is, unfortunately, a more serious trend. In liberal democracy, one of the peculiarities of parliamentary diplomacy is the participation of politicians with different world views in international cooperation. It's perfectly normal. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has always stood for the proportional representation of political parties working in the Riigikogu. It has always been accompanied by a good recommendation to the political groups that their candidates should be presented taking into account their willingness and suitability to stand up for Estonia's foreign policy interests in the best way. There is not much room for error in Estonia's foreign and security policy in a geopolitically seismic area and at a time of international turbulence. The responsibility also extends to members of the Riigikogu who work in parliamentary assemblies. The word of the politician has power not only in internal politics, but at first sight it also affects the way Estonia is known internationally. It is therefore possible to understand why such terms do not fit into the traditional international image of Estonia or any other open society seeking coherence, and I ask for an apology in advance, I quote as 'three hundred thousand parasited chicks', 'comfort fritters','saast', 'human scum','socindly', 'communist drunk', the Head of State calling it a shitstorm, canals and much more. This has also taken place since this issue was discussed with my colleague, Mr Reitelmann, at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Commission gave Mr Reitelmann the opportunity to clarify his statements and to apologise for the obviously racist statements. He missed that opportunity. The coalition ambassadors also turned a blind eye and pressed the green button, as Enn pointed out in his performance. Raul Rebane, a strategic communication expert, said with great appreciation of the situation that developed in the commentary on national broadcasting: 'Reitelmann's choice accepted a new political vocabulary. The exception was granted to the rights of the norm. The daily policy was put ahead of values. ' What, then, can we do about it? To silence and acknowledge the validity of a new normality or, however, to ensure that basic ethical standards and dignity continue to be the standard in shaping Estonia's internal and foreign policies? It is difficult to disagree with the fox's conclusion: 'Non-response would be a normalisation of political communication madness. It's very dangerous, you might even say the penultimate line. From there, there is only a fist and a bat to convey its views. This means that when extreme methods are normalised, society will no longer have room for manoeuvre. ' Ladies and gentlemen, With all this in mind, the Reform Party will vote against this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U82	Thank you. Urmas Reitelmann on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U83	Dear Deputy Chairman of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen and more! I would first like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, on my behalf, that if someone feels that he has been severely insulted or subjected to a racist attack, you should remember that all honest people, as we know in the recent past, will go to the police and write a statement on it. But it was my short personal visit. Now I represent the Conservative People's Party. First of all, on behalf of the Conservatives, I would like to offer congratulations to the future president of the Socialists and express my sympathy that my colleague no longer has to suffer in the wrong body and, as the song verse says, has been freed. But now it's important. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Our security situation has changed dramatically. Our NATO ally Turkey, paradoxically, is today carrying out joint patrols with the armed forces of the country against whom NATO has been created. Not only does the other NATO country buy weapons systems from Russia. It makes perfect sense here when French President Macron expresses doubts as to whether Article 5 will start automatically. Clearly, Macron did not make it up in the Élysée Palace by bored himself, but based on the opinion of the French generals. Consequently, the French General Staff is also discussing this issue. A few days ago, Mark Galeotti wrote on Twitter that this signal, which Macron sent out for Russia, was certainly received with great attention and that obviously President Putin's administration would draw its own conclusions from it. As Galeotti wrote, these conclusions are probably not worth putting too much emphasis on the automatic activation of Article 5. The star situation is relatively alarming, and if President Macron doubts whether Article 5 will start or not, then we can ask ourselves and each other whether the President will give the foreign legionnaires Tapa a battle order if there is a need for it, or whether a general mobilisation will be announced in the Bundesveer if the Russian President calls the Chancellor and says that oh, well, what aggression it was against Estonia or Latvia or Lithuania, it is important that the gas flows, and that we guarantee it. Conservatives are clearly convinced that we must first admit to ourselves and then tell the people that Estonia's only security guarantee is the US. We must make maximum efforts, as Poland does, so that we can get units based here in Estonia and other Baltic countries on a permanential basis. This was also recently referred to by the Latvian Minister for Defence. We have a proposal to launch a debate and formulate guidelines for the government of NATO for the London Summit, and to act not only actively but also proactively in international organisations, in all delegations, both in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U84	Dear speaker, would you like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U85	I'm almost done. ... as well as ENPA. The Donald Trump Support Group set up by the Conservatives, by the way, wishes to be of great help here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U86	Thank you. A procedural question, Riina Sikkut!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U87	I wanted to ask whether you are sure that the speaker has understood that he is not going to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, but that the delegation he is joining is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U88	It was not a procedural question, but you can ask the speaker after the hearing. All right, ladies and gentlemen. A procedural question, please, Mr. Juske!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. If the waitress still misses the bill and the subject, it is up to you to draw attention to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U90	Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu are free to speak, to discuss points and topics creatively. The governing board of the Riigikogu is certainly not going to limit the content of the speech. A procedural question, Andrei Korobeinik!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U91	This freedom is entirely there, but was it just a speech on behalf of the group?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U92	Yes, it was a speech on behalf of the group. The political group has delegated this right to the person, and I believe that the EKRE Group is best and best prepared to assess whether or not this speech met the mandate. The rest of us don't have that chance. Looks like there's no more calls. There have been no amendments to the draft, and we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' of the Riigikogu decision '96. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 44 against and 1 abstention. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U93	Let's keep going. The third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the External Action Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I request Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U94	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the High House! The draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and related amendments to other laws was actually familiar to the previous Riigikogu as well, but the bill fell out of the procedure due to the termination of the work of the previous Riigikogu. As the law on the External Action Service still needs to be modernised, the new government has also re-submitted the draft in a similar form. I will briefly repeat the basic starting points for this draft. Firstly, the draft has been designed to bring the External Action Service as far as possible into line with the general public service. Transferring to the salary system of the Civil Service Act and abolishing the existing person-specific bonuses. From now on, the pay components of the career diploma are basic salary and variable salary (up to 20% of the annual salary). In addition, there will be an honorary or service level premium that is inherent in the career system. Secondly, recruitment for the External Action Service will continue under the Civil Service Act. The distinctions of the general public service that are essential for the EEAS remain. The additional conditions for recruiting as a diploma are Estonian citizenship, higher education and two foreign languages. As an innovation, a person with an earlier external communication experience can be recruited for a fixed period without a competition. Thirdly, the draft reduces the administrative burden of handling long-term external travel costs. Fourthly, the aim is to reduce red tape when sending professional diplomats to a foreign agency. The decision-making powers relating to the dispatch of professional diplomats shall be transferred to the Ministry of Posting. The posting orders shall be formalised and the basic salary and the additional fees shall be determined by the Ministry of Posting. Fifthly, the draft aims to achieve greater flexibility in the internal organisation of the External Action Service (EEAS) and to reduce the volume of legislation. Duplication of laws will be waived and the provisions on benefits and charges relating to long-term external missions will be repealed in the Civil Service Act and replaced by a reference to the External Action Service Act. In the event of entry into force of the draft law, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an additional need for EUR 1.3 million, in particular to cover additional living expenses. The Ministry of Defence, as the dispatcher of professional diplomats with the highest proportion, has an estimated additional cost related to the entry into force of the draft Act, together with other ministries of dispatch, with the exception of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of EUR 600000. These funds are provided for in the draft state budget, on the understanding that the Government of the Republic will apply, if the legislator, the High Chamber, considers it possible to process this draft in substance and also to adopt it as a law, so that the law enters into force in full on 1 August 2020, with the exception of the points of the draft, which simplify the procedure for the appointment of an ambassador, which would enter into force in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U95	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I'm asking for a co-rapporteur... However, there are questions. Excuse me, Minister, come back to the remote. Members of the Riigikogu have questions. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, This is undoubtedly a very important bill, with which we are going to amend, update and certainly strengthen the law of the External Action Service, which is also one of the priorities of the development plan to be created. Here's my question for you. As you mentioned, openness is, as is expanding, about to be appointed ambassador or diplomatic post. Would you imagine that, because of these changes, people who work temporarily in the private sector, for example, could come to the Estonian External Action Service in the future, especially if we mean the economic cost of either the consulates or embassies?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U97	Thank you. The answer is unambiguously yes. For example, let us look at the staff working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' headquarters. One thing is the internal career hierarchy system of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the person starts at the lowest level there, from the "junk" level and rises to captain. It's a model that's a basic model, a prevalent model. The central asset of the foreign service, foreign diplomacy, is, above all, those people and people's experience and knowledge in order to be able to link, draw conclusions and advise the complex embodiments of international relations. At the moment, many people work in the main house, even in high-profile positions of responsibility, who have come from other ministries in the public sector, for example. If you ask me if I should think that people from the private sector should also be involved in different tasks, then my answer is unambiguously in the affirmative. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also received in the draft budget, which, I hope, the legislator will support EUR 3 million in additional funding for next year, in order to develop precisely a full-time network of foreign diplomats and a network of people working with foreign businesses. I think it is quite conceivable that, in the selection of these people (in particular, our interest in getting more investments and opening up more markets) some part of them, this could be completely out of the question, being hired in the country of residence, these people do not necessarily have to go outside Estonia if we consider it more practical. It is certainly reasonable to consider seriously people in the private sector as well. There's no limit. I think that the logic or doctrine of the law was and is still built on it during the previous parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U98	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U99	Thank you, good Urmas! Just in terms of information, Marko was sitting behind me, not in that row of socks. If you answer questions, it would be good to keep in eye contact, so it's better to listen. My question goes in the direction that, when we travel around the world and talk to diplomats, it has become clear that one of the concerns is that the law on the External Action Service does not know or deal in any way with partners. After all, the concept of a partner has been included in the Defence Service Act, as well as, I see, it is in the Public Procurement Act, the Prosecutor's Office Act, the Public Service Act. I am not even talking about whether or not this is a registered partnership, but I am talking about a partner. The issue of partners in the External Action Service is certainly an important issue. Currently, the Act on the External Action Service states 'involving spouse', but there is no talking about the partner. What's your position? Would it be reasonable to allow diplomats to have these models of the family if they were not registered as married, but simply live together and have children in common?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U100	A hundred percent agree. Everyone's private life is completely free and for Estonian diplomats, no language in any family model, I naturally do not consider it conceivable and it would have nothing to do with the democratic rule of law. The question actually concerned, I suppose, the husband's fee. The draft does not take any attitude regarding a person's family model or private life issues, but it does, just as in 2006, if I am not mistaken, enter into force in the External Action Service Act, the payment of the spouse's remuneration to the non-working spouse, with some limitations. One of these is that if there is a so-called replacement income in the form of a pension, i.e. when a person receives a pension, he or she must choose whether to receive the non-working spouse's remuneration or pension. Secondly, it will be reduced according to the bill, but it was lost in the past when the person worked in the country of residence. On these issues, I took my course, I think, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, a very important debate. I had all the verbatim reports from the Committee on Foreign Affairs printed on this debate, on the report in plenary, and also on the letters sent when the Committee on Foreign Affairs asked for answers to certain questions. I'm sure I'll take them seriously. There were a large number of questions about the social rights of diplomats, and I think that the next debate, as well as the two readings, will have to be discussed seriously and substantively and not formally. If the question is whether it was an informed choice concerning the principle of the payment of the spouse's remuneration to the non-working spouse and the non-extension of persons, then yes, that choice was aware. The question whether the initiator, whether the government wishes to correct the draft submitted by it, is in the negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U101	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the question posed by Mr Randper and others came up quite acutely: how did they, and of course, partners of the same sex, think that only married people could receive these legal benefits, and they did. In addition, Commissioner Valdo Randpere said that if the state only counts the married and leaves the newlyweds out of the game, these staff should go to court against the state. How do you feel about this, and what if Randpere encourages officials to sue the state under the Cohabitation Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U103	This controversy has evolved, I admit, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs for almost an hour. This draft law itself was rather a follow-up cart, and the so-called carrier was actually a debate on what are the forms of partnership in which there could be a similar regulation to that of marriage fees in this law. The government did not see this need in this form. When someone is called upon to go to court to defend his or her right, whether real or alleged, or to defend his or her right, I do not feel frightened at all. There's nothing dramatic here. Is the current External Action Service Act constitutional? The answer is, in my opinion, yes in its entirety. Does this logic of the proposed draft, as well as the regulation of the current law, which is not changed for the sake of a long time in these matters, also reflect constitutional and current law? The answer is yes. These additional benefits, which the legislator considers necessary for the diplomats of our External Action Service, I consider important for people to be motivated, for people to have stability so that they can focus on the protection of the interests of the Estonian state in our External Action Service, must be guaranteed, but in the end it is still the choice of legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U104	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U105	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. According to the draft law and its amendment, a family member is also a accompanying supporter who takes care of a child under 13 years of age accompanying a staff member, a disabled child or an adult who has no working capacity. The only condition for bringing a support person is that in such a case a staff member should not take his or her spouse who would be entitled to a spouse's remuneration and social security. My question is why such a distinction has been created. This seems to be directly in conflict with the amendment made to the same bill, which allows the accompanying spouse to work without losing his or her spouse's remuneration altogether. Why does a servant have to choose whether to bring a support person or a spouse in view of the child's well-being?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U106	Thank you. The difference is very simple. In fact, this is the case where the spouse not in employment is accompanied by the word "unemployed" and when it comes to getting paid. If there is no question of pay, the only thing that matters is that people have a private life and live with anyone who makes up a household. The idea and logic is that if we are talking about a child, especially a child under 13, or a disabled child accompanying a diplomat, there may be a need for someone to take care of the child if the diplomat is working from morning to night. This person may be a grandmother, this person may be a so-called 'negligible' person, or a person with some kind of social support function, who may not have any household connection there at all, but is a person who is simply helping to care for children. This is when he is taken from Estonia. When a person is hired from a country of residence, that is a matter of its own. That's all that logic. It has nothing to do with living or living together or with other categories. The difference is that if a non-working spouse is present, the assumption is that, in the sense of this law, it is the person who thinks of this allowance, that it is the person who can also play the role of a support person for a child-nvalite or a child under 13 years of age.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U107	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U108	Good manager! Good waitress! How's that stuff really? There are spouses, by the way, and the text says in some places not "marriage' but "abuse' and is a support person. Are those partners who do not receive this mate's reward, in fact, undershadowed by the concept of a supporter? If I'm not officially married, I'll bring my partner, who qualifies as a supporter and can take care of our child as well. Or is it not such a construction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U109	Thank you. No, it's not a "substitution format" design. The question is, if the spouse is with him and the spouse is not working or is working in part, he or she will receive the spouse's remuneration. That's the case with a husband. If a child is accompanied by children or a minor child, and if a diplomat hires someone, he takes them from Estonia to babysit, then that person actually has this task. It is in no way a "parallel institute," such as the euphemized institute of a wife or a substitute institute in this logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U110	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U111	Good Urmas! Maybe you can give a clear answer or describe that all Estonian diplomats in the Estonian External Action Service do not have social guarantees during your reign. But the people who make up a family but are not married are still quite a lot of diplomats. As a person who spoke for family values before, however, you say that these family values in a nonmarital partnership are not like family values. How do you look diplomats in the eye now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U112	Like the diplomats, the person whose foreign policy talent I respect with great respect, Siim Kallas, whose foreign minister was under a similar legal regime, looks at them like Jürgen Ligi, whose foreign affairs initiatives were taken at the time of his foreign affairs, and as all subsequent foreign ministers look at them. In addition, as Sven Mikser, in the European Parliament, is looking at the peoples of Europe, who initiated the draft in the form that it was launched. I wouldn't dramatize things if there wasn't a drama-worthy question. We are not talking about equal rights right now. We are talking about the different choices that people have in real life, about which 'family status' the country considers necessary and which support it does not. It is undoubtedly a question of subjective choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U113	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U114	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, As you mentioned in one of your responses, this bill has already had a long period of procedure and, in fact, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has discussed various issues, including the issue of the rights of diplomats and their family members. We are not dealing here, for example, with the issue of pensions, but it will certainly be discussed in the future procedure. My question now, at first reading, is that if we now, as I said, are also drawing up a foreign policy development plan, or rather we are about to approve it, then be good and tell us what are the three most important components of this amendment to the law on the External Action Service that will actually benefit our diplomats. And will our External Action Service be strengthened with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U115	I think that these three elements, to put it this way, are not unique for the External Action Service, but I think that this is also the case for very many other public sector organisations, are actually those that we cannot find answers here, but we will find answers from the budget. Firstly, it is still a motivating and stable income. It is, I see, certainly one question, if we want to keep people at work long, get good people to work, people with interesting added value about ideas. The second is, I think, that's actually the official logic that is built into the competition committee and so on, the working peace. The organisation will always have its own subjective rate, discussion, but there must be clear rules on the basis of which people are appointed, especially when there is a place of interest for many people, and the organisation must act on the basis of objective criteria. So a motivating income and a rest. And the third is, I think, this important value that the organisation must be flexible enough, this 'frame', the backbone must be in place, are the principles of how people enter the External Action Service, under which they are guaranteed to cope with various forms of support and sufficient income. However, there is still a great deal of such technical bureaucracy in all these regulations and procedures. It is still an idea to bring it down so that it can be regulated in a continuous and more flexible manner. I believe these are the three values. A small country should keep its diplomats, ensure that the peace of work is guaranteed for diplomats, and, thirdly, it should also be able to provide flexibility in terms of bureaucracy within the organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U116	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U117	Good manager! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! Give me an overview of how diplomats in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs share a percentage with a husband and a life partner. The other half of the question: how much money should be added to the state budget if the partners should also be paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U118	That's the kind of records I don't know. There may be some internal forms, but I can answer that question, the kind of statistics that are going to get married or what is a private relationship with people, the Ministry doesn't have. But I've got one right here. As this controversy went on in the previous parliamentary term, it is precisely in response to the interest of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the answers are that many of the people on foreign missions are accompanied by spouses. As of the beginning of this year, a 225 husband and wife had been drafted in 99. Including those who have not applied for a marriage fee, whatever their motives, above all, I think, are that they will continue to work or have found some sort of application in the country of residence. The average number of recipients of the spouses' remuneration in 2018 was 84. During the various months, the number of spouses paid varied between 75 and 92 persons. Spouse pay, I point out, will also be paid on the basis of the law in force. In total, 1.734 million are planned in the 2019 budget for the marriage fee. We do not see any fundamental changes here. In terms of how many supporters of children and minors are expected to be taken along, we do not predict any changes in the nature of the funds.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U119	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U120	Mr. Minister! At first, there was a little talk about involving people outside the External Action Service. It's actually a very big subject. At the beginning of the creation of the External Action Service, a very closed career system was chosen for certain very clear reasons to which I am not going to devote any time now. But have you now thought about opening up this system, which would mean an open career system, and also that, under certain conditions, public competitions would be possible for the execution of important posts in the External Action Service, where respected business people would be able to apply, for my sake also politicians, for my sake also cultural figures? Much has been said in recent times that this closed career system is beginning to exhaust itself, with more and more difficulties in filling the posts inside the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U121	I say that a certain balance is always reasonable, pushing the balance in one direction or the other may probably, especially in a small country where, simply because of scale, these organisations do not have so much capacity to stand on their feet, cause the system to go either way. In itself, the current legal framework does not rule out this possibility. If you ask me if you could discuss this with any other amendments in Parliament, I am prepared to do so in every way. I certainly do not have such tabular logic in this discussion. If we ask whether we question that today's corps of diplomats is capable of 'rotating', it is certainly capable of doing so. But would such a side-by-side, long-term look add value to the quality of this organization? I think it is impossible to argue with this argument. Of course, I'd be willing to discuss it. Neither those wishing to enter the External Action Service from politics nor those coming from the private sector have been apprehended. This issue is certainly important in order to maintain objective quality and selection criteria. People must have competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U122	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U123	Thank you. Good Urmas! Aren't you afraid that you lied to us a couple of answers back and maybe now you're risking some horrible consequences? You said Sven Mikser presented this bill in this form. That's not true. Sven Mikser's original draft stated precisely that it would be possible to receive the so-called spouse's remuneration for various forms of cohabitation other than marriage. It was blocked by you as then Minister of Justice. Then this bill became the way it is in front of you right now. But that's it. In the committee, you were very proud of the fact that because of the fact that this bill is what it is, many marriages will be made among the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before they go on mission and will be separated after they arrive. It is called Estonian languages fictional marriage. Do you prefer marriages of convenience to other forms of union? Do you, for example, put the question of whether a husband and wife's marriage and marriage of fiction should be enshrined in the Constitution as the only form of partnership that is respected and loved by the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U124	Dear Valdo! I would like to thank you for this interesting question, which unfortunately, when reflecting what we have discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, does not correspond to objectivity, but is located somewhere along the side or side with it. Whether on the horizon or at a distance, it remains up to the questioner or to those who were present. I certainly did not express any happiness or joy in making a marriage of fiction. Similarly, it could be argued that those who propose to have the same parallel spouse's remuneration for a partnership contract are proposing to enter into fictitious partnerships or something else. I do not think there is such a point for the proposer; there was no such proposal here. Did the Committee on Foreign Affairs ask for an apology, I don't remember, was it you, Valdo, or anyone else, whether they were going to be married before they went to the External Action Service, or was there a statement that they were going to be awarded? My assurance was that I don't see anything wrong with people getting married. Whether it is a marriage of fiction or not, I cannot comment on that. I certainly do not welcome any fictitious practices that are carried out by misleadingly in order to obtain any legal status, whether it is a residence permit in Estonia by means of fictitious marriages or some kind of support or bonus. I have no doubt that any Estonian diplomat would have done such operations. I'm gonna knock it off. As regards whether I lied here when I was talking about presenting this draft, I really meant presenting this Parliament. It is right that you pointed out, Valdo, that the controversy over this was also on the government's coordination round during the previous parliamentary term. Here I certainly do not wish to mislead Parliament in any way. After the debate, the government reached a position, and that is the government's business, they are paid to reach positions. Whether everyone likes these views, including those involved in this debate, will always remain such a relative in the earthly agreement. But this government has reached a position on these issues in the form that this bill has now been presented, and I think there is nothing wrong with it. Should a possible constitutional referendum include a call for fictitious marriages? No, I certainly would not support such an approach that people try to define their family law status in a fictitious way, whether it is a fictitious marriage, a fictitious adoption or some other legal status, first and foremost, I understood the reference, for the sake of obtaining a good property. Even though it is not legitimate, it is a question of how it will later be legally objectively defined. It's illegal, and I think it's also morally immoral, according to a general human understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U125	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U126	Thank you. First of all, yes, indeed, for the sake of historical truth, you manipulated a little while you were talking about Sven Mikser. Valdo Randpere has already drawn attention to this, so I will not repeat that you, as Minister of Justice, did not allow the Foreign Minister to bring a bill to this hall, which was also about registered partnerships. But as both Minister of Justice and Minister of Foreign Affairs, you have actually ignored the will of the legislator. The legislator has said that the institution of registered partnership exists in Estonia and that the relationship between the people making up the family is described in exactly the same way through the registration of this partnership. You ignored it as Minister of Justice by blocking the original version of this bill, and now you're ignoring it as Minister of Foreign Affairs. Yet, you should understand that this is an unequal treatment that you are dealing with right now, because you are doing it simply because your taste is a little different. Why are you treating these people unequally?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U127	A very important theme circle. I was wondering if we were really dealing with the issue of the External Action Service. At ease! We will be dealing with the subject of sexual reforms and cohabitation, I am very interested in analysing it legally, in evaluating it, and I have no problem with that. The question of how the legislator defined its will. I think he defined it in a legally inapplicable way. This was an example where, in essence, the concept of relationships, which is conceived as partnerships, was, in fact, legally unfledged, which was to come from 'implementing acts'. We know that there are different views here. My point of view is one, the Ministry of Justice that led me had one position. Is such a thing even in the legal order or not, in the sense that it was linked to the fact that, together with implementing legislation, the relationship is determined? If you look at an application that was actually the subject of the procedure of the Cohabitation Act and implementing legislation, which has now fallen out of the procedure, then in fact... Or has it fallen out of the proceedings? I don't suppose the Social Democrats, the great enthusiasts, have any more presented this law in this Parliament. You have abandoned this policy and you have done the right thing. Why have you done the right thing when you no longer have the law on the implementation of the Cohabitation Act? You have done the right thing, because it was a legal mistake. Parallel marriage was sought. See, all the Estonian laws that mentioned the concept of marriage were taken, and it was very easy to make a 'law' bill, isn't it? And so came the law to amend 100 or 200 laws, and in essence, parallel marriages arose. This is certainly a legal cynicism, when one of the legal concepts of marriage, which is very clearly defined, with its rights granted by family law, and its support obligations, which the state envisages in society, was to be replaced by a 'copy' concept, was created a 'copy system' instead of telling the truth what the whole thing and the whole point of this action really was. After all, the purpose of this action was not to strengthen the rights of people in a factual marriage or in a factual partnership, since they were not affected in any way. It was misleading, as it was said, that one hundred thousand people would gain more rights, etc., it concerned people who were married in fact, but it was really intended to allow, through a parallel or similar legal relationship, the possibility of a marriage-like relationship between two persons of the same sex in the legal order. This naturally created resonance in society, and this legal manoeuvre did not find the kind of support that the initiators might have hoped for. It is certainly important to be honest about these things, which is a real desire, and then it will also be possible to legally describe them and shape ideological world views. I think these issues are, of course, important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U128	Valdo Randpere, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U129	Thank you. I have spoken honestly to you, dear Urmas, many times, what was the meaning and meaning of this law of cohabitation. I also said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that I am not fighting for the rights of homosexuals on this issue, but I am fighting for the rights of all people who do not want to register marriage, but still live together. The law of cohabitation is gender-neutral. In particular, heterosexual people, who are very numerous in Estonian society and who have not registered marriages, could benefit most from the cohabitation law numerically. As a lawyer, you also know that they don't have the same rights and obligations as married people. But I wanted to ask you your point of view that Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski said in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the same discussion would continue, that if people were not married, it would be a man's mistake, because all women want to get married and if they have not got married, it would be a man's mistake. Do you share that view? And how are we gonna get over that now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U130	You know, Maria's life has seen a woman. I'm sure he's got a strong sense of it. In these vital things, writers generalize, cultural people generalise and create images of human relationships. If any stage work comes up, what does it say? It's about human relations, isn't it? The whole human culture around these topics revolves around their artistic communication, their relationship, and their closeness. But every generalization is always incorrect. I think the assumption is that there are always exceptions. But when it comes to your concern that people should be given more security, I think that there is nothing more security to say, it is undoubtedly a marriage relationship in this form and with children in mind. With regard to the incapacity of the spouse, the maintenance obligation that arises for the spouse, the maintenance obligation towards the children, even if the family were to break up, other questions, it is undoubtedly universally intended to enable the family to function and have a greater guarantee. It's natural in the middle of nowhere. Will registered partnerships solve the problems of partners in a factual relationship if they do not want to marry as they did for various reasons, let us say, above all, because of the member, husband or wife of the relationship to which Maria referred? They're not gonna go into a registered life, either. We both know that. I remember that in the previous parliamentary term, when this controversy was going on, it was already in the previous parliamentary term, time was going quickly, I pointed it out, and there was a very serious debate about it, I think we even submitted a draft if you remember, Valdo, that if there has been a long-standing factual relationship or a marriage-like relationship, then in court it is by itself possible to identify the distribution of movable property, to separate, and it is clear who will have pots to which the pans are not, but in the case of real estate. Let's take the example: a woman is at home raising children, a man has real estate, a man pays a bank loan, then they split up, a man has a house in his name, and a woman has children in general, as the court normally decides. In the case of a very long-term relationship, in fact, I think, or could legally give the court the opportunity to assess the whole contribution to the partnership, including the question of real estate. But we had a very serious fight, you remember, they said they were gonna share the Volvos. I think that if we are talking about whether it is possible to strengthen the position of children in Estonian family law, these issues could certainly be discussed. But this registered partnership somehow doesn't solve any of the questions of just separation when a very long, factual marriage breaks down or ends.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U131	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U132	Thank you, manager. Good minister! For the sake of clarity: I am in favour of the Cohabitation Act and would also be very in favour of implementing legislation. But my question is not linked to the partnership law, and I hope you will not bring it into the answer either. I will also say that children's rights in the family law are protected, regardless of whether their parents are married, children are not harmed. But the question is simply this: is it not selective how we give benefits to people in certain cases by the state and in certain cases not? How would you explain to the people that we have laws here also refer to Hanno's speech, which talks about marriage-like relationships and gives people benefits, whether that or the Defence Service Act, and then there are other laws for which they are not given? How do you justify this selectivity?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U133	Thank you. I'd say so. In the question, you used the word'married-like'. Marriage is a very firm, very clearly legally established relationship. It has its own legal framework and we do not need to derive any analogous relationships here. People have private lives. When we talk about living together as a household, it does not always have to do with intimate proximity. People can live together in a household and organise their lives there. It's a private choice for people, and the state doesn't have to stick its nose in it. You said in some laws it applies, in others it doesn't. I think that, as far as the state is concerned, as the family is under state protection, this further protection of marriage, the further protection of lasting marriage by the state as a commitment to support, is certainly, in a large sense, still a world-view choice, a country's choice of value. The fact is that there are a lot of different family models in Estonia, and certainly no one has a moral right or should have a finger to point at one or another person-to-people relationship. It is not for the state to make these choices. There is certainly a married family model that the country has, I think, sensible to support further, and that is what it has done in accordance with the Act on the External Action Service adopted in 2006 and in this spirit also in the current draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U134	Signe Riisalo, second question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U135	Thank you. You were talking about protecting your marriage. In fact, the Constitution also includes the protection of the family and the protection of the relationship between children and parents. Maybe you can explain a little bit more about the difference between family protection and marriage protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U136	Thank you. Certainly, the Constitution needs to be improved on this issue in order to give more legal basis to these matters. I think that is, in fact, what comes to a referendum in the national elections in 2021 and these choices are made. However, as regards the protection of family relations, I think that the family law quite clearly determines the family support obligations for family members, as well as, alongside the social welfare law, the means of support that the state or local authorities are able to offer to individuals, either because of their status or because of their family status.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U137	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U138	Thank you. I expect good lawmaking practice to be based on some analyses or studies, even when laws are amended. But today, you said quite clearly here that those people who are not married will certainly not register their life together either. Based on what study did you say this in such a clear and definite way?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U139	Thank you. I say that every generalisation is wrong, as I said in answering one previous question. I simply relied on the fact that when the Cohabitation Act was discussed, the good questioner, who has now left the hall, said that perhaps a hundred thousand couples need it to register their relationship, to clean it up. A hundred thousand! A hundred thousand, I left it haunted in the back of my head. I'm not quite sure, obviously every number I say is wrong, but I remember that these registered partnership agreements have been formed, I don't know, maybe half a hundred, less than a hundred, let's say, that number is in tens. If you ask me what I'm relying on, I'm relying on an empire. Empirical evidence shows the presumption of how many people have a factual partnership and how much they have wanted to realise this registered partnership. We can see that these numbers are different in magnitude. The quality of this truth has been determined by life.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U140	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U141	Thank you. Good minister! I come back to Signe Riisalo's question of family as a concept of substance. People live together, they have kids, they work, they go to school. What message do you still give to those employees of the State Department who are not officially married? How should their career prospects stand, and how could they continue to develop this family that functions beautifully together in their careers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U142	The question is, if I make a generalisation, I can say that the career performance of all diplomats will certainly be judged by how good, diligent, talented, and how much experience they are. It's based on their personal professional performance. Indeed, I read about Indrek Tarand... Not in the memoirs, it was a collection of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the early days of the ministry, and he wrote there how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs became a burden, he himself apologized, and there was even such a painful case that there was probably a family with four children on mission, and since the children had to be paid for the training costs, etc., at the beginning of the 1990s it was a very high cost, they were returned before the deadline. But they had loans on their backs, there were exchange differences, and that convergence hadn't happened at the time in incomes and everything else, and it was very painful. So there has also been an example when a child-rich family has therefore been discriminated against, which Indrek did not deny in that writing at the time. Definitely, you have a big family, or you're a single person, or you live in any private form, that doesn't concern your career or your activities at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I can unequivocally confirm that. We have had a very legitimate question, which also had the chairman of the committee, that there should be no discrimination on other grounds, for example on an age basis. Life experience cannot be imitated. Very many other talents can be imitated, but life experience cannot be replaced. Therefore, there are certainly many things to be kept in mind. And what can I say? If your question was about the family in a broader philosophical sense, then the family has traditionally been understood in European culture as a group of people first united by either marriage or descent. It's such a bodybuilder's definition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U143	Thank you, Minister. No more questions. Now we have the opportunity to hear the co-report. Mr. Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U144	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, before I go to this particular committee meeting where the draft was prepared for today's first reading, I would just like to point out that we actually dealt with this draft, the amendment of the law on the External Action Service, also within the previous Riigikogu, in the final part of this work. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has already done, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs recalled in his presentation, a very thorough preliminary work so that we can finish by amending this very important law, so that indeed our External Action Service will be strengthened, more modern, more flexible, more open, so that people working in our External Action Service will not be discriminated against in one way or another, as we have already learned a little about this debate here. I am convinced that, even during this membership of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we will try to find as precise and well-argued answers as possible if we consider it necessary to make any changes to the draft that we have tabled. The Committee on Foreign Affairs prepared the first reading on Thursday 7 November 2019. Mr Reinsalu, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Mr Erki Kodar, Deputy Chancellor of Legal and Consular Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the 1st Bureau of the Legal Department, or Lawyer of the Office of International Law, Liina Martinson, were invited to the meeting. The invited guests gave an overview of what the amendment to the draft is or what is being requested, and the Minister also made a statement. During the Commission's discussions, a number of questions were raised concerning, in particular, the benefits to be paid for our diplomatic missions abroad, the right of pensioners on foreign missions to receive the spouse's remuneration, who are able to receive the spouse's remuneration and in which case they will not be paid or paid at a lower rate. Similarly, it was under discussion, as was the case here for the Foreign Minister, that the draft seeking to apply the Civil Service Act complied with the principles already applied in so many existing laws. In particular, the concept of a mate was discussed. But I believe that these issues, as the discussions in the Commission have shown, will probably be raised in the next meetings that will contribute to the procedure of this draft. In its previous composition, the Commission also received a pretty comprehensive overview of the practices and practices that have developed among our good partners and allies, where the External Action Service may or may not, but certainly has far-long-term experience. In these discussions that we are facing, the Commission certainly wants to obtain the widest possible information on the basis of both its experience and the experience of its partners and allies. The final objectives are for our External Action Service to become stronger through this legislative amendment and for all bottlenecks to be taken into account in the planning of our diplomats' careers. The committee decided, on the basis of its discussions, to seek the opinion of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. For example, I would just like to ask you a few questions that the Commission has raised when addressing the Committee on Social Affairs. Is it, and for what reasons, consistent with the principle of legal and equal treatment that the spouse's remuneration is not paid if the accompanying spouse receives a public pension? Or, for example, the question: Is there, and for what reasons, a reduction in the remuneration of a spouse working in accordance with the principle of equal treatment? Or, for example, this question: whether and for what reasons is it proportionate, in the circumstances described above, to deny access to employment services for a non-working spouse accompanying a foreign representative, in particular in view of the objective described in § 1 of the Employment Services and Benefits Act to achieve the highest possible level of employment of the working-age population and the prevention of long-term unemployment and exclusion from the labour market through the provision of labour market services and the payment of labour market subsidies? So, as you can see, the law and the draft of the External Action Service that we have before us has a far wider scope and a wider range of problems that need to be addressed, they do not only concern strictly diplomatic matters. As a point of view, the Minister suggested that we work in the Commission in such a way that the new version of the Act on the External Action Service can enter into force from 1 August next year. I guess it all depends on our procedural procedure, on how many amendments there are, and on which the Commission itself wants further information before coming to the next reading. But it is undeniable that one of the main positions of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the previous composition has also been that it would probably make sense to discuss the foreign policy development plan for the next ten years in the Riigikogu. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is currently preparing the session of the Riigikogu's large hall. I simply remind colleagues that one of the important pillars of the external policy development plan is the strengthening of the External Action Service, to which this draft should also contribute. On 7 November, following a very substantive debate, the Commission proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 12 November 2019, to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline of 3 December 2019 at 17.00. The rapporteur was appointed here and, as I have already mentioned, the decision was also made to ask the Social Affairs Committee for an opinion on the issues covered by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U145	Thank you. The co-rapporteur doesn't seem to have any questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? The speech can be given by a representative of a group. There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 45. The first reading is closed and the deadline for tabling amendments is 3 December at 5 p.m. Before we go to the next item on the agenda, I say that the Central Party Group has brought a request to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Let's get everyone in the hall first. So, ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to take your seats to vote. I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend the current sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the extension of working time, no one opposed, no abstentions, 35 did not participate. So today's sitting has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than two o'clock.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U146	Now on the next item, this is the first reading of the Tartu University Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Bill amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act 98. I'd like the Social Minister, Tanel Kiige, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U147	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, I will give a brief overview of the major changes to the Tartu University Act and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act's bill 98. The draft will transfer to the Health Insurance Fund, i.e. by 2020, the financing of medical residences' remuneration. This is the result of some of the earlier decisions, i.e. the decisions taken during the previous government to change the funding of the sickness fund. As we know, the contribution of health insurance to the social tax, which will gradually increase to 13% by 2022, also started to be paid for non-working old-age pensioners, and other services financed by the Health Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Social Affairs were also reviewed in the framework of the same decision and moved towards greater harmonisation, i.e. the transfer of services. For example, an ambulance was already transferred and now the medical residence's pay is transferred to the health insurance fund. The substantive decision follows from the past, has already been taken into account in the preparation of the 2020 budget, and has also been taken into account in the preparation of previous national budgetary strategies. The budgetary impact is 18 million euros, but it is not an additional obligation; it is not added to the approved RES or to the state budget pending before the Riigikogu. The idea is that, on the basis of this specific law, the cost of medical residences' salaries will be paid from the Health Insurance Fund's budget from 2020 onwards, which makes changes to the University of Tartu Act necessary. The management costs of the basic institution of residence, i.e. the costs of training at the University of Tartu, as well as the costs of organising the university itself, will continue to be remunerated by an administrative contract concluded between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the University. From now on, it will be the medical resident's salary that will be covered by the Health Insurance Fund, all the other, the lower costs still remain in our ministry's budget. These costs, as I said, were intended to be transferred to the Health Insurance Fund earlier, perhaps agreed and targeted a long time ago. The draft does not make major new changes to the legal area, but rather makes the necessary legislative improvements in order to ensure that decisions taken in the budget and in the national budget strategy are legally guaranteed, let us say so. Major substantive changes concerning the organisation of the residency or the organisation of the remuneration of the medical resident, the sources of the creation of these fees and, let's say, the principles of formation, this draft is not made. Indeed, it will only change which institution's budget will finance the remuneration of the medical resident. I'm not gonna stop at this any longer, but I'm happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U148	Thank you. There are questions. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U149	Good manager! Good minister! As I understand it, this is an excellent bill. The state budget already takes into account that residents do not understand where the money comes from and do not need to understand. The only thing is that it must be completed before the state budget is adopted. Tomorrow we're going to second reading. Is it such a perfect bill? The only thing is that it doesn't have to read this bill so that it can knock before the state budget is adopted. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U150	Thank you for your question. Of course, it is advisable to read and examine any draft law. Indeed, no major fundamental changes will be made with a specific draft, as I have referred to. It has been discussed several times before, in the previous government and in this government, between the University of Tartu and the Health Insurance Fund, as well as with the Ministry of Social Affairs. The aim is indeed that the law can enter into force from the new year with the state budget. It would really be good if the Riigikogu were able to process it at the same pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U151	Thank you. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U152	Thank you. Good minister! My question does not directly concern this subject, but I am still asking. Has there been serious discussions in the Ministry of Social Affairs in the end that the professional year of clinical psychologists should be funded by the Health Insurance Fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U153	Thank you for your question. Much has been discussed that the professional year could be publicly funded. This has not necessarily concerned the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, but, more generally, the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs. We have submitted an additional request for money, we also submitted it during this government's working hours, in the budgetary strategy talks on the state budget. Unfortunately, due to the lack of financial resources, most additional applications were not supported this year. This means that there are two options: whether the issue of funding for the professional year of clinical psychologists will be decided by Parliament or whether we will come back to it in the spring when we start putting together 2021. The 2009 national budget strategy. In any case, our support for this proposal will continue to exist; we consider it necessary and reasonable. The question really has been left behind simply a lack of financial resources at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U154	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. This draft will transfer funding to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund for medical and resident salaries from next year. At the same time, the summary of the contents refers to the government action programme. This action programme sets out the task of ensuring better access to health care for the people of Estonia and the sustainability of the health care system. I'm asking about the first part, about better access to medical care. How exactly does this draft promote better access to health care?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U156	Indeed, this reference is to the programme of action of the previous government and the fundamentals on the basis of which, as I pointed out, the comprehensive funding of the Health Insurance Fund was reviewed and the contribution of health insurance to the social tax for older people who are not working began to be paid. It has gradually increased the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. This particular change does not bring more money to the health insurance fund or to the health care sector; rather, it harmonises the basis of the system and the sources of cover, but the broader comprehensive reform of health funding initiated by the previous government did, however, bring in really free money into the budget, which could shorten the queues for children's psychiatrists and the order of endoprosthesis; in reality, it was possible to make certain decisions to allocate additional money precisely to shorten the more critical queues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U157	Thank you. Peter Ernits, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U158	Good manager! Good minister! I still couldn't get a straight answer. Tomorrow is the second reading of the state budget and the adoption of the state budget is imminent. Do we have to finish all these three readings before the state budget is adopted, or can it be hung up before the turn of the year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U159	The goal really is, as I said, that they would move at the same pace. The exact procedure, the pace of the procedure will, of course, be set by Parliament, will be set by the Riigikogu Board in cooperation with you. It is important that this law can enter into force from the new year 2020 onwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U160	Thank you. No further questions for the waitress, Mr. Minister. I would like to ask Helmen Hunt, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U161	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! At its meeting on 4 November, the Social Affairs Committee discussed the Bill 98, the Tartu University Act and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act Amendment Act, and heard the Minister's very detailed overview. As is the case here today, the Minister explained the need for this draft to be submitted. In order for good colleagues to understand why this bill is here today, but also in the interests of the verbatim report, I say that the decision to compensate medical residents for their labour costs through the Health Insurance Fund from 1 January 2020 was made by the Government of the Republic, in principle, already on 21 September 2017, when the possibilities of extending the income base of the Health Insurance Fund were reviewed. The government decided to move part of the funding of services financed by the state budget to the health insurance fund in order to reduce the fragmentation of funding and thereby increase the efficiency of the health care system. For example, in 2018, it was decided to transfer from the services financed by the state budget to the health insurance fund the obligation to provide dental care allowance, emergency medical care, to ensure a 24-hour long-term medical consultation of seafarers in Estonian and English, to provide supplementary medical benefits and to finance supplementary fees for family doctors. Since 2019, the Health Insurance Fund has been responsible for financing HIV medicines, immune products, inescapable aid for uninsured persons, tuberculosis medicines and antidotes. The Riigikogu has adopted everything in advance. The amendments proposed by this draft were not made at the time, as they required negotiation with both the health insurance fund and health care providers. The proposed changes concern, in particular, the Health Insurance Fund, which will instead of the Ministry of Social Affairs reimburse the labour costs of medical and resident doctors of the University of Tartu. 18 million have been planned for this in 2020. The draft concerns the University of Tartu, to which the Estonian Health Insurance Fund will be added as a partner financing an additional residency in addition to the Ministry of Social Affairs. There were also questions on the Commission after the Minister's presentation. Hele Everaus asked why such a change was a good one and whether the University of Tartu was now joined by another contractor. The Minister of Social Affairs replied that this was a decision of the previous government and that it would create the right to finance the labour costs of residents from the Health Insurance Fund's budget. Taavi Rõivas asked about the costs of implementing the law whether the amounts planned for residents' labour costs were also included and accounted for in the budget. The Minister replied that 18 million were earmarked for this and had already been taken into account within the framework of the state budget for 2020, that the draft would only establish legal bases and that they would all be well reflected in the budget. The Commission took the following decisions: It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 13 November. Now, do not be surprised that I am here today, because the next Commission meeting on 5 November changed that time because of the length of tomorrow's agenda, but this time it was decided, yes, to put it on the agenda on 13 November. It was decided to make proposals to stop the first reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 18 November, and the vice-president of the Commission, Helmen Kütt, was appointed as rapporteur, which is the speaker in front of you today. All these decisions were taken in a consensual manner. On Tuesday, 5 November, the Committee on Social Affairs reconvened and amended one decision, decided to change the date of discussion in plenary and to set it at 12 November. This decision was also made in a consensual manner. That's all I have to add. The deadline for tabling amendments remained unchanged. As I said earlier, it will be November 18th at 5:15 p.m. Thank you. I'll answer the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U162	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions. Now is the opportunity to start negotiations. Representatives of the political groups shall be present. I do not see any requests, so I will conclude the round of negotiations, and the first reading of draft 98 is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 18 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U163	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like Minister Tanel Kiige to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U164	Dear Vice-President of Parliament, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you a brief overview of the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors 99. The purpose of the Act is to improve drug treatment services, make them more efficient and do so by linking data, interconnecting and improving different databases and improving the quality of services provided to patients. Perhaps the issue today is that the draft amends the drug treatment register, which is maintained by the controller's National Institute for Health Development, which collects data in order to prevent the spread of drug addiction, evaluate the effectiveness of treatment, evaluate diagnostics and treatment of drug addiction, design health policies in the area, organise health services for drug users, analyse the occurrence of drug addiction in Estonia, and also perform statistics, epidemiological studies and scientific research. The main issue is that data are currently entered into the NARIS drug treatment register in such a way that the identity of the patient cannot be directly identified. This cannot be done by your doctor. The human data shall be coded and entered as a "unique code' which shall be linked to the data of a particular case of treatment. However, each time such treatment is initiated or terminated, a separate notification is made, which means that the state does not have an overview of who has been specifically offered the service, how much this service has been offered, for whom it has been started or terminated and how many entries actually represent different people. Perhaps even in terms of statistics, not to mention more accurate treatment, it is a database, let's say, limited access, statistics are not very precise. That is the content of this amendment to the draft law. The question is that today's situation and laws do not allow the stated objectives of the register to be met. This has a direct impact on the quality of drug treatment and on the decisions taken. All in all, the problem areas that I briefly described here are that it is not possible to return to the primary data, to verify the accuracy of the data when something has been entered, to compare the documentation of the various health institutions in order to check quality, to link databases to one another, whether or not to link them to the TB Registry, to the Information System for communicable diseases, to the Population Register and to the Causes of Death Registry, which once again makes it difficult to analyse the field and to produce statistics, namely in the area of drug addiction. Nor is it possible to correctly predict the actual volume of services and, as has been said, to ensure the effectiveness of treatment quality. So, because of all these issues, it is proposed to change this particular register, to start collecting data in the same way as in all other Estonian registers in a personalized form. This means giving the opportunity to return to the primary data, comparing different entries on starting treatment and ending treatment with the Population Register and the Causes of Death Registry, or making the register considerably more accurate and better, providing people with a better quality service, more efficient service, and obtaining much more accurate statistics for the benefit of the state. Why are we even talking about this area? In Estonia, drug addiction is undoubtedly still a serious and growing public health problem. When we talk about young people, among school students aged 15 to 16 in Estonia, the frequency of drug use is higher than the European Union average and, regrettably, this indicator is on an upward trend. We are also still the country with the highest proportion of overdose deaths due to drugs in Europe and, unfortunately, there have also been no significant signs of improvement. When we talk about the spread of HIV, we talk more about these problems, we are no longer the first in this area in the European Union, but we are still in the top three, and this is certainly not a ranking where the country would like to see itself at the top. With the draft, we want to make this data interrelated and possible interface with them and, through these registers, to give medical doctors the opportunity to return to the original data if necessary, as well as to give the state a better opportunity to produce statistics, forecast the volume of treatment services, develop services and improve the choice and quality of the services provided to patients. The Institute for Health Development would also be able to assess the diagnostics of drug addiction, the effectiveness and quality of treatment, on the basis of which we are designing a national health policy in the field of drug treatment. That concludes my brief introduction. I'm sure I'll answer the questions if there are any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U165	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Without questioning the need to amend the law, this draft stands out for the social impact of this amendment. It is said that the drug treatment database will process personal data on a large scale. This large volume is defined as 5000 and more data subjects. Can you name how many data subjects are required in that register? Although you have already mentioned here that, especially among young people, we have a higher level of drug use than the European Union average, do you think that we have the potential to reduce this figure considerably? This last part of the question goes a little bit past this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U167	Thank you for your question. I think that both questions are entirely relevant. Since this register, as I referred to earlier, is really inaccurate also statistically, so we do not really know how many people who have received help in one institution or another, how many of them overlap and how many different people are among them, it is very difficult to assess what the number of people who will be entered in the new register will be in the new register. This is also one of the reasons why we want to move forward with it as quickly as possible in order to start collecting data in a personalised form from January 2020, so that we can also have a correct database for years. If, for example, we were to adopt the draft as a law and start this work half-year, there would be a question once again that, if we had six months of data that were not accurate, accurate data would come in the second half of the year, how we would then compare them, especially if we wanted to make some comparisons with previous years or with future years, from 2020 onwards. So it is not possible to estimate the exact number of persons so specifically today. Probably stays with the thousands. As regards the second part of the question, whether it would be possible to reduce this figure, this must, of course, be the aim of the state, on the one hand. In particular, the aim should be to reduce the number of drug users, the number of cases, the proportion of risk behaviour. The register, as such, allows the number of people specifically treated to be known and the reduction in this number should be accompanied by a general decrease in the number of users. Therefore, the fact that there are few recipients in the register does not necessarily mean that we have few people who really need this treatment. Be careful in this respect, because statistics are sometimes such that beautiful numbers may not reflect reality. The aim is for the real situation to improve, namely that the use of drugs among children, students as well as the general population of Estonia would decrease, the number of overdose deaths, the risk of infection, disease would decrease. Of course, the register clearly contributes to this objective, i.e. it helps to improve the quality of treatment, helps to monitor whether a person has received a service, how thoroughly he has received it, how much it has benefited. Also, if a person returns to treatment repeatedly, it is immediately possible to identify what has been the previous treatment services that he has received through the state budget and what needs and opportunities will be in the future. I'm sure it'll contribute, but I'm sure the register isn't the only thing here. We work in the government and in the ministry on this issue more broadly. When we talk about drug use, when we talk about the spread of HIV, both of these are undoubtedly issues that need to be dealt with thoroughly. One thing is strategy, the other is real action. We have also applied for additional money, we have received money from the government budget as a force, we have received additional money in this area for prevention activities as well as for therapeutic activities. It is impossible to achieve change overnight, but every year we must bet, because if there is a hole in the hole or a distraction, then there are certainly such worries that show themselves very quickly and again and very possibly in worse shape than before, if the country does not keep its hand on a constant pulse.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U168	Thank you. Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U169	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! I think it is very good that such a database is being dealt with. I asked my question about a specific draft in the Commission, but I am now asking more broadly. Developed countries are moving on to a difficult venture towards medical management and financing, called value-based medicine and medical management, which actually evaluates the outcome and also finances the medicine on the basis of how one or the other person receives specific assistance. One of the prerequisites for this is disease registries. Has the Ministry of Social Affairs thought that we need central records of major disease groups? We have one very good assumption, we have an electronic database of cases, but we do not, as Sweden has had for decades, have disease records. Have you conceptually-strategicly thought about it? It's very nice to make these registers in one corner and another, but it doesn't go any further.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U170	Thank you very much for your constructive question. The truth is that we have cancer registers, we have a TB register, we have the same register of drugs and drug treatment. There are, of course, more of these registers. The point of your question, I think, was that it might be better not to be sick or patient, but rather to be registers allowing the quality and results of treatment services to be assessed. That this direction could be developed, of course, has been discussed in the Ministry, and it has also been discussed with the Health Insurance Fund, that it is precisely the financing principles that could really move in that direction so that the quality and outcome of treatment would clearly influence and support funding. This is technically quite difficult because, as you well know, for example, the hospitals of the development plan for the Estonian hospital network are very different, they deal with very different cases and often they are not necessarily comparable. The question is also that there would be no need for data to be provided again, either somewhat better or not to provide negative data. The evaluation should be carried out as adequately and objectively as possible. On the one hand, maybe such positive competition in a good way, if indeed by the quality of the treatment it would be possible for hospitals and also service providers, say, to compare (I do not want to say to list), in itself would be supportive, but of course it can also, if we talk in terms of communication, have a different effect. If these registers are kept in public, to hold the whole debate in public, there may also be a problem of faith and trust in different health institutions in a bad way. We must avoid this situation. We cannot compare incomparable service providers with unparalleled budgets. But in principle, I support this direction. This principle is widespread in the private sector, less in the public sector today, but in some areas it is still applicable that any activity, it is a cure or it is a provision of some services, it must also have measurable results. Of course, the quality and efficiency indicators of the result to be measured could at least be part of the price component of this service, if not the whole component, or the basis for its budgetary assembly, let us say so.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U171	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Minister. I would like to ask Signe Riisalo, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U172	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, On 4 November, the Social Committee discussed a draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 99. Anna-Liisa Pääsukene, adviser to the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Tanel Kiik, Minister of Social Affairs, were invited to the committee. Tanel Kiik was present to present the draft. Indeed, the draft offers new opportunities for better care for the person's health, on the one hand, or for better planning of treatment at individual level, for monitoring his or her treatment also in the temporal dimension, but on the other hand, it is certainly no less important that we can plan the need for treatment, the number of people in need of treatment, their problems and their involvement in other areas of life in the country as a whole. In the course of the Commission's discussion, the following issues were mainly addressed: what are the rights of access to the database, which persons are entitled to it; what is the person's right to receive information or also to refuse to enter his or her data in the register; what is the risk that treatment will be abandoned if the patient knows that his or her data will be entered in the register. The question of the potential date of entry into force was also addressed. Me and Urmas Espenberg were interested in accessing the registry data. Only a psychiatrist who, by law, is the only provider of medical services who prescribes, prescribes and organises the diagnosis of addiction is able to access the records. It was asked whether family doctors and local social workers could access the data. The answer was no, these data are not available to them. To the question of the position of the Data Protection Inspectorate on the draft, Minister for Social Affairs Tanel Kiik replied that the opinion of the Data Protection Inspectorate had not been included in the draft, but would send it to the Commission for consultation at a later stage. Member of the Commission, Mrs Helmen Kütt, asked if the risk has been assessed that if a person knows that he has entered his personalised data database, he will give up treatment. This risk was also referred to by the Data Protection Inspectorate. In addition, it was proposed that persons should be informed of the entry in the register to which all those present agreed. In addition, as a member of the Commission, Mrs Hele Everaus suggested that the Bioethics Council should also discuss this issue. The Member of the Commission, Mrs Helmen Kütt, agreed. The date of entry into force of the draft was briefly discussed, namely 1 January 2020. As this draft does not relate to the adoption of the state budget or the obligations arising from it, it is not so urgent, and the Commission considered the possibility of extending the period of entry into force to allow better preparation. Some of the questions remained in the Commission, especially because the public health adviser, Mrs Pääsukes, was unable to participate. These answers were sent to us later in writing by Tanel Kiik on behalf of the Ministry. On 4 November, it was decided to send the draft to the plenary session by 12 November 2019 (the decision was consensual), to propose that the first reading be terminated and to appoint Signe Riisalo, Member of the Commission as rapporteur. On 5 November, a second meeting took place, as was the case with the previous draft, and the date of the first reading in the large hall was changed, which was raised to 12 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-12_U173	Thank you very much for the co-rapporteur. It is possible to ask questions, but no questions have been received. We now have the opportunity to open negotiations on this issue. Representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. There doesn't seem to be any requests. We have reached this point where it can be said that the first reading of the 99 draft Act amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been completed. This was proposed by the lead committee and no other proposals have been received. So the first reading is finished. The deadline for tabling amendments is 26 November at 5.15 p.m. Although we still have, as we agreed, 55 minutes to hold a sitting, there are no further items on the agenda. So the hearing is closed. Closure of the sitting at 1.05 p.m.
