ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U1	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, good morning to everyone! We will start the 7th working week Tuesday session of the first plenary session. On behalf of the board, I am prepared to accept inquiries and drafts. There do not seem to be such suggestions. I have some messages. After the plenary session, the following groups will meet in this Chamber: firstly, the Finno-Ugric Support Group, convened by Raivo Tamm, secondly, the Defence Industry Support Group, convened by Andres Metsoja, thirdly, the Foreign-Estonian Support Group, convened by Tarmo Kruusimäe. There's a request to check our presence. Checking for presence. The presence check indicates we're 85, missing 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U2	We will begin work on the agenda items for the Tuesday session of this working week. There are two points on the agenda. The first point is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Kai Kullerkupu Appointment of a Member of the Supreme Court" presented by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve. The rapporteur is Mr Jaak Madison, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please, Mr Madison!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This issue was addressed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, including at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of 6 May, attended by its members, Indrek Saar, Andrei Korobeinik, Hanno Pevkur, Oudekki Loone, Paul Puustusmaa, Taavi Rõivas, Vilja Toomas and the speaker here. President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve introduced the candidate, Mrs Kullerkuppu. The members of the committee had no questions, because the candidate had met all the political groups and had a meaningful conversation with the members of the Riigikogu. Following the above, the Commission proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 28 May, that Mr Jaak Madison be appointed rapporteur and that Kai Kullerkupu be given up to a five-minute presentation before the assembly. The decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U4	Thank you. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, we have the opportunity to ask questions to the rapporteur. There are no questions. I ask for a speech chair at Kai Kullerkupu, a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, who has been given the opportunity to say things in five minutes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U5	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Today I have a great honour and a special opportunity to briefly share some thoughts on justice with you. For a long time, Justitia, the Goddess of Justice, has been regarded as a symbol of justice. He is usually depicted with blindfolded eyes, with scales in one hand and a sword in the other. Closed eyes symbolize that justice does not matter in remote circumstances or in any external impressions, but only what has been confirmed as facts and what is stated in the law that the court must apply. Justicia's blindfolded doesn't mean she should be invisible. Judicial power as a third state power must be equally visible, as must legislative and executive powers. Judicial power is designed to protect violated rights, no matter who has violated them. The trial is generally public and is one of the fundamental pillars of the rule of law. Only in exceptional cases will the court discuss the matter behind closed doors. However, the Court has also been accused of opaque action, of the language of the misunderstanding of ordinary people and of decisions that run counter to the so-called general sense of justice. It is always dangerous to draw conclusions from information found in the press or from other indirect sources, as this information may not contain all the important facts and is far from all that Justitia, blindfolded, should take into account when making a decision. The court cannot judge on the basis of public expectations. Criticism is completely customary and everyday in the work of the judge. When two parties argue in court, usually the court can grant the right to one or the other. After all, it inevitably follows that the party that was in dispute is not satisfied with the result, thinks of a visible tilt, and then tries to show it in its own way outside. On the other hand, the recipient party does not tend to express its approval often, but believes that the court did what it had to do. In order to avoid the sound of mainly negative notes, the court itself should also contribute and fight against widespread misconceptions; no one else may do so for the court, otherwise the image of the rule of law could be damaged. Thus, more and more thinking is spread so that the court can find ways to explain the basis on which the decisions were made. However, this could not be done in such a way that the court should, for every decision of interest to the public, proceed to justify itself, why the solution was not what the public expected. Maintaining the neutral and reliable image of the Court requires restraint in any expression of views. I believe that emphasis must also be placed on the fact that the judicial system is close to people. This means both communication activities, which may consist in press releases, performances in the media, promotional events, but also in the public's understanding that there is a court, that it is available where necessary, that it is available on the spot. This issue, in turn, has several aspects. It is important that access to the court is maintained at the local level, which is currently guaranteed in the county centres in Estonian terms. Another way to ensure accessibility is digital solutions, which are also characteristic of Estonia as an innovative digital state. But here, too, the balance between where the limit goes, when digital solutions help to meet the needs of real life and when the centre of gravity tends to pass on to the Internet and when the trial begins to become an online or virtual service. However, this should not be allowed to happen. I believe that it is possible to achieve a reasonable balance, so that technological solutions do support real life and not tend to replace it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U6	Thank you. It is also possible to ask questions to a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court. My colleague Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Member of the Supreme Court! I have a question that I have still asked all the candidates for a member of the Supreme Court. What is your attitude towards the Constitutional Court? Would Estonia need this separate unit, or would there be an adequate current system where the existing judicial system also covers constitutional disputes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U8	As a judge, I have rather a modest mindset and I believe that reforms of the judicial system should not take place where, at least in my opinion, the existing solution works and covers the needs of the Republic of Estonia. There are undoubtedly different solutions in different countries. There is no separate constitutional court tradition in Estonia. As a result, I think that it may not be possible to experiment, but rather, if there is something lacking in the current system, it should be considered whether it could be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U9	Thank you. My colleague Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. How do you feel about gender neutrality and whether it would be more appropriate to write 'gender' or 'gender' or 'parent 1' and 'parent 2'?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U11	Thank you for an interesting question. I have not considered this issue in depth. If there really is a group of people who do not see that their rights can be exercised in a different way than by indicating in their passports not'man' or 'woman', but something in between, then the country certainly cannot reject the interests of these people. But I cannot offer a solution that could satisfy all possible stakeholders in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U12	Thank you. My colleague Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U13	Thank you. Candidate for a Member of the Supreme Court! In the Constitutional Committee, we also had the opportunity to exchange some ideas with the Chairman of the Supreme Court yesterday, as a result of the discussion of the activities of the Supreme Court last year. We talked about this when we met in the group, but I will also ask in the large Chamber for your opinion and your sense of preliminary agreement procedure, particularly on the need for conciliation in family matters. When we look at the burden on the courts, especially in civil matters, we see that the volume of family matters is very large. What is your opinion, could this conciliation process help to reduce the burden on both the Supreme Court and help to resolve matters better in substance?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U14	Thank you. Indeed, I think that, especially in family matters, out-of-court and pre-trial conciliation measures would be very helpful, not even by putting the workload of the courts first, but by giving priority to the interests of their families and children. At present, there are social workers and specialists in local governments involved in dealing with children, family-related matters, but it is likely that reconciliation measures could be found that would be more flexible and allow even better and without major formalities to find suitable solutions for children and families if they themselves have not managed to organise their lives. I believe that, particularly in family-law disputes, this issue deserves serious consideration.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U15	Thank you. Colleague Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U16	Thank you, Mr President. A candidate for a good Supreme Court Member! I ask this question: how visible should a member of the Supreme Court be? Should a member of the Supreme Court comment in the media, for example, on incomplete court decisions, judgements, etc., or should all this be done in silence in the office?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U17	This is a very important issue that stands before not only the members of the Supreme Court but also all judges. In matters where the public has an interest in which journalists turn and want to know, the judge must find a medium of how much it is possible to reflect this process and where the line from which he is already risking the loss of his neutrality and impartial image goes. I do not think that the judge should comment on the decisions during the ongoing process. Rather, this could be done after the decision has been made, and also in such a way as to explain the reasons for what the solution was born, but not to justify, why there was no such solution as the public might have expected. Rather, we should find a neutral explanatory position and not comment on pending disputes alongside lawyers and prosecutors.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U18	Thank you. My colleague Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U19	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Member of the Supreme Court! The Estonian Reserve Officers' Assembly of Lawyers' Section and not only there have been discussions over military court mathematics during the last few years. We know that both the state of emergency and the declaration of martial law involve a great deal of restrictions on constitutional rights. My question: how practical is it to form a court of war in Estonia or at least to create a readiness to form a court of war, i.e. if the Estonian judicial system is ready for such extreme situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U20	Thank you. I think it would be worth thinking seriously about creating a readiness. I do not currently have such data that, should some extreme situation arise, I hope that this will not happen, the judicial system will be able to react immediately and take immediate action to the duties of a military court. Crisis situations should also be considered by the country. Whether this would require the creation of a separate court of war in peacetime is a matter of its own. But a solution or a solution scheme could be thought out in case such a need arises.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U21	Thank you. Colleagues Henn Põllaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U22	Thank you, President-in-Office. I, too, have a question that I have asked all the candidates for membership of the Supreme Court. Currently, individuals have the right to turn to the Supreme Court in the event of personal interests being violated. What do you think about extending this possibility so that citizens can also appeal to the Supreme Court in the event of an invasion of the public interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U23	Thank you for your question. I think that the current procedure, where it is possible to appeal to the Supreme Court in a specific case for the protection of its own interests, in the event of violation of its rights, has justified itself and is justified. There are other ways of protecting the public's interests, including in the policy area, to find ways of improving existing regulations or procedures that do not provide satisfactory solutions for some groups of people. Enabling such general complaints would result in a significant increase in the workload of the Supreme Court and would involve other risks. I think that, at this point in time, it would be preferable to have a system of individual appeals that has developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U24	Thank you. My colleague Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable candidate of the Supreme Court Kai Kullerkup! It is quite clear that you have professional competence and preparation, you have experience in this field. There's no doubt about it. But my question is about the kind of thing that inspires you in this work at the moment. It is known that this profession can be held for a lifetime if there are no other ideas in the meantime. What could inspire you in this work in ten years' time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U26	Thank you for your question. It seems to me that legal work, including judicial work, is forever an inspiring phenomenon. There are some routines that tend to be repeated in everyday work, but at the same time, all the disputes before the courts are different, each of them has something new and some kind of problem that has never been thought of before. I have also been assured by colleagues who are older than me that no matter how long to work as a judge, there will still be disputes where there will be a completely new problem that has never been heard before. Life itself is what puts these questions before us, and that is what inspires us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U27	Thank you. My colleague Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U28	Good manager! Good waitress! You have once said that there are laws in force in Estonia that date back to the time of Leonid Brezhnev. The former Minister of Justice has said that the Constitution must be read that what is written in black white may not be literally like this. Can you explain how the Constitution should be read? Can it be based on what it says in black white, or is there something else written with milk that needs to be read?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U29	Thank you. I agree that the Constitution must be read, as must all other laws. Regrettably, laws can be read in different ways. The way in which the law is understood depends both on the exact wording of the law and on the knowledge the reader makes of the law. Lawyers today study law for at least five years before they can start working as beginners. Actually, studying to be a lawyer takes the rest of your life. As I have just referred to above, for decades there may be questions and problems that have never been encountered before and cannot be solved at first sight. The Constitution, like all other laws, requires interpretation. This involves reflection on what the legislator had in mind when it introduced the law that was intended to be achieved and what these basic values are, which must not be forgotten, even if they are not black in white in law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U30	Thank you. Colleague Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U31	Thank you, Mr President. A candidate for a good Supreme Court Member! The question is perhaps a little detail, going back to private law and family law. Both children and adults with reduced capacity are known to have a guardian, ideally a self-guardian, but, unfortunately, the local government is very often the guardian of the children. There is a certain conflict in this situation. If the local authority is obliged to provide social services, which is also their donor, and at the same time must represent the personal rights and interests of the child or of the disabled person, it is clear that both tasks cannot be performed as well at the same time. Since 2010, the Family Act also regulates the designation of a legal person as guardian; this possibility exists. However, the legislator has not taken any pro-active measures to help implement it. There is an unincorporated mandate rule in the law, a regulation that allows the state to purchase custody services. How do you feel about it, and what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U32	Thank you. It is true that the desire that the family law that came into force in 2010 had in mind for non-profit organisations and other organisations to take up these functions of guardianship instead of local government on a voluntary basis has not really come true. I don't know exactly what the reason is. Probably there's a financial background here, too. However, I dare say that local authorities can, in practice, carry out these tasks in this dual role as well, and probably partly because the new family law was taken away from one competence, supervision, local authorities, it was handed over to the courts, but before that, it was also the authority of local authorities. In cooperation, it seems to me that this system is still working. We cannot say that the interests of the guardians are completely unprotected or that abuses have occurred. Reports must be submitted to the court, and if there are any errors, the court will draw attention to them. But how can it be achieved that there are more organisations offering such custody or carrying out such functions of guardianship, or that it also takes place on an individual level? Here again, specialists, I think, have a lot of work to work out a solution and maybe find a financial cover so it can happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U33	Thank you. Colleagues Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, How do you feel about the law of partnership?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U35	I'm completely neutral about the law of cohabitation. There has been no occasion to face this in your work; no dispute about this has occurred at least in the working area of the Tartu Circuit Court, according to my information. This is not a law that causes problems in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U36	Thank you. Colleagues Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You spoke earlier about a certain opportunity to interpret the Constitution. I have a question about e-elections. As we know, in the Constitution on elections, it is very clear that they are secret and uniform; there is also a certain period of time in place. We know that there are very many examples that e-elections have not been secret or uniform, and that the period during which they take place deviates from what is stated in the Constitution. What is your opinion on whether or not e-elections comply with our constitutional order?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U38	Thank you. This issue was analysed quite recently by a number of state law scientists whose knowledge in this narrower area I have little to add to. Indeed, this question has also arisen and it has been discussed whether such an arrangement is compatible with the meaning of the Constitution. There was no such phenomenon at the time when the Constitution was developed and established. It is now an opportunity to take part in elections that has developed or has been created by ex post developments. There are those who confirm that any intervention and monitoring is also excluded in the case of e-elections. On the other hand, there are really complaints that e-elections do not meet this requirement. For my part, I can simply say that, in the last elections, I myself participated in the polling station as a whole, and for myself, I have removed this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U39	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Kai Kullerkup! Now I have a question as to whether we will open negotiations. When we open, one representative from each political group will be able to make a speech. So is there a wish to open negotiations? I can't see it. Then we go to the final vote. First of all, we invite everyone to the final vote and the final vote is secret. [[Sound signal.]] Two minutes are up. Honourable Riigikogu, may I have your attention for a moment? Honourable members of the Riigikogu, pursuant to § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, final vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Kai Kullerkupu Appointment of a Member of the Supreme Court' presented by the President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve 5. Please take a stand and vote. 58 members of the Riigikogu adopted the following opinion by 19 votes to 1, with 9 abstentions. Bill 5 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U40	Now, can I have your attention, please? We have another important item on the agenda today. This is finance... [[In the diner.]] In this regard, as the English Presidency has repeatedly said, the one who speaks has the right to wish to be heard, even if he is the chair of the meeting. So our second item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'A representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee' presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The rapporteur is Mr Maris Lauri, Vice-Chairman of the Monetary Commission. No amendments to the draft were tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U41	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will introduce the draft very briefly. We appoint an Estonian representative to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee. The Riigikogu has traditionally been the Chairman of the Monetary Committee. As the chairman of the Finance Committee is replaced because of the election of the new composition of the Riigikogu, our representative will also change. According to the draft, Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, will be responsible for this for the next two years as of June. As the President said, no amendments were received. The Commission discussed the draft at its meeting on 14 May and decided to consensually send the draft to the Riigikogu's agenda by 28 May and to propose (as well as consensually) to support the draft. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U42	Thank you. It is, as usual, possible to ask questions to the rapporteur. Mr Vilja Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U43	Thank you. Good waitress! Thinking about the events of the last few days, I wondered: when you discussed this in the committee, did you make sure that the representative of Estonia who is representing us in the world still knows enough at least English so that he could represent us with dignity so that it would not be embarrassing again at times?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U44	Thanks for asking. I guess it's always wise to do that, and we'll do it the next time. But this time we trusted, at least in that hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-28_U45	Thank you. No further questions. Negotiations are also possible on this point, just as it is possible to speak on behalf of the political groups and to give a speech. Are there any representatives of the political groups who would like to make a speech on this issue? I can't see them. Then we invite everyone to the vote. So, honourable members of the Riigikogu, pursuant to § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, I will vote to the final vote on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a representative of Estonia to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee 10. Please take a stand and vote. The honourable Riigikogu, 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, one against, no one abstained and 17 members of the Riigikogu did not participate. The draft has been adopted as a decision and the agenda has been exhausted. Closure of the sitting at 10.39 a.m.
