ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U2	Good afternoon, President of the Republic, President Rüütel, Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Ministers, constitutional officials, Excellencys! Honourable guests! I am opening the second session of the XIV Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U3	Please ask the Speaker of the Riigikogu Henn Põllamaa, President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U4	Dear President of the Republic of Estonia, President Rüütel, Members of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Government of the Republic, representatives of constitutional institutions, Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased to welcome you to the opening of the second session of the XIV Riigikogu. Last year we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. This year is also an anniversary year: 135 years from the celebration of the blue-black-white flag, 150 years of song festivals, 100 years from the Estonian official language, 30 years from the recreating of the tricolor from the Tall Hermann Tower and 30 years from the Baltic Way. The Riigikogu also celebrated its 100th anniversary this year, where both a special postmark and a book about the history of Estonian parliamentarianism were issued. The length of the history of Estonian parliamentary democracy is not comparable to a thousand-year-old Iceland. However, our parliamentary democracy began at the same time as Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and many other countries. In 1920 the Constituent Assembly approved the Constitution, which was one of the most democratic in Europe, also allowing popular referendums. It was declared that the Estonian people want to live an independent state life as a nation state. Forever, as our constitution today confirms. The 1934 coup d'état of Pätsi-Laidoner brought about changes. The so-called silent era began. Parliament was suspended. Political opponents were muzzled and rejected from state life. State Elder Päts took the lead in overcoming his mandate and violating the Constitution. The political governance model was characterised by authoritarianism and the presidential regime. The lack of discussion and true democracy was certainly one of the reasons that led us to the imprisonment of the totalitarian occupation regime, where everything was subordinate to Moscow, the Communist Party and its perverted ideology. The memory of independence and European democracy lived on in the hearts of the people throughout the occupation. The will and ability to realise our goals and exploit political circumstances brought us back to freedom as the Soviet Union collapsed. 28 years ago, the Supreme Council announced the restoration of Estonia's independence in this very hall, in cooperation with the Estonian Committee. We were able to rebuild our country, a country with parliamentary democracy, where there is a separation of powers, and democratic values and human rights are guaranteed for every person. The principle of separation of powers means a clear definition and balance of functions of different powers, legislative, executive and courts. If there is a loss of balance, democracy suffers. All levels must play according to the mandate and rules laid down for them in the Constitution. Quoting Lennart Merit: 'Can't play checkers [malet], making checkups in the meantime. ' Ladies and gentlemen, Politics is the art of disputes, negotiations and agreements. The Riigikogu is the place where political agreements and decisions are made on the basis of the will of the people. This should not be a place for creating or cultivating conflicts. Parliament has a role that no one else can play. We represent all the Estonian people here. Even if the political opponents do not like the election results. This brings me to the 2019 Riigikogu elections, where the Reform Party received the most votes, followed by the Centre Party, the Conservative People's Party, the Fatherland and, last but not least, the Social Democratic Party. As a result of the negotiations, the majority coalition was formed between the Central Party, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Fatherland, and on this basis the government was formed with Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. The coalition represents the will of the majority of Estonian voters. It is a democratic social process that everyone needs to accept rationally. Because of the protracted coalition negotiations, our spring work period was short. This situation must definitely be corrected now. In the coming months and years, efforts must be made to adopt and implement decisions and principles leading to the life of Estonia through legislative measures. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It has been a tradition in Estonia to give the new coalition a hundred days without criticism and this line has so far been pursued. The custom was not followed this time. There were no hundreds of days without criticism or anger, no spring, no summer. This practice was violated by the opposition, the press and the president, who announced a hundred hate-free days on 24 April, but soon reported to the foreign media that he hated a parliamentary party with a mandate from a nation. Hate is an emotion. The governance of the state and the work of the parliament must be rational activities. Unfortunately, emotions often dominate Estonia. Somewhere, intelligence and argumented discussion have disappeared and have been replaced by baseless accusations and tagging. In self-critical terms, there is still much room for improvement in terms of political culture in Estonia. The announcement of confrontation, the exclusion of cooperation and discussion, the spreading of lies and fears towards the coalition and government departments and the violation of Estonia's reputation on foreign media do not honor the opposition or mainstream media. At this point, however, I would also like to call on more restraint from the coalition, including the representatives of my own party, so as not to give myself the opportunity to understand their words differently or to exploit their maliciously. Ladies and gentlemen, The Republic of Estonia is and will remain a democratic sovereign parliamentary nation state created on the basis of the undying right of self-determination of the Estonian people in order to preserve the Estonian nation, language and culture. It's written into our constitution. This must be the inevitable imperative of all constitutional institutions. I'm not tired of saying it again. It is this principle and this objective that we are all obliged to follow. This is also why we are in the European Union and NATO. At the same time, as a national parliament, we need to be good that the European Union's immigration policy, the discrediting of traditional European values and the hidden federalisation trends do not jeopardise our constitutional imperatives. The European Union must and must remain a union of sovereign states. Our activities and activities are inevitably linked to a changing international situation and policy. It is important to us what Brexit will become, what will become of the European Union. We must closely monitor Russia with regard to the latest aggression and military exercises. Relaxing sanctions without changing Russia's behaviour is out of the question. Unfortunately, what happened at ENPA makes us cautious. As a result, NATO's stronger presence is the main priorities of Estonia's security, as is the strengthening of transatlantic relations with our biggest ally, the United States. It is, of course, important to continue and deepen good relations with all our allies and friends. Ladies and gentlemen, In Jubilee, we're used to looking at the past, so did I. From the past, however, we can reach the future through this moment of time. We must leave our children and grandchildren a beautiful, stable and successful Estonia. The Riigikogu must actively contribute to solving long-term problems. This requires more initiative from the Riigikogu, greater awareness of its role and independence and only the adoption of high-quality and rational laws. It would certainly also help to increase the public's trust in the Riigikogu as an institution. The number of challenges and the reach that we need to tackle in legislation is high. This work is difficult but certainly inspiring and inspiring. I very much hope that our work in the Riigikogu will be more cooperative and understanding, because together we can do much more for Estonia than we have done until now or in opposition to each other. I wish you all a good start to the new season, sober thinking, respect for your colleagues and effective discussions. Long live Estonia, live democracy! Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U5	Madam President, I would like to ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U6	Mr President Rüütel! Dear Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu board! Prime Minister! The Government of the Republic! Happy New Season! But I'm worried about the horizon. Horizon. More specifically, the one behind the horizon. There are so many clues we should pull. The threads that lead us to new opportunities. New findings that contribute to growth and progress. The clues that arose from our efforts to date, our hopes to date, and our desire to fulfill those hopes. But also clues that today seem to lead to concerns and pains in our society. But you know, there is great potential for these clues too: if we are not afraid, if we start to branch out now, they may prove to be not a concern for patching up and mitigating the need, but a sign of the road leading to continued success. Each nation's history finds the moment when disaster became a later success. Let's remember. Our monetary reform, which brought us out to the euro area for 20 years without fear of the durability and strength of our money. Born of the need to restore people's faith in the value of money and the promises of the state. We're a proportionate tax system. Born of the inability to manage a complex model and the need to motivate the earning of ever-increasing wages as well as fair declaration. Our e-governance. Born of our inability to rebuild a country full of paper and offices. Does this line have to end here? No, you don't. We still have clues like that. Lots of promise and such, which at first sight are more likely to be deluded. We're oil shale energy. It is obvious that one sector will soon become two: oil shale and energy production separate ways. Similarly, we must also be able to look separately at energy production and the possible social problems and solutions of people involved in oil shale mining today. Energy production must turn green, oil shale will wait until we find a more environmentally friendly application. For decades, the Tallinn University of Technology has also studied how to use oil shale products without releasing carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. At the same time, energy production goes its own way, regardless of whether the agreement between European countries by 2050 is climate neutrality or 80% climate neutrality. The measures we need are the same. Greener alternatives must be made welcome in our networks. It's easy to do with the law, but it's a little more complicated through the creation of green, fast reserves. Because without such reserves, there may be a lot of green production capacity, but somewhere there is still a system in place to maintain a polluting reserve. These reserves may also be offered by the market, but in this case we must also create this reserve market, and that is once again the work of this hall. Green reserve technologies are entirely available, but they also need to have this space in the market. The necessary restructuring will provide new breathing for the developers of smart network-based high load dispersal services, even for the development of a production timing market. Anyway, it's all in your hands. It makes sense to create this famous legal space for new Estonian technologies again, which is susceptible and allows for it, in order to avoid investing in the state's own needs. In this way, we will ensure the development of a flexible energy production and storage mechanism, which is likely to differ from today in terms of the diversity of opportunities. High CO2 prices and high daily price fluctuations in the market will create new opportunities and alternatives for us if we are fast adaptors. These alternatives will not arise if we hold on to yesterday's day with public money, whether it be production or reserves. And these alternatives arise when, together with our Nordic market partners and our southern network development partners, we set a common goal: regional energy independence, but now in an environmentally friendly form. There are already some ideas that can be realised quickly: for example, together with the Nordic countries and using the Connecting Europe Facility, we could develop the necessary network infrastructure for offshore wind farms, which private companies can use to merge their offshore wind parks. At the same time, both the opportunity and the source of our concerns continue to be a bit frustrated and outdated e-state from within. The e-state even needs extra money to maintain the level of services today, but at the same time it needs to prepare for the moment when the quantum computers are making today's identification methods completely ineligible. We need to think about how we have rapid and budgetaryly accessible access to new models of identification, which, fortunately, are already being developed here in the private sector. And much before that moment, we need to find the resources to improve outdated user interfaces, to maintain the necessary cyber security, to ensure that the once-only principle is consistently ensured by the smoother exchange of information between systems, when it makes public service consumption more convenient. In addition to budgeting, the work of this hall is, of course, the adaptation of legislation. Our new services, e-government services, are more proactive than our algorithms decide to go somewhere to help on the basis of someone or information gathered about something. For this we need a new social agreement. It has been so far that the state does not use its data without the knowledge of the owner to make a decision about someone. In some pilot services, such as an extra pension for a single-living pensioner, we are already out of the paradigm: we provide a service to a person so that he does not even need to know it exists. If we're talking about paying money, then maybe everybody's okay with it. But, for example, the NEET Youth Act brings social worker NEETs to the door for help because the system says: this young person does not work, does not study, does not have a child at home. This is a necessary service, as is demonstrated by the large number of young people who have benefited from it. However, in order to provide such services, we must renew the agreement between the state and citizens on the use of data. The idea of when and how an e-governance citizen will be able to give up such services needs to be updated. Today's law says that when a social worker comes to the door, you can refuse. But by then, the collection of information has already taken place. Are we in agreement with this, or do we want an earlier opt-out? How can this be resolved as a general principle rather than by the law of each proactive service? If we do not find a single and easily understandable and communicative solution, people's trust in their data to the state may begin to decline. No one but the Riigikogu, but you, can answer here. No one but you and your discussions can lead us to a new social understanding. We are taking the third major problem: our convergence school, which shows signs of stratification, despite the fact that they are still insignificant compared to most countries in the world. But they do exist. Teachers of one Tartu elective school note the reduced competitiveness of those coming from rural schools in Tartu's hinterland compared to ten years ago. It's a sign of danger. A quick response is needed so that every child from every Estonian school can still reach the University of Tartu and other good higher education institutions, regardless of the thickness of the parent's wallet and the family's place of residence. Our school of convergence is national wealth. It must not disappear. This is a guarantee of social mobility; it is the most important element of future social cohesion that we are currently in charge of maintaining. There will be a lot of uncertainty in the future, so let's keep at least the little part of the future that we understand today. We also have boys and young men who drop out of school-universities who obviously need a renewed educational model faster than girls. We have Estonians in a wide world who need a global school for their children, which offers a full Estonian upper secondary school education through online learning. A more technological school is part of the solution to all three problems. Research shows that girls always had better English grades before the Internet came into their children's lives, but now they have boys. In the past, children of one age were predicted to have similar knowledge, and now they are no longer, in very different subjects. So our school has to change. Instead of teaching, the school must become a supported place of study where each child in the class can deal with a little different things, if necessary, with the help of the educational materials available to him. Clearly, these materials will provide feedback-based tasks, allowing children to move to a new level of knowledge and link knowledge in different fields. Yeah, it's all starting to look like computer games that maybe give us, the elderly, a little creepy, but it gives our kids a way of learning that meets their expectations and needs. At the same time, despite technological school development, we must make a special effort to develop children's communication skills and their ability to function as a society. School becomes a place where the basic general competence, as it is called today, must be the high art of being human, the development of empathy, understanding and understanding the functioning of society. In social education, children should also be better prepared for understanding democracy, opportunities for participation in the democratic process and the accompanying responsibility. The knowledge of young people about why the rule of law is important must be improved, why it is not always up to the majority to decide what universal human rights mean at all, why it is important to have freedom of the media and freedom of expression, how to impose yourself without bullying, both at school and later at work. A society without violence is born of high social skills. We still have a very long way to go here. There are still many other areas of concern in which we can find opportunities. There is no time, today or in the future, for one speech to unthink them all and offer solutions. We have made an administrative reform that was not accompanied by a reform of municipal funding. Without significant direct tax revenue, the use of which the central government does not prescribe, the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. the principle of local self-determination, is not conceivable in the management of Estonia. We trust our municipalities, we trust them more! Much of them have the skills, the smart people, and the initiative to give them more space and freedom of action. We are an ageing population, an increasing need to prevent diseases in order to remain a country with a functioning health care system that is not overly affected by health costs. Our state of public health, the genetic property or just common sense have become predictable with a large number of health problems that can be avoided and mitigated by counseling. Our universities, the best of which is at the top of the world, are among the 300 best schools, although as the only alma mater in the world, teach our children in Estonian, but where the lack of money inherent in the non-consolidated sector is increasingly evident. Kohtla-Järve and soon Jõhvi Gymnasium, who has courageously decided to jump into unknown water, encouraging study in Estonian only. Lack of a similar solution in Narva. Sillamäemen who work hard to enable their children to learn in Estonian. Our well-informed social sector, where there are many people with great hearts who, with Norwegian and European money, with the support and inspiration of good self-governance, often driven by their own problems, has created an area of best knowledge that cannot provide the best service due to the lack of attention of managers, because the words are always greater than the budget can. We help centers of sexual violence, which have been working for years with the support of individual enthusiasts, who see a clear increase in the number of converts and realise that if the state does not systematically increase power, we have deceived those to whom we say: don't be silent, come and tell us what happened! Our young people, who want a non-violent Estonia, where all children grow in safe families, unacquired patterns that say: power, badger and coarseness are the things that are important in life and carry on. In short, all those who believe in miracles. Who doesn't think that the world is an inevitable nail and tooth against a tooth in the struggle for life, where it wins a stronger, more skinny and cynical. All those who are not yet disappointed, who are not yet cynical, who do not do things in their own narrow interest. Behind us is the Constitution of Estonia. Behind us is an international circle of friends who rely on similar fundamental values. And we rely on those who have fewer freedoms and fewer opportunities than we do. But we also have a self-confident parade of stupidity. This proud incompetence and a condescending attitude towards deepening, science, education, this is also a clue that shows us the problem, the place of concern, but we can successfully turn it into cultural success, language innovation, scientific innovation, political innovation. Today, continuing to stand up for universal human rights and democratic values is often uncomfortable, attackable and derogatory. But it really is in those moments of history that are rather complicated, which is what Estonia is really like. Democratic or totalitarian silence? Liberty-loving or scary? Respecting power or values? Clever new solutions or expensive holding on to old ones? Curious about the exciting possibilities of the world, or suspiciously self-absorbed? You in this Chamber are the ones who are directly responsible for the answers to these questions. You are free to design these answers, however, within the limits of the Constitution that the Estonian people have approved. You are free to make your decisions, but not entirely in accordance with the Constitution, you must respect the expectations of all Estonian people, not just the expectations of your constituents. You are the guardians of the rule of law, and this is a greater responsibility than just being a legislator. There can be no escape from this responsibility, no group identity, no hiding behind the political group's position. Do your decisions deal with matters of importance to society? I believe they are. Can an Estonian person continue to believe in the Constitution and the promises made by the laws of his country, even in the very long term? I believe he can. You can create hope, you can create confidence, but also cynicism and conviction that everyone, even in this Chamber, stands only for their own or for the interests of the narrow circle. Well, I wish care and goodness could win. And I think it's gonna win. Because it's all in your hands, dear Riigikogu. Good luck! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U7	Thank you. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U9	Thank you. Veronika Portsmuth's Choir Academy concert choir performance performed by Doris Kareva and Tõnu Kõrvits with the title "Mother's Singing." Thank you to the singers and their conductor Veronika Portsmuth. [[Let's hear it.]] And now I ask you to rise in the hall, the President of the Republic of Estonia is leaving. Now, honourable members of the Riigikogu, we will proceed with today's sitting and everyone will have the opportunity to hand over drafts and questions. The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U10	Dear Chairman, Good Riigikogu! Today the Government of the Republic initiates 14 draft laws and submits two draft decisions of the Riigikogu. First, the draft law amending the consular law and related amendments to other laws. Secondly, the draft law amending the law on the External Action Service and related amendments to other laws. Thirdly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Tourism Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Japan on the right to work. In the Riigikogu, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Foreign Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of these three draft laws. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Energy Economy. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the process of processing the above-mentioned draft laws. Sixthly, the draft Act ratifying the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the European Space Agency on the Accession of Estonia to the Convention establishing a European Space Agency. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology Kert Kingo. Seventh, the draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws. Eighthly, the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act, the Local Government Council Election Act, the Riigikogu Election Act, the Referendum Act and the Penal Code. The ninth draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Accepting the Fundamentals of Criminal Policy until 2030'. 10th, approval of the Riigikogu decision 'The Fundamentals of Legislative Policy until 2030'. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg represents the Government of the Republic when dealing with two draft laws and two draft decisions of the Riigikogu. Eleventh, draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection. The draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment, when processing the above draft laws. 13th, the draft law amending the Maritime Labour Act and the Maritime Safety Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. By the fourteenth, the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Education and Research Mailis Reps when the bill is being processed. Fifteenth, draft law amending the Citizenship Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by Mart Helme, the Minister of the Interior, when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. And by the 16th, the draft law amending the law on military service and other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme. Happy season, strength to work!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U11	Next, Üllar Saaremäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U12	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the Estonian state is to ensure the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. Therefore, on behalf of the Estonian Central Party, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Fatherland party, I am passing the decision 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic to strengthen the vitality, development and learning of the Estonian language'. On the basis of § 154 (1) of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, we propose to the government to develop an Estonian language development plan for the years 2021 to 2035, the ten principles of which are listed in the draft. This draft deals very widely with the development of the Estonian language, starting with the role of the Estonian language in the public space, everyday life and ending with the digital field. The principles listed in the draft are specific. We need the Estonian language development plan to cover all levels of education and all areas of research and life. We also foresee the preservation of the diversity of Estonian language from regionally specific figures, which play an important role in the identity of Estonians, and end up with sign language. In our view, the government must look at the education system more broadly. We give the government the task of developing a specific and detailed plan for the development of education in Estonian, enabling children to study in Estonian at all levels of school. The end result must be that our education system guarantees everyone good language skills. I come from Ida-Virumaa, studied in Kohtla-Järve. I would point out that special attention is paid to the situation of the Estonian language in Ida-Virumaa. The latest news about the state gymnasium there is a real example of how political decision, motivated school management and local support guarantee education in Estonian. This shows that greater attention to the language environment in Ida-Virumaa is important. A debate of substance! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U13	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted 17 drafts and the Management Board decides how to deal with them in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. But now I have a few messages to tell the honourable Riigikogu. Today, following the end of the plenary session, the next set-up of support groups will be held in this Chamber. First, the support group for the protection of the hydroelectric power plant in Linnamäe, the co-counser Kai Rimmel. And second, the Life support team, the convener Annely Akkermann. And thirdly, I would like to remind my honourable colleagues that, since today's sitting, you are all invited to celebrate our inaugural session, to celebrate the beginning of the new season in the White Hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U14	But now I'd like you to check your presence. We'll get to the agenda. Now, there are 89 parliamentarians in this House, there are no 12. Next, I shall vote on the approval of the agenda for the first working week of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. The draft agenda is approved by 78 delegates, one against, no abstentions and no 10 delegates. So the agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-09_U15	Everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. There are no requests, the trial is adjourned. I wish you a happy new session. Closure of the sitting at 15.46 p.m.
