ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 5th working week of the IXth plenary session of the XIIIth Riigikogu. Does anyone have a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? No, it's not. Incoming check, please! 62 members of the Riigikogu are in plenary. [[It's ringing the bell.]] I understand it's an exciting week, but it's still important. Adoption of the agenda. Here's a little bit of a clarification. In particular, the Committee on Social Affairs has proposed to exclude point 4 from the agenda of the Thursday sitting of the working week, the second reading of draft 779. With this amendment, I shall put to the vote the agenda for the fifth working week of the IX plenary session. Please take a stand and vote. There were 60 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, 1 abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U2	Free mike. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, The whole weekend was seen and heard by anxious politicians who demanded the completion of their studies in their native language to the Russians and, at the same time, understood the so-called concerned citizens who did not want the Russians to attend a school with their children. Hypocrite and disgusting. It's inappropriate for a 21st-century country. Not in accordance with the spirit of our constitution. Estonian Constitution § 37 says: "Everyone has the right to receive instruction in Estonian. The language of instruction shall be chosen by the educational institution at the educational establishment of the national minority. ' § 49: 'Everyone has the right to maintain his or her national identity. ' § 51: 'Everyone has the right to address state institutions, local governments and their officials in Estonian and to receive answers in Estonian. In places where at least half of the permanent population is a minority, everyone has the right to receive answers from public authorities and local authorities and their officials in the language of that minority. ' § 52: 'In areas where the language of the majority of residents is not Estonian, local governments may use the language of the majority of permanent residents of the local area as an internal working language to the extent and according to the procedure laid down in the law. ' It was an excellent compromise for us to create a state ♪ Estonia as the only place in the world guarantees education in the Estonian language, Estonian-language administration, Estonian-language administration, but all national minorities also have the right to study in their own language, to preserve their nationalities, in some cases to do business in their own language. Estonians respect other native languages alongside our beautiful native language. By the way, teaching science does not in any way confirm that a foreign language is necessarily and always acquired better when all other subjects, such as physics, are also studied in that language. Therefore, the issue of these Russian-speaking demonizers is not really that we should give all the children who are studying here a lingua franca to communicate with each other, and the best possible education in life. No, banning teaching in Russian is an ideological desire to assimilate, denying the Russian-speaking minority here the right to its own ethnicity. You don't have to do that. The proportion of Russian-speaking people has remained the same since 1991, which is about a third. Yes, these were specific historical circumstances in which our people became such, but we cannot change these circumstances afterwards. It's better to accept the fact that we're all here together. Instead of transforming the minority in a linguistic or mental way, we could focus on each individual's right to receive the best possible education. As our Constitution says, Estonian is privileged, but all other cultures are our value and wealth. Thus, Russian-language school education is also a feature of Estonia, our wealth, our value, not the object of fighting and suppressing. I would remind you that it is very difficult to be loyal to a country that suppresses your native language and does not allow you to celebrate important holidays. I would remind you of Southern Tyrol until the Italian State tried to Italianise the region, re-transform it linguistically and architecturally, so far the region was distrustful, poor and full of tension. Now that German-speaking people have their own kindergartens, their own-language schools, street signs and free movement, and one of Italy's most prosperous regions has been carefully developed from the region with the help of the state, it is peaceful. Everyone speaks Italian. And you know, when they speak German, they gesture like Italians. This is Europe's best example of national policy. Let's set an example. All the more so since, in fact, this is the scenario that our constitution envisages. Let's put our own constitution into practice! For the first step, I propose that we release this Russian school and Russian-language education. Let upper secondary school be an educational institution. In upper secondary school, we talk about how to provide the best possible education for each child, regardless of the language of instruction. The choice of language of instruction is a pedagogical choice. This is not our choice of politicians, it is the choice of teachers, as our constitution says. Let's not paddle over the tongue. Let's really move on, actually do the education policy, let's not crowd anybody around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U4	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen of the verbatim department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu! Although we still have three days here, there are a lot of draft items on the agenda and I will probably have more than one thematic speech on the draft, this is basically a farewell speech. This is because, on Thursday night, there is no longer such an opportunity under the Rules of Procedure. I first came to this speaker's desk 27 and a half years ago when I had to present a report on a draft constitution at the beginning of the work of the Constitutional Assembly. After that, I've been talking about a variety of topics here, probably several hundred times. Finally, I would like to say a few assessments of the composition of the XIII Riigikogu and, secondly, to make some forecasts of the next composition of the XIV Riigikogu. Now, if there was anything general about XIII's composition, it was a major stagnation. There have probably been no other members of the Riigikogu as much as there have been, then perhaps a few are. Why do I say that? The reason is that almost no seriously important question moved forward during its composition in the Estonian state and in Estonian politics. Everything stood still. Because those who wanted to make any changes did not have the strength to achieve them, and others who were in power did not want to carry them out. What's to say? First of all, the role of being a rubber stamp of the Riigikogu continued in this composition, just as it had been the three previous Riigikogu formations. There weren't a lot of changes. What else can I tell you? The most important development of this four year period is probably what has been called an administrative reform. This is probably the scariest package of changes ever made in Estonia. The next formations, and perhaps the next generation, have reason to come back to these questions again. In our four years there were also at least two very large sets of topics that were ignored for various reasons. Of these, the biggest and most social lie is everything involved in the construction of Rail Baltic. I do not know how the people who brought us into this are thinking of bringing the Estonian state and people out of it. The second question relates to the forestry cutting policy, which became particularly important during our membership. There's been a slight change, because one factory didn't come, but it's probably not enough. If we now consider politics to be a collective action by society in the interests of common interest, we can say that XIV is left with all the things that have not been done at the moment, and probably also with all the things that have not been done in previous electoral periods, including normalisation of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure. I was hoping the board would take it in the meantime, but unfortunately he didn't. So these things are going to stay. The Riigikogu does not play a major role in de facto politics in Estonia, apart from the government being set up with the results of the elections. But the question is, what do those who prove to be elected for four years do here? And my prediction is that if there is no change, instead of parliamentary politics, the future will be part of street politics in Estonia. However, this is not the best future perspective for one nation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U6	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U7	Honorable Chairman! Colleagues! I mean, last week was under a star like this, saying how the importance of teachers, their image and their prestige should be increased. It is as if very big steps have been taken to raise the level of minimum wage for teachers have been raised, etc. But pay is not what raises prestige, and the law is not what raises prestige. Traffic law says no speeding, but everyone's speeding. So then the law doesn't do this thing, something else does. This other thing is social opinion, social feelings, and civic orders and requirements for things. Who do teachers raise? Teachers raise children. I don't want to refer to anything derogatory, but let's start with Aaviksoo and start with Lukas, I mean the education ministers, whose editing resulted in teachers becoming service providers and schools becoming service companies. This is how teachers remain service providers, since their wages, their behaviour and their rights are, in fact, those of the merchant. They must not comment on the child, they must not affect him or her. Then suddenly, at some point, the highest body in school became not the director, but the board of trustees. I mean, there were some teachers, but the director didn't belong, and at the same time someone belonged to the district government, city government or district council, and parents and politicians. How can he lead the education? Consequently, education as such was politicised and as a teacher the salt of the earth was quietly rejected. His image in the eyes of the people fell all the time, even though it was beaten from morning to evening that teachers' wages were small and small. Aaviksoo even ordered a teacher's strike, which involved some 500 to 600 or 700 people. It was on the Liberty Square. And then Aaviksoo referred to the teacher's strike that the city of Tallinn is now stealing money from the teachers and it goes on to the service staff, or logo beets and psychologists. This money must be directed to teachers and schools must be released by psychologists and logos, etc., throughout the support staff. It was destroyed because Aavixol was the reason: the teachers were on strike because the salary was small. But there was nowhere to get paid. He took away where he couldn't take it. So far, it's all about teachers and children. Children have rights, but since kindergarten, they forget to explain that they also have obligations to their families and schools, as well as to their teachers. The teacher is sacred. We take any old culture, there's a sentence "Teacher" everywhere, it's something high. Then comes Mom, Dad, and the family. If you break these things, this society won't stand. But we're completely, methodically and consistently demolishing it. Please put order in the house and call on common sense, next Riigikogu! Let's get started again, from where the baby's born. And when he becomes two years old, let's see how we're going to cultivate his personality rather than let him become a person at the age of six, so that the rest of his life should deal with how to hide his shortcomings or how he can cope in an unhealthy and hostile environment, or country. Let's think about it as a whole. If there is a good economy, there should also be a good education. But a good education comes when there is a motivated youth. If there is no motivated youth, then it is therefore pointless to deal with matters such as raising the teacher's salary. The teacher has not yet been defined, nor has the XIII membership. Who's the teacher? The teacher is not the one standing in front of the class. The teacher is a top-ranking master. He's not a waitress, he's a top executive. And his pay starts with the top executive's salary. So at school, the teacher has a capital letter. A teacher with a small initial letter is a teacher, a teacher, a lecturer and a bunch who fills holes when there are no teachers. Please, let's get this over with! Thank you and the strength for us! Long live Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U8	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that Eiki Nestor and Enn Frontland are so tired of faces, one stage was completed and do not know what our role now was here. But, in fact, I want this often doesn't happen to you, Riigikogu Board, to praise. And there are several reasons for that. Firstly, the Committee on Legal Affairs had very good cooperation with the Board of the Riigikogu. The things we planned, we got. Secondly, you also managed to prevent one of the structural reforms planned in this house and which would have been very confusing. I think it would have weakened Parliament's role and quality. I'm not going into nuances, but the chart I saw and was introduced to me was not reasonable. Thank you for putting that right. The new Parliament that comes can take its own time to think about how to improve the quality of its role. On the one hand, when we say that legislation comes in many ways from ministries, there are large legal services and there are law firms, our permanent committees have to deal with the staff that is. Rather, you might think about doing this long-spoken wage reform and dramatically raising the salaries of the professional staff of our permanent committees. Secondly, I will look at a few keywords. Jüri Adams claimed that he was sad that Parliament was still a rubber seal, and he did not see any leap of development. Maybe it depends on the position, because I'm more optimistic. If I look at the fact that politicians, also power politicians, who have formed the coalition, were able to bring on the table topics that are not in the coalition agreement and create a debate here, then this is also the quality mark of the Riigikogu. I would like to highlight even the strengthening of parliamentary supervision that we did on the basis of the Danske Bank case. We have had a debate on a matter of national importance on this issue, we have had hearings, we have prepared proposals and we have also forwarded them to the Prime Minister. Parliament often does not have to reach a decision, but also the initiation of a debate, debate, debate for and against a democratic rule of law is already of value. The next item is the VEB Fund. If in 1993 the Riigikogu itself intervened in private relations, took responsibility, then there is no point in hiding it in the sand because it is an unpleasant matter for anyone and saying that we are not dealing with it. Whatever it was, let's move on. There are others who are hurt in society. It may not be the fifth, sixth or seventh place or behind for anyone in the ranking. However, this is an issue that is unsolved. Mr. Luik, the soon-to-be state judge, has written a dissenting opinion on this; I recommend that everyone read it. It is embedded in facts and also in a philosophical account of justice at all. I hope that this text will soon reach you, too, and you will be better aware of it. We also dealt with freedom fighters and rehabilitation. Here, too, we could say that we did not agree on this in the coalition agreement, but it was also the case that there were co-thinkers from each party. The events of 1934 and dealing with them are also a matter of the vitality of Estonian life. These are yet another issue that we do not want to address because they hurt our soul or are somehow unpleasant and raise new questions. But dealing with unpleasant issues also gives our people vitality, keeps our memory up, and makes it possible to avoid such mistakes better in the future. Also, the issue of the pensions of military and police officers. So there are topics that came from outside the framework of the coalition. I'm looking optimisticly. Rather, the Riigikogu is moving in the direction that Parliament is a sovereign, not a rubber stamp. I saw a lot of positive moments. Let's go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U10	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U11	Good President and few colleagues. George Adams said a lot about what I wanted to say myself. Yeah, unfortunately, we're mostly a rubber stamp, except for a few exceptions. The flag law of the ship, which we have recently adopted, is one of the few exceptions where we told the government what to do and not do as the government wanted. But there are few. But there are many accidents at work. The administrative reform in which Jüri and I were parties together in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, although we voted against it, as is the case with the current coalition, is still being carried out. We have not even been able to change Ülenurme's name, only to change its name, even though it has been a long time since the reform. Rail Baltic through the swamps of Pärnumaa, not through Tartumaa, where there are people, etc. The pulp mill was forced to stick it on the shores of the Emajõgi River, the cluster bill with which we started to develop the Northern Latvia regional programme, it is in a few hundred million volums, while the South East Estonia programme is in a fewty million volums. Exercising the treaty quite recently here. Sneaking up on a multiplicity. Yeah, we finished fine-tuning, but where did we get to? Indrek Neivelt asked on July 20th 2017 about six months after the end of the fine-tuning period, that it was interesting when the cap would fly away and the singing revolution vol 2. It seems to me that we are quite close to it, because 30 years ago, when the singing revolution began, there were three important keywords: environment, migration, remembering, phosphorite mines, and whether sovereignty would come, whether we would remain independent. Today, 30 years later, there are actually the same problems. And indeed, I ask again in Neivelt's way when the cap will fly out of front and the singing revolution vol 2. In the last few days, when I've met people, they've been very evil. For a person who receives EUR 1 200 000, the income tax is over 31%, but for us and those with more than 2000 it is less. I haven't been able to answer people. It's been asked what you motherfuckers have done in there. So it's not all black, actually stagnation, it's a quiet move for the better, but in any case it's a pre-rare atmosphere. So we're still living. It's gonna be spring soon. Rats are already extinct on the slope of Tallinn Toompea, lying down. Young children and tourists wonder, " What is happening there, are such spring publishers? ' Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U12	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U13	You have the utmost respect for the Vice President of the Riigikogu! A very honest colleague! I was also thinking that I might have said a speech from this speech chair, that it might have happened that I didn't have any speech from this speech chair. A ma'i oli õõnõõljaga väljaga tuuh, et all om võõlstõänüü. Very paljo om good things tetty, very paljo om those things that es reach not tetä. I'm a pee-pee-pee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee-wee. And the noodle's gonna be the next one. I regret with my power that the composition of the Riigikogu is bound by the fact that Estonia may have divided its future into the Kattõ zone. What was the gift of sharing the Estonian Kattõ zone? Tõud et Tallinn saasi nii ümmi European Union funds and the rest of Estonia, säälkoguh South-East Estonia, saasi then korgõmba korva korvaatud European Union funds. Uskõ, sääne jagaminõ gives not only an opportunity to the Estonian state, but also an obligation to tettä sõhõmbat regional policy and the future h oom tu tuts sõppas Estonian state's regional policy options. And the religionist, too, if the outskirts of South-East Estonia or the areas on the ledge are not exposed, then Tallinn toldä kavva will not answer the pä. So the strength of the post-sõõli formation and the formation of the wind thing don't. If you come back, try the tetä. Now he said a good thing he could walk about. The members of the Riigikogu often asked them that they shouldn't do so. Well, then I'm gonna walk, too, so I think I'm gonna tell you the thing I'm proud of. Don't do it, and I didn't say it. And that was a sine thing, so if Vinne had to take the ugly cars, then we had to drive there a waiting area and we had to masma those massages. Now the European Commission, after all, has told Estonia that it must not be so that noodle säädysseys, which squeamishly ugly masma these masses, meet the silly säädysseys. In fact, there were a lot of things on the side of the tetägi border, the asphalt pile was just pushed into the lacquer, a certain cash register was set up to register cars and somebody had massõti money. I believe that the next composition will also make up for this matter and be possible, then state the sum of the mass õtu sum of the piäsi kommensiirmä õõõli nou. About the third, let's not forget that all of a sudden figures tahah om always ensnaring. To the next composition: create a wart with your soul, create a wart with your heart, don't think about it first hindäle, mõõõgõ Eesti pääle, then Latvia Estonia well. And a hippopotamus. Aitümä to you, my colleague, who you oliõtt paljo was to me from the example of a green one, who dismays. Aitümä sulõi, the people of the house, who were in the straw, the akni of Mõsksõ, who were in the dust, who were throwing a hammer here, who were in the records, who avit kõdõga. Olya, it's all right, it's all right! Give me an ear! Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-18_U14	Thank you, Inara! There's no more calls. That concludes today's session, but not yet our term of office. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 3.30 p.m.
