ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-08_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Attention! We will begin the second working week of the first session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-08_U2	Today we have the honour and opportunity to hear the oath of the member of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Lotman. Please, Mikhail Lotman!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-08_U3	Taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as a member of the XIV Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-08_U4	Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to hand over draft laws or enquiries? There is no request for referral of inquiries or drafts. Let's go to the messages. Ladies and gentlemen, today, after the end of the plenary session, there will be start-up meetings of the next parliamentary groups in this Chamber. First, Estonian-Japan, the convener is Kaido Höökelson. Secondly, Estonia and China, the convener is Kalev Kallo. Third, Estonia-Portugal, the convener is Aivar Sõerd. Fourthly, Estonian-Czech Republic, the convener is Aivar Sõerd. Fifthly, Estonia-Finland, the convener is Kalle Palling. Sixthly, Estonia and Germany, the convener is Kalle Palling. Seventhly, the United States of America, the convener is Andres Sutt. Eighth, Estonia-Latvia, the convener is Aadu Must. The ninth, the Kingdom of Thailand, is called by Valdo Randpere. The tenth, Estonian-Ukraine, is convened by Johannes Kert. By the eleventh, Estonian-Lithuania, the convener is Taavi Rõivas. By the twelfth, the Republic of Korea is called by Urve Tiidus. By the thirteenth, Estonian-Austrian, the convener is Jaak Madison. By fourteenth, Estonian-Hungarian, the convener is Jaak Madison. The next set-up meetings of the support groups will also take place here today after the end of the plenary session. First, the Pärnumaa Support Group, the convener is Annely Akkermann. Secondly, the Tallinn-Helsinki permanent connection building support group, convened by Kristen Michal. Thirdly, the island support team, the convener is Urve Tiidus. Fourthly, the sports and exercise support group, convened by Jüri Jaanson. Fifthly, the Rail Baltic support team, the convener is Andres Metsoja. Ladies and gentlemen, now the presence check. 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9. Let's go to the agenda. I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the second working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft agenda, with 2 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-08_U5	And now, ladies and gentlemen, a free microphone. Everyone can register for speaking after the hammer hit. There are no requests to speak. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 3:06 p.m.
