ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu and Honourable Ministers. Let's start the three-day briefing, this year's final briefing. First, we'll do a presence check. There are 49 members of the Riigikogu. The following members of the Government will take part in Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. As always, first the members of the registered Riigikogu can ask a question in order, who can also ask a more specific question, and then the quickest question can be asked from the hall. Members of the Riigikogu have two minutes to ask a question and ministers have three minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U2	Let's get started. First, Kaja Kallas asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U3	Thank you. Good George! It seems that you and I rarely agree on anything lately, but one thing we do agree on is Mart Helme's statement about the Prime Minister of Finland, Sanna Marin. Mart Helme later said that he thought it was a recognition, but you and I realized that it was an insult, an insult against a young woman who, despite her difficult social background, became Prime Minister. The day before yesterday, when Mart Helme denied it all day long, you may have been able to convince him so much that he squeezed out an apology that didn't seem sincere at that point either. You gave that apology to Prime Minister Sanna Marin. But yesterday, after the vote of censure here in the Riigikogu, Mart Helme told the journalists: 'There must still be a serious reason for this. Then I should still have deliberately done something that is truly worth the excuse. I didn't do anything like that on purpose. ' Aren't you afraid that such a withdrawal of words after the Prime Minister, or you, has communicated them to his colleague, will have a negative impact on relations between Finland and Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, good echo! I, too, will start with the answer that, yes, certainly, when we talk about relations with Finland, when we talk about what was said by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Tre Radio, about the Prime Minister of Finland and Finland, I cannot say this in any way other than that it was an inappropriate speech, it was a bad speech, there were no positions that overlap with government policy. But most importantly, there were no links to how Estonia and Finland have actually got along with each other every day, how people have got along, how the economies have ended. Yeah, I think our positions are very similar here, or, as you said, we agree. Yeah, I had a phone conversation with the Finnish Prime Minister. Not only did I convey to him what the Minister for the Interior said, this apology, but I myself said that it was a bad signal, I am sorry for it too, but of course our relations have been good, they are good today, and I hope they will continue to develop, and I think it is very important that we work for it. At the end of your question, you came back to the statements made by the Minister of the Interior after yesterday's attempt at distrust. I really have not read this speech. But I can tell you that when I was with Mart Helme before the meeting with the journalists and we talked about this, he also made an apology to the Finnish Prime Minister during this conversation, which he also said to the journalists after. Now there is a huge discussion about whether he was sincere or not. At that point, it seemed to me that it was sincere that he did not think he was successful or good at what he said on the radio. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that, today, we must also say that, as a country, we are making an effort, and I personally work every day to build on relations with our closest neighbour so that 'bridges' are as strong as possible in all areas, whether it be infrastructure or a bridge between people. I am pleased that, for example, in defence policy, Finland and I have worked quite well together on certain foreign missions under the auspices of the United Nations, which is certainly important to us. Nor do I agree that no position can be elevated from any position, in a free democratic country, it must always be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U5	Echo Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U6	Thank you. I have a question about the vote of no confidence that took place yesterday. In this vote of distrust, 44 delegates found that they did not trust Mart Helmet, and 42 trusted Mart Helmet. Most members of the Riigikogu who took part in the vote do not trust this minister. It is your coalition partner's chairman, it is also a person who is the so-called Deputy Prime Minister, or who is such a person, he is your substitute if you are away. When will you make a management decision to dismiss a minister who does not have the trust of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U7	Thank you. About the babysitting. I do not know that there would have been deputy prime ministers in Estonia, at least restoring independence in Estonia. But this time, the way the Prime Minister is replaced has always been. It has usually been that the chairman of the second largest coalition party, or the head of the government delegation (if there is no chairman in the government), fulfils this obligation. How's he gonna baby himself? At the moment, I think he's being given more attention by the opposition as Deputy Prime Minister. I also understand the background of this babyhood. Now the question that there were more people in yesterday's vote of mistrust in the Riigikogu who said that there should be mistrust than those who said that they should be trusted. That is, I think, non-legally in this sense, a good reason for saying that you see, the majority of the Riigikogu does not trust this minister. But we still have to rely on the law and the law. The Riigikogu tells the Minister that he does not trust him if at least 51 votes have been cast in the Riigikogu. There were no 51 votes in yesterday's vote of censure, which means that the vote of censure against Mart Helme failed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'll start with your last answer. Certainly, the law does not include all that concerns the actions and conduct of one minister or the consequences of its conduct. Surely what Mart Helme caused by his conduct is part of an area that is not clearly stated in the law. As a result, this vote yesterday had several times stronger substantive significance than perhaps some of the smaller points of law that would actually provide the basis for the Minister's dismissal, but it also depends on the Prime Minister and his desire for what his team might and will look like. I am a little surprised that yesterday we learned from the honourable minister that he is the hardest worker in Estonia, he has thrown shit the most, he has plowed the field the most. I certainly agree with this argument that there is no bigger shit-sucker in today's government than Mart Helme. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] The fact that he throws shit not only at the Riigikogu but also at the Estonian people is, in my opinion, outrageous. But I don't understand the logic that, for example, your family friend every time he comes to visit you, he gets all over your face, but you take him in nicely, set the table, give him food, send him away nicely and take him back next time. How long could such a thing last? I do not regard this as very right and adequate from the point of view of the country, when our reputation is very badly damaged. I absolutely disagree if you, as Prime Minister, say that you personally apologized to the Finnish Prime Minister. That's how prime ministers communicate. I think an apology must be made in person or very personal. In that case, it is likely that an apology will be accepted and sincere. What do you think of that, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U10	Thank you very much for your very interesting questions about the cascade! I cannot honestly say, based on my little experience in Estonian politics, how these Estonian hardest and hardest worker competitions are organised. Basically, you and Mart Helme could take you to the starting line and, I don't know, to do some kind of job, so who's gonna make it? There's no competition like that, you know that. Now this family familiar image. It was quite a personal question you asked me, but no, I don't have family acquaintances or friends like that. Rather, we communicate well, in a supportive and friendly way. I hope you don't have that experience with your family friends either. I'll come back to the core of the question, I think. I also told Kaja Kallas that I cannot say in any way that it would have been better than an inappropriate, bad speech. That's right. I myself wonder, even in the last three years, how much we have done in common with the Finnish state, whether it is the creation of a cultural fund between Estonia and Finland or whether it is very serious discussions. I am pleased that the previous Finnish government and, to my mind, today's government have not completely reversed the decision to accompany the Rail Baltic project. In the Jubilee year, when Estonia held the anniversary in 2018, a joint session between Estonia and Finland was held, which was the first such joint session in history. These things show, I think, a very strong bridge. Let us take a good example of digital society. We have actually been able to move forward this year with digital recipes so that we can also use digital prescription services in Finland, the other way around is already possible. These are the things that show an extremely close relationship between these two countries. I also fully agree that this bridge must be built every hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U11	Thank you. Mr Kruuse, a meeting of the Riigikogu's Council of Elders took place on Monday, where Kaja Kallas, Chairman of your party, took up language use in the Riigikogu. We discussed the language used by both ministers and members of the Riigikogu. Your use of words here was not quite appropriate, it cannot be accepted. If you quote the Minister, please use the correct words that have been used, do not interpret or express insultingly yourself. As I have repeatedly said, both members of the Riigikogu and ministers must behave politely and respectfully. Yes, Mr. Kruuse, please! Is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U12	In the rural language, shit and manure are the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U13	It is not the same in the Riigikogu and especially in the language of a member of the Riigikogu. Mr. Ossinovski, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U14	Thank you. I was not aware of such a discussion and I think it should be of wider interest to members of the Riigikogu. How far has the body of elders or the board of directors gone when interpreting this section of the Rules of Procedure and Home Act, has a list or list of recommended or prohibited words been established? What about, for example, the use of certain uncensored expressions that you have just deplored, compared to the words of the minister, for example, when he called members of the Riigikogu brain-dead, etc.? Did this debate also lead to some more specific code of conduct for both members of the government and members of the Riigikogu, or was it just such an intellectual debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U15	Thank you. This is not a procedural issue, but since this issue concerns everyone, I say that we agreed that everyone must remain within the limits of courtesy. Thank you. Kaja Kallas, I believe that this is not a procedural issue, and that is why we are not going any further on this issue. [[Voices from the floor.]] All right. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U16	Thank you. I will simply explain to my colleague that indeed, as Henn Põljaas pointed out, I raised this issue in the Council of Elders...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U17	I am very sorry, this is not a procedural question, although we really discussed this subject, as I said. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U18	Yeah, but the result of that was just what we agreed on in the body of elders, so...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U19	Please! There's still a few hands up here. Do you have any procedural questions? Mr. Kruuse, you had your hand up first. Urmas Kruuse, please! [[K. Kallas will speak from place to place.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U20	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! For the sake of protocol, I would ask for the word'shit' to be replaced by'manure'.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U21	Please! Mr. Jaanson, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U22	I cannot judge whether this is a procedural question or not, but the President of the sitting raised a subject that caused protest in the members of the Riigikogu. How can members of the Riigikogu express their protest?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U23	You can make a statement to the management board of the Riigikogu, for example. Evgeny Ossinovski, you probably want to ask a procedural question. If this isn't a procedural question, we'll go straight ahead. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U24	In my opinion, Kaja Kallas had a very procedural question, as the debate concerns the manner in which the hearing takes place, the manner in which the sitting is conducted and the way in which the law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu is implemented in this context. Since there is a specific paragraph in the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act and you said that it has been discussed and given some interpretation to it, I think it is entirely appropriate to have Mr Kallas say what the result of the discussion of the Assembly of Elders was.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U25	Thank you. I already said that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U26	Please let us go to the next question by Mr Ossinovski. Reply to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U27	Thank you. Prime Minister! As you can imagine, my question concerns pharmaceutical policy. Yesterday, the draft pharmaceutical law, which was warmly supported by pharmaceutical merchants and initiated by your coalition, would have confirmed today's market situation, which, quoting the National Audit Office, does not guarantee patients the optimal price of medicines. From today's interview, Eesti Päevaleht had the impression that you felt somewhat uncomfortable when talking to pharmacies. Perhaps this impression is mistaken, but I would therefore like to know what your position as head of the government and coalition is on this issue. On the one hand, you said that you were not very concerned about this subject, but you said that you had attended quite a number of meetings on this subject and said that it was important to you too, in particular, that the medicines be available to patients as much as possible in terms of price. I also very much support this position. From this point of view, you will probably be happy with the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiige and the majority of the Riigikogu that the businessmen's draft failed yesterday, because, of course, the deepening of the oligopolistic market situation would lead to an increase in the price of medicines and also to a deterioration in the quality of the pharmacy service, as the businessmen's interest in this onion-Möldri bill also seemed nice. In the same interview, you said the Centre Party couldn't buy any laws. Do I correctly conclude that you are asking Tõnis Möldr and other colleagues in your group to stop serving pharmacies and to defend the patient's interests? Or more specifically, can you confirm, as head of the coalition, that since the grand hall of the Riigikogu decided yesterday that the reform of the pharmacy would not be reversed, the coalition you led will put an end to this precarious situation, which prevents the implementation of the reform of the pharmacy, and will give the Ministry of Social Affairs a clear task of ensuring that, on 1 April 2020, the 30 Estonian settlements in which the pharmacy does not yet meet the requirements can receive a pharmacist's library? Or is the agreement with businessmen so strong that the coalition will come to a new test by ditching the reform of the pharmacy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U28	Thank you, good Evgeny! First of all, a few details. As far as I am aware, this draft was initiated by three political groups: the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Pro Patria Party and the Estonian Centre Party. It was a pretty powerful title that you put in that it was a businessman's initiative. These three political parties, as well as your party, good Jevgeni, have been elected here to the XIV. I don't think tagging like that is good. Secondly, you brought out some members of the Riigikogu, Priit Sibula and Tõnis Möldri, and said that businessmen had somehow dictated them or accused them of corruption. You know very well that in this honourable Riigikogu, such accusations by a representative of the people are very serious and very powerful. If you have this information, you have to act, you can't be inaction, or you have to say it was slander and you take those words back. Now on the substantive side. You said we had a common position on access to medicines. If we're going to define it, it might be different, but basically, yes. I think that medicines are too expensive for the people of Estonia, compared to prices in many other countries. I believe that sincerely, and efforts must be made to change it. I know that several political parties see this solution to bring down the price very differently. Some are talking about total release when it comes to availability. There are thoughts to sell drugs, I don't know, in grocery stores, for example. Others who also want to lower the price of medicines say that no, this is not the right solution. So it is the political debate that is going on over the solutions. If you ask me what my position is, then yes, I think that yesterday's signal from the majority of the Riigikogu was very specific and clear. Can we see this reform being renegotiated in a body with more than three years' working time left? I'm sure we can see. But I think that this vote yesterday should also be very much guided. Now the availability. I understand that even the Ministry of Social Affairs says that this law, which will enter into force on 1 April, can also make improvements and can be improved, also due to the availability of medicines. So for this reason alone, I think it would make sense to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U29	Evgeny Ossinovski, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U30	Thank you. A few details. I didn't say it was initiated by businessmen, I said it was hotly supported by businessmen and initiated by your led coalition. I don't think I made a mistake here. Secondly, as far as the accusations of corruption are concerned, I was talking about political corruption. Political corruption is so-called "big corruption," which is assessed much more often by the voter than by the law enforcement system. But that's a certain conceptual difference. That this thing stinks, everyone knows who's ever been in politics. This is also one of the reasons why so many people in your own group felt a clear inconvenience in supporting this reform, which I personally undoubtedly welcome. I would, however, like a more specific answer. Of course, anything can be discussed, discussed here, discussed in the government, discussed in the ministry, discussed and discussed in committees. It's a matter of purpose, your goal as head of the government, the direction of the coalition. Consequently, I will clarify the question. Will a coalition under your leadership be requested before 1 April 2020 either on behalf of the government or on behalf of the coalition parties, to waive either the patent property or the ban on vertical integration? Of course, any implementing provisions can be made. Tanel Kiik has offered a number of ideas which, for some reason, have not yet been supported in the coalition working group, but which can be discussed. The fundamental question is whether the prohibition of vertical integration will remain, whether the requirement of a pharmacist's property will remain, or whether a new round will be sought before 1 April 2020 to abolish these two provisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U31	Thank you for that question. My group did what every member of the Riigikogu must do yesterday. All of these members followed their mandate and made a decision according to their conscience. That's the only way to behave. I can't imagine how else to act. Is it really possible in your political party, for example, that the chairman of the political party is ordering the Group of the Social Democratic Party to vote in this way? I don't know, you were the chairman of this party for so long. You can't go against the law, and I don't think you would have. Everyone here must vote as provided for in the principle of a free mandate. That's what decisions are made, and that's how it's supposed to be. I understand perfectly well what you are asking, Evgeny, whether this reform will be turned back 180 degrees or not. What's the actual percentage of pharmacist property, I think, you know as well as I do. The Ministry of Social Affairs is also willing to make certain changes to this law applicable from 1 April 2020. I do not at all exclude that this could really be discussed and an exchange of views on this issue. You've been in multiple coalitions. I understand you're always based on the fact that if the coalition's leading partner and, let's say, the Prime Minister says you can't do that, then that's the way it is, isn't it? The Riigikogu is free, there is a separation of powers. You call on me to break the principle of separation of powers so that I should tell the three political parties in the Riigikogu in advance that, no, you must not do this under any circumstances. But I said my personal attitude when I answered the previous question. Whether you wanted to hear it or not, I repeat this: it was a very clear and concrete signal from the majority of the Riigikogu yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U32	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U33	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! In the last part of the answer, you said that you should not interfere in the work of the group and all the ambassadors are free. It must be acknowledged that some members of the Centre Party Group have said in their discussions that they were actually forced to vote in favour of this coalition, even though they would have liked to vote against it. So this conversation may not be quite true. But on another matter, we obviously agree. On the one hand, we certainly want the Estonian consumer to receive the medicines he needs or has been prescribed by doctors at the best price. Yesterday's vote showed me that the question is, after all, who controls the price, whether the price is controlled by pharmacists or whether the wholesaler controls the price in his pharmacy, and the price effect is certainly different. But one thing surprised me yesterday when this bill was being processed. When we asked who specifically wrote this draft or where it came from, they did not really know where to answer it. The second surprise that struck me was when we found out that Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik had participated in the discussions that were held under the leadership of Priit Sibula and Mr Möldri, but there has been no proposal. In my opinion, the involvement of the Ministry of Social Affairs in this whole process has not been very reasonable; it has been very limited. As Prime Minister, are you satisfied with the way in which the Ministry is involved in possible changes to such an important reform? Hasn't Tanel Kiik, as Minister, simply been left unarmed in some ways and rejected the responsibility for what is actually happening in his own administration?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U34	Thank you. Let's start over. I remember that in the previous composition, Mr Herkel and I had very interesting discussions about the Centre Party. It seems to me that you, too, wish to hold this discussion quietly when you say that someone is forced to vote for or against the formation of this coalition. I was in that room when we made those decisions. I'll be honest with you, we've never laid a hand on good people before, so don't come to the Centre Party. On the contrary, if you are interested in knowing how these things work, what these wide-ranging discussions are, then we can discuss it with you. I remember when the last coalition started, a lot of reform parties said that you wouldn't call your party mate and tell him how to do it. This, it seems, has been your political culture, such a telephone right, isn't it, the Prime Minister is calling to do that and do that? Well, the attitudes are different, aren't they? One is a very strong chain of command, telephone law, the other is negotiation, debate. So if that's what you want, you're sincerely welcome. But if you want to come to our party and start putting your chain of command in, then, I don't think that's a good idea. Now go on with your question about the Tanel Swing. As far as I know, he put forward his proposals for this group, and they were also under discussion there. The question is whether they found support or not. So I'm definitely gonna take that argument down. You pointed out in your question the point of who controls the final price. I understand that if the pharmacy is owned by pharmacists, they will. I'm so sorry, but I'm a little different about this. Let's talk about the end price or the beginning of the price component. The drugs are still being brought to the market by pharmaceutical wholesalers. True, the point is that then the pharmacist will have the opportunity to choose where he buys this medicine or medicine, and by means of competition we will then, I hope, not only have the cheapest aspect, but certainly also the quality aspect will always remain. This must also be controlled by the State. So the debate that really is the strongest price controller in this process cannot be held so that it is then only a pharmacist. Yes, he has a choice, but it's still the one who brings the medicine to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U35	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U36	Next, question No 3, posed by Johannes Kert. This is answered by Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U37	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. A new ten-year-old or long-term defence force development plan is about to arrive at the planning process. I would like to ask you what your main postulates are in developing this plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U38	Thank you. It is indeed a very important part of the functioning of the defence sphere that we can count on at least 2% of GDP, which will enable us to plan for the long term, thanks to your support. Of course, because of this considerable amount of money at the disposal of the defence sphere every day and every year, it is also clear that our actions must be very clearly planned. We have this privilege, perhaps compared to many other ministries, to do really long-term planning. In this case, we are talking about a plan for 2021/2030. We are currently in the preparatory phase of the plan, there are expert discussions within the Defence Forces and between the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces. We certainly want to come to the National Defence Committee in the spring of next year to discuss these issues. We are going through topics, starting with the security situation and our own structures and ending with the activities of our allies, including all those issues that have arisen here in debates, from anti-aircraft and coastal defence, fleet issues, etc. So we're going through all of this. But of course, as you know, although our budget is large in terms of Estonia's GDP, in absolute terms, the numbers are small. On the international market, we must, of course, take into account that far from being able to obtain everything we may need from the point of view of defence logic.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U39	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U40	Thank you. Dear Minister of Defence, good George! You are undoubtedly one of Estonia's most well-known diplomats and as a member of the government, you have seen very different stages in Estonian foreign policy and international relations, how Estonia's activities are reflected among our allies and partners. I think you share my idea that the stage that we have seen here in the last few days, actually in the months, is not very well remembered. We have reached a situation where the President of the Republic expresses his opinion that the government led by Jüri Ratas is a threat to the constitutional order of Estonia and to Estonia's security. I think those are very serious words. They will not only be overlooked here in Estonia, but will certainly also be asked questions in international relations as to why the President has reached such a conclusion or why he is expressing such a serious opinion. Good Jüri, perhaps you are trying to dissipate some of us members of the Riigikogu, which has led the President of the Republic to think that the current government, of which you are a member, is a threat to Estonia's security.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U41	Thank you for that question. Indeed, this issue covers the issue of defence, and of course it is also a broader security policy issue. As far as the President's words are concerned, the best thing is, of course, for him to interpret his own words. Indeed, the headline was very strong. I think in this interview I am not going to quote from my head, because I can quote wrong, however, he described quite precisely what he thinks the question is. As one of the ministers responsible for security, I can say that when it comes to security and defence, I believe that Estonia is protected and Estonia's security is guaranteed. If you ask about the international image of Estonia, which, I think, is in this context, there is no doubt that the international picture of us is one of the most important elements of security. This picture has, of course, been damaged at times, there is no doubt about it, there is no reason to hide it. The last incident concerning the statements by Minister Helme of the Interior about the Prime Minister of Finland, the insult of the Prime Minister, and which also found coverage in the international press, was undoubtedly extremely negative and regrettable.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U42	Johannes Kert, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U43	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I wanted to highlight the remarks made by your colleague's Minister for the Interior, for example, at the German address when he called Germany a defence dwarf. If you look well, you'll find more clues like this. At some point, we might have to start making excuses at 360 degrees in every direction. What about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U44	Thank you. Let us begin with the factual clarification that Germany, of course, is not some kind of defence-political dwarf, or no matter how the quote sounded. Germany is a very important ally of ours, and we must appreciate it very highly as such. I could give a number of examples, but in the interests of saving time, I am not going to bring them now. As far as our relations with other countries are concerned, at least everything concerning the Ministry of Defence and security, as well as this fact, I dare say that the people who work in the Ministry of Defence are also internationally known that we also have a very wide network of international connections, I do not feel that the attitude towards Estonia in the security and defence policy has changed in any way, nor do I feel that when I meet my colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U45	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U46	Next, question No 4, posed by Heljo Pikhof. This is answered by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U47	Thank you. Dear Minister, Let's talk about pharmaceutical reform. The restructuring period has been five years. After all, we will not start the reform from 1 April next year, but we will be at the end of the pharmaceutical reform. Within five years, most of the work has already been done, pharmacists have created pharmacies, taken over existing pharmacies or left them to run pharmacies. But wholesalers aren't going to give up their pharmacies, in other words, comply with the law, it's not going any better. The wholesalers of medicines that own chain pharmacies did not like it at the time, just as they do not like it today that they should give up the thick end. As has already been said, there is a conflict of interest when a wholesaler sells its own medicines to his own pharmacy at a suitable price. Who's gonna lose it? Of course, it's the one who's going to buy the meds that's gonna lose. A good example is that hospitals, for example, who have to tender to buy medicines, receive medicines 10% cheaper, because there are competitions, such as Tamro and Magnum, both. It is good that yesterday's reform of the pharmacy was not stopped, the pharmacists, I hope, will remain. The costaars say that you are preparing a new draft, giving more time to transfer the ownership of pharmacies than until 1 April. My question, on the one hand, is what you have done so far. Almost three-quarters of years have had time...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U48	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U49	...to complete the reform. Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U50	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Let's start from the beginning. Indeed, in 2014-2015 the reform was adopted and the move towards these changes in the market has been relatively slow. I think that the reason has also been, in many respects, that there were no intermediate stages, no time-limits or implementing acts either by the previous parliamentary term or by the previous Parliament, by the previous or previous minister and ministry during this period. Perhaps there has been a situation where all market participants, in particular wholesalers and their own pharmacies, have had the opportunity to deliver without hindrance under today's market organisation until that deadline is reached, and from this point on, it is as if the obligation to comply with the requirements of the pharmaceutical reform is an obligation. Certainly in the form of hindsight, which seems perhaps logical now, it would have been right already in 2014 or 2015 or at the latest in the previous parliamentary term to establish clear intermediate stages, interim periods, by which date the change of ownership must be announced, by which date the branch pharmacies will have to make changes, for example, in larger cities, for example, in medium-sized centres and then in smaller places. In a sense, this was originally planned, since the deadline for branch pharmacies was different. If I am not mistaken in my head, on 9 June 2019 it should have gone over, but the previous parliamentary assembly, as we know, postponed this deadline to 1 April 2020. As far as the ministry's work is concerned, I must confess to you honestly that this question seems to be addressed to a bit of the wrong person. Not because I want to reduce my responsibility to some extent now, not because I do, but I also know that the last four years in the Ministry of Social Affairs, it was the socialist representative who led the health sector. The same question could be asked for this four-year period, but that is not what I am doing, where there were implementing acts, where there were proposals. In the three-quarters of the year in which the Minister's office has been my responsibility, we have really been working on this for months. We have met repeatedly with the Medicines Agency, market players, wholesalers, importers, pharmacy associations, as well as the Chamber of pharmacists. We have, for example, put forward 16 proposals in the working group to mitigate the supply difficulties of medicines more generally, to improve access, and also to improve the implementation of the pharmaceutical reform. It is true, as I have also said, that we are supporting a step-by-step approach now, that we are currently formulating these proposals in writing so that everyone can get acquainted with them in black. I will also send them to the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu today and then it will be possible for the Social Affairs Committee and Parliament to discuss whether this direction could be the right one. Personally, I think that this is the most sensible way of ensuring a smooth transition to meet the requirements of the pharmaceutical reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U51	Heljo Pikhof, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U52	Thank you. Indeed, the pharmacies have repeatedly turned to the Minister for Social Affairs; they also did so during the previous government in order to change the situation back and not comply with the law. As far as I am concerned, the implementing acts are all there to make pharmacies meet the new requirements, not the missing part. I'll keep asking from here. How do you ensure that chain pharmacies will still comply with the law by shifting the pharmaceutical reform to an end date? Everything that we've seen so far shows that's not gonna happen. How exactly do you put it into practice so, let's say, half a year from now, if you postpone the law's entry into force, it will start to go as the pharmacy reform requires? The second question concerns why the majority of your party mistrusts you about the reform of the pharmacy. I thought they wanted to fuck everything up last night.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U53	Thank you for your question. A hundred percent guarantee cannot be granted to any minister, any member of the Riigikogu, on a relatively large market. Indeed, our proposal foresees that this process would be smoother and easier for all parties, wholesalers, pharmacists and also the State, or the Medicines Agency, if we approach and resolve this step by step. Today we have 3.5 months before this reform enters into force. In pure hypothetic terms, 300 pharmacies should be dealt with during this period, depending on how many of them will continue and how many of them will cease to exist, either on the change of ownership or on the creation of a new pharmacy, which would undoubtedly be a challenge for all market participants, let us say, a challenge. This could be done in stages by dividing the deadline, for example, between three and four intervals. This is not a postponement, I stress. There is a very fundamental difference. We are not talking about postponing, just as we are sorry for expressing! In fact, at that time, it was decided and postponed in the previous parliamentary term. I don't think that would be the solution in the current situation. Rather, this time should be divided into stages, given specific time-limits, specific marks, by which time changes need to be made, for example, in the case of branch pharmacies in large centres, where we can see that it does not affect access to medicines, because the pharmacy service is also guaranteed by the pharmacists, and thus gives pharmacists the opportunity to increase market share by releasing the market, releasing turnover, releasing rental spaces, while at the same time also releasing labour. Such a smooth transition is in any case, let's say, a safer choice in the national perspective, a more secure choice, precisely so that no one has a hypothetical chance of frightening or reaching such actions that, for example, the availability of medicines in the region is under threat from 1 April, for example. We have mapped Estonia's largest settlements, in the order of 150. Of these, 115 have a pharmacist, so access to medicines is guaranteed. There are 35 settlements on which we work, to around 23, we have found either a pharmacist interested in setting up a pharmacy there, or an existing pharmacy which belongs, for example, to several pharmacists or pharmacists together, so that it is possible to bring the pharmacy into line with the current law with relatively simple changes. There are 11 or 12 other settlements where a little more of this work needs to be done and solutions found, and further work needs to be done with them. We don't push this job to anyone else. But my message to all market participants is that, according to the law in force, today would be a very reasonable time to review the ownership, belongings of pharmacies, to find pharmacists who are interested in buying pharmacies, to make contracts and changes, because today is three and a half months, but at some point we will arrive at two months or one month. It's not in anyone's best interest to be on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U54	Mart Võrguship, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U55	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. A moment ago, you have just explained that there is quite a decent job going on in the ministry to ensure that pharmacies are open. Two days ago, I visited the pharmacy of Tõnismäe, a five - minute walk from here. There was a calendar on the counter that showed the number of days. At the moment, it said '107 days' and the text: '107 days later, the pharmacy is threatened with closure. The reason for the failed pharmacy reform, which will enter into force on 1 April 2020. For the same reason, nearly 300 other pharmacies should be closed. The Ministry of Social Affairs sees no problem with the disappearance of pharmacies. ' I read this information here in the city centre, where at the same time I was served by a pharmacist, with bad feelings. In my opinion, this is an unjustified intimidation of people. My question is whether you are aware of such a campaign, how you feel about this campaign, whether you are a minister or whether the ministry is able to intervene in any way, or whether it is possible to give a signal that this kind of intimidation of people is not quite correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U56	Thank you very much for a very good question. I'm aware of this campaign. I agree with you that this is an unnecessary intimidation of people. This is a pressure to achieve the desired changes, which has also been done by collecting signatures and other means. I ask you this: there are 500 pharmacies in Estonia today, but if there were 1000 pharmacies, would the market be twice as good, or if there were 4000 pharmacies, would the market be eight times better? Anyone who thinks and analyses the subject will understand that the number of pharmacies, as such, is not a sufficient indicator to determine whether access to medicines is guaranteed or not. The more pharmacies we have, the more rental premises we have to pay for, the more pharmacists, pharmacists and other employees who have to pay for their labour costs, the more places we have to store and where they need to be logistically delivered, the more expensive this service will be. In fact, this is potentially precisely the issue of availability and the issue of access to labour in rural areas is also important. In this sense, the argument that 300 pharmacies will be reduced is, in my opinion, not the case, because we have estimated that the real need for Estonia is 300-400 pharmacies. If there are two or one in a shopping centre instead of three pharmacies, it does not mean that the availability of medicines is reduced; it may mean an increase. It also means, as I have pointed out, that it will be easier to find pharmacists in rural areas, for example, to find a workforce. As far as this particular campaign is concerned, I have specifically spoken to the representative of the Association of Pharmacies on this subject, for example, in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu, where there were quite a number of parties present. I said that I thought this campaign was inappropriate, and I said what I could say in this Chamber too, that this last sentence, i.e. that the Ministry of Social Affairs does not see a problem in closing pharmacies or anything like that, is a sentence that maybe the ministry standing for its rights would start courts. The reasoning is very human and simple at the moment: there are really more pressing, faster issues to deal with at the moment than to go to court with one association or another, but I suspect that the justification for this sentence would not be legally and essentially possible, because it is simply not true. Discussions on the reform, debates on the previous one, in today's composition, perhaps in the next, as well as in the previous one, are self-evident. That is the big change, there have been different views from the four political parties. It seems to me that the only party that has kept one line from the beginning to the end has been the Social Democratic Party, all others have had supporters and opponents. Proposals have been made to reject, postpone, modify deadlines, etc. It's all understandable, but in this debate, I think there are such defamatory techniques, inappropriate intimidations, taggings, accusations, inappropriate. After all, the interest of all market participants, including wholesalers, is that the availability of medicinal products is guaranteed for pharmacies and people to be supplied with medicinal products. The pharmacists have the same interest, the Ministry of Social Affairs has the same interest. I have no doubt that the same interest lies in the full composition of the Riigikogu. So this campaign is really inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U57	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U58	Next, question No 5, posed by Urve Tiidus. Reply to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U59	Thank you. Prime Minister! Eight months ago, you stood before Parliament and asked for the power to act on the new government. There was a word in your speech that came up over and over again. It was a 'coherence'. Speaking about the plans of the power union, you said (I am now quoting some of your sentences): 'The aim is to create a link between Estonia', 'We will continue to stand for a united and strong and growing nation', 'Induse also means reducing the gaps between wealthier and low-paid people', 'Induse society in turn means that we are a democratic rule of law that guarantees important values, human rights, freedom of expression and personal freedoms'. You promised to build a family-friendly Estonia, whose society is united, etc., for the sake of a power union. The word 'bindingness' is known to be transferred to social sciences from molecular biology. Theorists have explained it quite metaphorically as a social bonding glue that keeps society together. When there is mutual trust and common values between members of society, this glue often remains unnoticed, but in this eight-month period there have been many times that can be classified on the contrary: the glue has become noticeable, which in turn has led to apologies, debugs, explanations, corrections and gossip, both within the country and at international level. The word 'binding' has been replaced by'sorry! '. The question, however, is another: what has actually been done in this eight months to create a coherent society of your goals?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U60	Thank you very much for this question. So I really said eight months ago that a cohesive society was important to me, it was so in the previous government, and it continues to be so today. If you think this has changed somehow, I assure you it hasn't. First of all, such a general answer. The undertone of your question is that coherence has not increased in any way, gaps have increased, people are protesting in the streets. That's one side you can see. The other side is what I see very much when I meet people who say that the very right and good principles are in this coalition, they support this coalition. This depends on where to look at this coherence. I think so. I understand you're asking about EKRE, aren't you, and this rhetoric. I think that society is connected even if the people of Estonia choose five or six or four political parties (or some other number of political parties) here, but all these parties are able to be on both sides of this line, which is a political line that shows where the opposition or coalition is. I think it is one very important measure in a good way that we do not rule out anyone as a result of a decision by a higher power. If you ask for specific things, there have been a number of important progress in terms of the well-being of ex-Estonians. Population projections have improved, prosperity has increased, inequalities have decreased, both average wages and median wages have increased, 34% over the last four years. Wages are growing significantly faster than prices, for example, in the state budget the parental benefit budget is growing by 14%, and the family tax exemption is increasing by 100 euros per month from the third child. The new year will also increase benefits for children with disabilities, which have remained at the same level for the last 13 years. The allowance for an average disabled child will rise from EUR 69 to EUR 138 per month. The increase in tolerance and coherence over this can be debated. I hope that no one is ironing about this, but this is also demonstrated by recent studies, such as a survey of citizens' attitudes towards Estonia, Estonian identity. It appears that there has been a significant increase in security at national and personal level since 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U61	Urve Tiidus, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U62	Yes, thank you! It's so sweet how you read my mind, but you did. Here's the second question. How does the pension reform, the dismantling of the second pillar, and even the reversal of the same pharmacy reform, which, indeed, was voted off yesterday, virtually bear out the objective of social cohesion in your government's past efforts, but I understand that this process is going on? That's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U63	Thank you. Forgive me for reading down some points, but you asked me what changed in terms of its coherence, and these are statistical numbers that I certainly wanted to mention. Another issue is the linking of the cohesion aspect with the dismantling of the second pension pillar. This is exactly how the opposition says it is a demolition, but the coalition says it is a voluntaryisation and people can decide for themselves and we would have more liberality in society. You say that this is not a good idea and that the state should write down how it is. I cannot agree in any way that this reform is the dismantling of the second pension pillar. I have received quite a few insights into this reform. This can now be discussed by the Riigikogu. The principle is that each person can freely decide whether he or she will continue to join the second pension pillar or not, and at some point he or she can change his or her decision with a 10-year range. So I don't think you can call it scrapping. The other part of your question was linked to the reform of the pharmacy. You referred to yesterday's decision. On this subject, Mr Ossinovski and I have been debating for a long time. I said the same thing to you, but I believe you listened to me. I think this House has given its very strong input here. But under no circumstances do I agree with this, as the Riigikogu should now no longer discuss it. As we understand, the Minister of Social Affairs wishes to bring further proposals to the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu in order to make this reform even better. You're upset that I'm counting. I would like to move forward with this aspect of coherence, which I think is important. For example, 83% of Estonians feel close to Estonia, including 43% feel very close. The indicators are at the same level as the figures for 2017. There is a small difference in the closeness of Estonians and other nationalities to Estonia: 84% versus 79%. At the same time, I would like to say about the support of different institutions in Estonian society, which the Ministry of Defence is following, for example, about NATO support, that it has grown and is pleased that it has also grown among people with Russian native language, for example, which will certainly show a stronger cohesion of society. The latest studies carried out by the State Chancellery show that support for the European Union is basically equivalent, regardless of their mother tongue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U64	Marko Mihkelson, please! Sorry, yeah! Urve Tiidus has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U65	If you will allow me, then a brief comment on the fact that...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U66	Unfortunately, there are no comments...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U67	No, that's not a comment. They say I'm the one who blamed the Prime Minister for counting down. I didn't make such a complaint, I said you read my mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U68	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U69	Thank you. Prime Minister! This Monday, the President of the Republic gave a longer interview to the Postimees newspaper. One of the questions that Holger Roonemaa asked was this: 'Do you now, seven months later, feel that this government is a threat to the constitutional order of Estonia? ' I quote the President's reply: 'It is in this sense that they question § 12 of the Constitution: all people are equal. I think he's a threat to our security, too. If we think about the last month, during this period the Minister of the Interior has intervened twice in Estonian foreign policy and started to shape it vigorously. This morning I spoke to Saul of Niinistö and asked him to give Prime Minister Sanna Marin my personal apology. I also confessed to him how embarrassed I am about all this. " These are the words of the President of the Republic. I can imagine that in 101 years, no President or Head of State of the Republic of Estonia had to behave in this way. The President has acted this way because of the actions of your government. I have this question, good Prime Minister: could you make a wonderful Christmas present for the Estonian people and disband this government in order to stop embarrassing what, unfortunately, we have to see on an international level every day?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U70	Thank you. First of all, I say thank you to Mrs Urve Tiidus. I think we both got that figured out. Thank you very much. Mr. Mihkelson! I will answer your question, what is my reaction to what the President of the Republic has said? After all, today's President of the Republic has not supported this government from the beginning, that is what he has said from the beginning. He has made a number of proposals that need to be replaced in this government and that need not be exchanged in public and non-public terms. But I've said that we have one prime minister at a time, and that's it. Is there any way that today's government in its politics has called into question the fact that not all people are equal? No, it's not. All people are equal in any case, absolutely, I agree with that. I very much hope that you, Mr Mihkelson, will also follow this principle, which you asked me about, in your political rhetoric: all people are equal and all parties in this Chamber are equal. Intervention in foreign policy you have pointed out that the President has said that. In any case, I agree with the Minister for Defence that if we take this last example on Finland, on the Finnish Prime Minister, it was bad, it was inappropriate, it was negative. I cannot say in any way that it has left any stain or trace. Of course he has. Are Estonia's foreign policy positions weaker today than they were seven or eight months ago? No, I don't think they're weaker. I think that these quite important meetings that have been held in the last seven or eight months have strengthened Estonia's security and foreign policy. At the NATO summit, the big issue of defence plans was resolved. Let us take the question of the European Union. I think that today we are doing everything we can to keep the unity of the European Union strong in this direction for the future. When we applied for the Security Council, we certainly received thanks to you, as well as many members of the Riigikogu, but also thanks to the President, a good outcome in the competition with Romania. It was a very strong signal and a step. Today, Estonia is very strongly preparing the three sea initiatives summits, the business forum, which will take place next year. These things show that we are constantly strengthening both transatlantic relations and relations with our external partners. For this Christmas present, I come back to my request. This is political competition. You want today's government to fall, I understand, I wish today's government didn't fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U71	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U72	The next question is number 6. It will be presented by Helmen Kütt and will be answered by Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Social Affairs! As a topic of care insurance, the Riigikogu reached the discussions of the grand hall already on 6 March 2018, when the idea initiated by Dr Kai German collected more than 1000 people's signatures of support in the idea collection of the new age community, and then the Social Affairs Committee, which I chaired at the time, brought this popular initiative on the agenda of the Riigikogu as an important national issue. We have now been able to read and hear from the media about your thoughts on care insurance as a new tax. You've also taken the subject to a government hearing. The question is, how did it go in there? Did the coalition partners support you, what happens next, and what are your plans on this matter? Through the media, we may not get a complete overview of what you mean by care insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U74	Dear Helmen Kütt, of course, this is a matter of very long history, a matter of very long history. As far as the need for long-term care reform is concerned, I feel that all parliamentary parties agree that the capacity of the state and local authorities to support people and provide the services that people need is, unfortunately, less than the real need. People's own participation has risen from 60% to 80%, and there is a very large shortage of services when we talk about home services, special care services, long-term care services, support services, this shortage amounts to tens of thousands. According to recent data, 120000 service places are needed and there are around 70,000 on the market, i.e. 50,000 people are either in the order of a service or very often simply at home, the need for a service has been unevaluated, the person is not in any order, perhaps because he already knows that he does not have the financial means or the local authority does not have the capacity, or perhaps because he simply has not been actively introduced or offered to him. As far as maintenance insurance is concerned, this has not been discussed by the Government. We bring forward the government's proposals for a care reform of 20 pages in size, many of which concern health and social integration. I think this is one of the clear objectives that I must have as a minister, in a situation where we have regrouped these areas in the ministry. Also, with regard to better cooperation between the parties, the creation of a 'coordination mechanism', which is also not a new issue, has in fact already been tested in certain local authorities. It identifies human needs in terms of how many health services and how many social services it wants, whether information moves, whether there are duplications, whether there are people who have lost their services and why they have lost them. There is indeed a very large circle to involve, starting with local governments, social workers, family doctors, close relatives, employers. As regards fundamental changes, we have offered three solutions. One of these is the additional, clearer distribution of the state and local government shares, with the fixing of the reasonable ownership of the people, and the additional financial support of the State. For example, on the principle that if the local authority increases its contribution to this area, the State will respond in the same way, it will channel additional resources. Another option would be for the state to take over these services, at least long-term services, such as demented care and other more complex services, as well as general care services in an institutionalised form. The third proposal you asked about is a care insurance payment, which would require the creation of a care fund. Is this a separate payment, just as there is unemployment insurance, just as we have a share of health insurance in the social tax and the other part goes for the pension, or is this some kind of state budget provision? All these debates must be held and these are the debates we are having in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U75	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, a question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U76	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, thank you very much for your very thorough and meaningful answer. In fact, in the Committee on Social Affairs, you have explained these principles in part in advance, without the part of the care contribution that was discussed in the paper. At the State Chancellery, the maintenance load task force used to work. I hope you've recovered these materials, too. A World Bank analysis was commissioned from there, where tax was not really recommended. My question is whether you are partners, as you said, involved in the debate on social and health issues, in both health and social matters. We know that a number of great plans have been written that should have been implemented already in 2013 or 2014 and that health and social affairs should have been funded according to a common principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U77	Thank you very much for your question. As far as the specific task force is concerned, my so-called history of this task force began in November 2016 when we put together a previous coalition and coalition agreement. I remember that at the time we also made it clear that, when we start dealing with the issue of long-term care, we are precisely guided by the recommendations and proposals of this task force on maintenance. Perhaps there has been a very clear continuity here, one could say, regardless of who is currently in the coalition. This long-term care reform plan has also not been built from scratch in the last seven months, but is the result of years of work by local authorities, sector organisations, health associations, as well as ministers and ministries. Of course, that's the way it's supposed to be. As far as this World Bank recommendation is concerned, it is true that their assessment at the time was this. I think that this debate, whether we are talking here about some sort of, as has been said, earmarking, tax restructuring or additional tax, is welcome and welcome. For example, let us look at the distribution of social tax in Estonia. There are two areas: 20% goes to pensions (we see that the average pension is 40% of the average net salary or below) and the second part, 13% goes to health insurance. We can see that we have the largest uncovered need for treatment in the European Union, we can see that we have health investment, if we are talking only about a country, less than 5% of GDP, if we are talking about the option 'country plus people', then it is in the order of 6.5 to 6.6% of GDP, which is also one of the lowest figures in the European Union and the OECD, is several percent below the average. Perhaps my personal position has really been that, and I have also maintained that it is not realistic to shift money from these areas to cover, for example, care insurance, that it is really not feasible. This additional revenue must come from elsewhere. Personally, it does seem more reasonable to me. I've also said before that I'm not in the belief that the lower the income tax, the better the country. I think the role of the state is to provide people with the services they need, is this transport, it is education, it is health care, it is social protection. There is also a need to collect revenues to provide any service. In this case, I support a separate tax. Whether it finds the coalition's support in this Parliament, in the next Parliament or in the future, this is demonstrated by the discussions, as shown by the debates. I think that the fact that this particular tax may have come up as a'main topic' is, in itself, very human. I remember that once one of your good colleagues in the ministry worked out a green book on movement and nutrition and received a lot of suggestions. One of these proposals was the introduction of a sugar tax. Of course, it was what so-called flying, which spread in all kinds of headlines in the media, that actually came to Parliament. This green book of movement and nutrition has not yet arrived, it is currently being presented by the Ministry. Inevitably, if the keyword is 'tax' or 'tax rise', it gets more attention than maybe the core of the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U78	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Minister of Social Affairs. Your field is really extremely complex. You will certainly look with concern at how the fees for nursing homes rise to 800 and 1000 euros per month, while today, according to the knowledge of relative poverty, 43% of the elderly live in Estonia. The limit on relative poverty last year remained at EUR 569. There is no doubt that this gap must be filled with something. I believe that you are still watching with a very heavy heart how your pension pillar is being demolished. I think you've been thinking that for the 2% that a person gets out of there, you could get a care insurance policy. Do you think that care insurance should be voluntary? Can we not, however, leave the second pillar unraveled, so that the 2% of people still collect themselves to secure their old age?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U80	Thank you very much for your question. I think we all find it very regrettable that we see an increase in the price of general care services and care homes, we see an increase in people's ownership, an increase in their close ownership. We can see that the contribution of the state and local authorities, as has been said, to this area is in the order of EUR 100 million, while the people's own contribution is 70 million. As has been said, for certain services, the share of patients and their relatives themselves amounts to 80% of the cost of the service. This is a problem that no one hopes will deny. However, as far as the second pension pillar is concerned, I do not see these two issues so closely linked. I'll explain why. If we are talking about the same elderly today, 40% of whom really live below the limit of relative poverty, if we are also talking about those who are in line for the nursing home or who are clients of nursing homes, let us be honest: the second pillar will not solve their concerns. The second pillar is a long-term issue. I continue to support accession to the second pillar, I myself have joined it, there is no intention to step out. I've said that before. In this light, putting these two things together can produce a little unwanted results. If we say, for example, now, get out of the second pillar and take care insurance voluntarily or compulsorily, then we actually invite people to leave. I wouldn't want to do that, though. I wouldn't want to do that. Maintenance insurance should be separate. I think that this should be solidarity-based, i.e. probably compulsory (this is my position, but the ministry itself has different opinions here), precisely because if we talk about today's concern when we talk about today's tens of thousands of elderly people who are in line for services or need these services in their own homes, then for them, voluntary insurance will not solve the problem, nor will the second pillar. For them, the problem can be solved if the state and local authorities come to a greater extent to help with the provision of the service. As far as the structure of services is concerned, I certainly support the principle of moving more towards home services. We can see that this is also one of the perhaps most deprived places alongside the support person's service. In Estonia, the total number of home services is about 6600 people, and the real need is 20,000 people. It is also true that in nursing homes, people who could successfully deliver services in their homes are also able to receive certain help, such as adapting their home, such as heating, sewerage, electricity, all kinds of mobility, stairs, and also home services. If the local government could provide certain support to people, for example, when shopping, when bringing medicines, for other smaller household chores that an elderly person can no longer do, then it would be a more comfortable and dignified way for people to spend their old age and would actually be a cheaper way for the state, the local government, than to offer this relatively expensive care home service, which no doubt everyone of us does not necessarily want.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U81	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U82	The following question, No. 7. The questioner is Heiki Kranich and answers Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U83	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You are the Minister of Defence of this government, and a great deal of what is involved in international security tasks must or will be within your jurisdiction. Unfortunately, there is also a minister in the government who, in my opinion, is trying to undermine this international security, particularly through the direct and personal insult of our partners' leaders. The series of examples is quite long: Trudeau, Theresa May, Emmanuel Macron, Angela Merkel. They all represent countries that have contributed directly to the defence of the Baltic States and whose troops are present here. In addition, Mr Helme has also denigrated NATO as such. Now I must correct you, the insult of the Finnish Prime Minister (although Finland is not a member of NATO) was not the last insult Mart Helme has said at all. On Saturday Mart Helme said this: 'Germany is soon to be a militant midget compared to Estonia, because there is nothing to be done when exercises with brushes imitate shooting with guns. I went to Germany a few years ago as a member of the National Defence Commission, I have not seen any generals as sad as they were in Germany, because they were all crying only about how they did not have enough men, how they did not have enough money, how they were not ordered weapons, how they were all going down. You can always complain and you can always be better. But Germany is not a country that is able or willing to defend Estonia and other Baltic countries in the event of war. ' As you can see, this line is increasing and increasing. What do you think if you go and meet your colleagues abroad, will they take it with mild humor and say, "Whoa, you now have your Zirinovski, look where a serious prank guy is putting on your shoulder, or do you see a big and growing risk of remaining isolated in Estonia, including military-political isolation?"
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U84	Thank you. First of all, about Germany. As I said, they are our very important allies. The best example is, of course, that they are in the Baltic States with their army unit, with their battalion, and have been most closely associated with the air security unit right here in Ämari. So there can be no doubt about how these things are. As far as defence ministers are concerned, I would appreciate that this is rather the view that it is such a funny minister. Defence ministers are a relatively cold-blooded nation. They don't pat on my shoulder, as you said, but I haven't noticed any direct reaction to all these statements. We ourselves, of course, find it very unpleasant and there is no doubt that this will affect the image of Estonia. There is no doubt that the defence ministers I meet know this, whether they talk to me or not, they certainly know it. But I would not say that this would now have had an impact in the security policy context in the sense that some exercises had been missed, some troops had not arrived, some equipment had been lost. Everything that is planned and we know for quite a long time what is planned, has happened and, in my opinion, has happened very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U85	Heiki Kranich, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U86	Thank you for your answer. I had the impression that your answer was missing one word, and the word was 'yet': it is not yet spoken of, the deliveries that are yet arriving, it has not yet become a risk. If you're looking at how Mart Helme operates, you'll see that he's attacking all our historically established partners, there's only one direction left free. Are you not afraid that his agenda is, in fact, perhaps a strengthening of military cooperation with Russia, in other words a new treaty on bases? Have you thought that you might have to communicate with your party associates or directly with the Prime Minister, because the line I read is going to be extended all the time and the word'still' becomes quite topical? Would you talk to your partymates and perhaps directly to the Prime Minister about the fact that it really would be time to take a management decision in the interests of Estonia's security?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U87	Thank you for that question. As the Prime Minister has already mentioned, Estonia has one prime minister at a time. There's no way I'd want to take that role. But if you're asking if it's appropriate to use the word 'other', then this kind of risk should be taken into account. The standards used in international communication must be taken into account. These standards, by the way, are not very complicated, they are quite simple and easy to formulate. It seems to me that in Estonia, too, there are sometimes no perceptions of how global Estonia really is, it is not perceived that what has been said about the very same Tre Radio in one small radio station, and perhaps only the members of their party are meant to imagine, can be read in Washington or, for example, in Paris or Berlin, as you mentioned. This, of course, must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U88	Thank you. Question 3... Oh, it came anyway. Marko Mihkelson, please! No, I don't. Then I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U89	Let us go to the next question by Jaak Juske to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U90	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! As we know, the supreme leader of our national defence, the President of the Republic, has said that your government is a threat to Estonia's security. This is a statement that the Head of State has never used in the history of the Estonian state against the Head of Government before. This is a very serious accusation. You tried to claim here earlier that there is no problem, and today's President just doesn't love the government you run. I think there is a problem, it is very serious, and the name of this problem is Mr Helme, Minister of the Interior of your government, who systematically insults some groups of Estonian society every week, and when they have run out, our allies and allies will be attacked. If you think you can't get any worse, every week they're gonna turn around again. Indeed, our security has been damaged, our allies have been damaged. Here, Prime Minister, a very simple question for you: how long will you let this mess go on? How long will you allow the Minister of the Interior to continue to damage Estonia's allies, insulting the various social groups? When's this shit gonna end? When are you gonna take him out of office? Or is it your goal to be Prime Minister as long as possible, at any price?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U91	Thank you. I have also answered it before, and I will also answer it now: no, I am certainly not the type of pusher and, like your argument, is a chair locker. Absolutely not. In any case, I am deeply concerned about Estonia's good performance and also about Estonia's strong position in the international arena. To your question, when will the Prime Minister take one or another statement to Kadriorg or close the coalition, I will say that for me, the right time is certainly when this coalition will no longer work if the coalition is not really able to make decisions. This is certainly not the ticking coalition I support under any circumstances. Just as I said in today's Eesti Päevaleht interview, the border will come at one point. Of course, the sense of the border is very personal, but I certainly have it, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U92	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U93	Mr Prime Minister! I'm still wondering where that line is for you. If, for example, the Minister of the Interior makes another very gruesome statement next week and attacks any of Estonia's allies, will you be finished and can you say that you will give the people of Estonia a Christmas present and send it to the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U94	Thank you. You want this Christmas present with Marko Mihkelson so hard and together. It's actually a political fight you're fighting right now, okay? Like I said, if the government doesn't work, if the minister doesn't work, and if I sense that this minister has lost my trust, I will.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U95	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U96	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! On Saturday, your Minister of the Interior and your permanent deputy on the remote marked the country of Estonia (and this was not the first time), the country you govern. In Estonia there is a government of chancellors who fight a guerrilla war, sabotage, drag slippers, hide information, distort ideas, have a new feudal layer. Estonia has an ideological authority. The selection board of senior state officials at the State Chancellery must be dissolved. The public phase of the high officials' rebellion was in the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Illar Lemetti managed to be eliminated. The fight against rebellion continues, and there is a major conflict with the Road Administration. Nationalities receive input from the forces in the shadows; the Minister of the Interior cannot intervene. Behind the facade are rats that chew their holes, where all kinds of means of private life are placed. The Estonian Public Prosecutor's Office operates according to the Stalinist principles. The Ministry of Justice is guided by one political ideology, the in-depth state guidelines and the self-preservation instinct of the state's nobleman, and exercises discretion. Special services operating in the dark are not subject to substantive control. The special committee on supervision of the security authorities of the Riigikogu deals only with nose pecking. Please tell me, Mr. Ratas, what are you up to in order to bring this situation to an end in the country? How did you get this far, and what are you doing to bring this situation to an end?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U97	I understand you used Mr. Mart Helme's quotes. You know very well that most of these quotations I do not agree with in any way. No, I do not think that the situation of the Estonian state would be the way you read it beautifully using the quotes of the Minister of the Interior, I see that it is much more professional, much more effective. In any case, I agree with the need to improve some things in the country, but on what you have pointed out, my answer is that no, I do not think that the Estonian state is on this course or built in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U98	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U99	Next question No 9, author Siim Kallas and answer Minister for Defence Jüri Luik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U100	Mr. Minister! When this coalition, which is now in power, was formed, we all saw your strong statement in Estonian Television that you will not go into this government under any circumstances. Yet you went to this government and immediately took up the position of Secretary of Defense. You have claimed that your goal in this government is to keep the EKRE away from Estonian defence policy. How do you assess today whether you have managed to keep the EKRE away from Estonian defence policy, and is that a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U101	Thank you. I can answer this very briefly: I have managed to keep the EKRE away from Estonian defence policy. I have failed to keep EKRE away from making all the comments they publish in different publications, mostly the Minister of the Interior. But as far as defence is concerned, I see absolutely no effect of the EKRE here. True, there was a recent statement concerning the so-called plan B.A., I believe that it received quite a strong reaction quite quickly, and it certainly had no effect on the Estonian defence policy as such. I understand your question so-called spirituality and meaning perfectly. Indeed, I decided to go to this government in the belief that I can do exactly what you asked about, that is to keep the defence policy European, as it has been so far. I believe it has its own value.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U102	Siim Kallas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U103	Mr. Minister! I have heard to some extent such a positive element in this reply as well. You claim that no political power, EKRE or Isamaa has any particular influence in the defence forces, but that it remains neutral on the Estonian political landscape.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U104	Thank you. Yeah, that's exactly what it is. This has been the case over time, and it is the case now. As long as I'm a minister, it's gonna stay that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U105	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U106	Thank you. Dear Minister of Defence, good George! This issue is undoubtedly very important. We are obviously all in agreement here that what concerns national defence and the resources allocated to national defence is perhaps one of the few issues where there is a rather strong consensus in this Parliament too. This is actually an example that it is possible to agree on matters that are important to the state. But unfortunately, national defence is still very seriously affected by the statements made by the ministers of the Government of the Republic, even if these ministers are jokers, as you called the Minister of the Interior. We can see that the current crisis in the so-called Estonian-Finnish relations has been very clear on the fronts of the world's leading newspapers and media and has attracted a great deal of attention among the readers we have all witnessed. This is also a clue to who is still blackmailing Estonia in the international media. The opposition has repeatedly been accused here as if we were doing it. I'm afraid not. But I come to my question from the perspective that, as I mentioned earlier, good Jüri, you have done a great deal to ensure that Estonia's international performance is well-off. I believe you are sincerely doing this in your capacity as Minister of Defence. You've been an ambassador, and you know what the ambassador's role is, you're an ambassador now. Mart Helme was awarded the Ambassador's title as early as 1995 by President Lennart Meri. Please tell me how you feel about how well and with dignity he's handling this title right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U107	To be honest, sometimes I'm really surprised because I don't think very many of his statements match the ambassador's title. He has not only been an ambassador, he was also Deputy Secretary of State for the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So he has a very strong foreign policy background, also an institutional background. That's why I often don't understand what this element is, it's such an improvisational element, or... It is quite clear to me that Mart Helme perceives the problems that these statements cause, let us put it this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U108	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U109	Next, Riina asks for Sikk and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U110	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I now do not dare to quote the Minister of the Interior, perhaps I can reprimand, because the rules of conduct agreed upon by the body of elders have not yet been introduced to us. So I'm just going to quote Urve Tiidus and Mart Root. Urve Tiidus beautifully said that unity in society is the bond or glue that brings society together and keeps everything in one place. Many of us have also made a very strong contribution to the cohesion of society presented as the goal of the coalition. For example, Mart Juur started making excuses for Finns on Sunday evening, and then concluded that our government of national unity has reached such a point that citizens have to help the Prime Minister of Estonia in his difficult Helmede apology work. He was happy to do it. I ask if the plan is to build a coherent society, glue people together against the Minister of the Interior. Sounds like a bit of a risky plan to me. But is that a plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U111	Thank you, good Riina! I hardly believe that you, in your goodness and with your soul, want to go against someone. Surely our goal should be the noble idea that we will not leave anyone behind, that we will support those who are weaker, and that we will help those who need help. I think our worldview and our senses are quite similar here. You said that Mart Juur is also trying to help Estonia and Finland, say, to maintain and strengthen the connection. I certainly congratulate Mart Root on his actions. There has been this in politics to unite against someone, it cannot be denied. There have been people in politics that have been united against, and years have been concentrated. Did this produce a good result for Estonia? I doubt that very much. This led to very large exclusions, exclusions of certain parties for a very long time. So in this sense, I would not recommend going against anyone, I would still try to be on someone's side, and the most important thing is to be on Estonia's side. Estonia cannot be left behind and sometimes very difficult and difficult decisions have to be made. That's what politics is like.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U112	Riina Sikkut, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U113	Thank you. I fully agree that I should not go against anyone, and I agree with the need to support people and help those in need. It also includes that a person should have a job that he can do and that is suitable for him, a job that he can handle, that does not create a stress in his work, in which he sees that he can help and be recognised for his work. It seems to me that the Minister of the Interior is not satisfied with his own work and that society is not happy with his work either. So maybe we could still go together and help him and find a place for him to play his part well. In fact, social rehabilitation, occupational rehabilitation services have also been well developed in the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs in recent years. We already have everything we need to find a job that is suitable for people, in the form of jointly funded and public services. What do you think if the new year could start with a pleasant and affordable job for the Minister of the Interior? We know he can do a lot, he described all the jobs he's filled last night in this hall. So, no doubt, this is a capable person.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U114	Thank you, good Riina! I'm not going along with that irony or even disparage. Like you, he has been elected to this Riigikogu by the Estonian people. [[A voice from the hall.]] I don't know, the Riigikogu briefing is run by the President of the Riigikogu. I understand that right now I can answer that question. Let's, I think, still because people have given a number of personal mandates here, given a circuit mandate, some have come here as alternate, but everyone here has equal status. The rate of the programmes you advertised on your question has been a little different.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U115	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U116	Thank you. Good George! You said earlier that you wouldn't accept many Mart Helme quotes. I believe you. I am quite sure that you will not accept the insult of NATO, the insult of allies, friends, yet there is no way to forget or ignore the fact that it is because of your actions that Mart Helme's words have a special weight. You were the man who decided that Mart Helme would be a member of your government, and that is how his words weigh on the words of Estonia. This message, which is sent by a member of the government, is in any case Estonia's position. That is the way it is read, and that is what many of your current colleagues have said in private conversation, and the messages are quite harsh. Everyone understands perfectly that the attention that Estonia has received is appalling. The issue of Finland's insult is far from exhausted, but it has already become clear that this is not all, because Mart Helme has also succeeded in insulting Germany, saying that Germany is not a country capable or willing to defend Estonia and other Baltic countries in the event of war. Nothing can be further from the truth, as Luftwaffe has guarded the Estonian airspace, I have also been a combat exercise at the 23rd battalion headquarters of this time, when one company was a German company. The rumor that they're using broomsticks can't be any further from the truth. They were extremely effective, highly professional, using Bivandagne and very professional armaments. How long will you let this go on? Are you really going to wait until all our friends and allies are insulted, or are we still at the border?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U117	Thank you, good Javier! You said the government minister's position was automatically the government's position. He certainly expresses his position and many may take it in such a way that it is the position of the government, so figuratively, rhetorically. You know very well yourself that it is not even the power of the government to shape these positions in international relations, that it is always before the Committee on European Union Affairs, and these principles are confirmed in the EUAK. But it doesn't in any way diminish that bad influence. I understand that during this Question Time, there has been new information from the Minister of the Interior about Germany. I've been able to read it a little bit. I'm sure I'll try to talk to him as soon as I can. In this sense, my own position coincides with your position that Germany has been an important partner for Estonia in air security; Germany is, in fact, a very important country in NATO's defence structure. I have no doubt in the case of any 29 or 30 countries that none of them could provide, if necessary, deterrence or military assistance in the NATO Alliance. You asked if there were limits. Good Javier, of course. Of course, there are limits, just as I replied to Mr Juske.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U118	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U119	Question 11. The questioner is Mart Võrguship, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U120	Thank you. Prime Minister! A few weeks ago, we heard or learned that Estonian students have again been extremely successful in PISA tests. This confirms that we have a very strong education system in Estonia. A part of the PISA tests is also a functional reading test. Absolutely without any irony, I am convinced that our Prime Minister also has a very good education. But that's what my question is gonna come up with. Let's look at this text where our Minister of the Interior has said that a seller can become Prime Minister, in a derogatory tone. Most of the Estonian people, most of the foreign media, consider it derogatory. At first you also condemned it, but then the Minister of the Interior explained that it was a recognition. I do not understand exactly how you now understand this text. Is this an insult, or is it still a tribute to the Prime Minister of Finland?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U121	Thank you for this question. I was coming back from Brussels this Sunday night, it was a weekend with a fellow official, I read these first news in the media, and then I made phone calls. If the question is how I felt it, whether it was a recognition or an insult, it was, of course, an insult, there is no dissent here. After all, that was why the Minister of the Interior apologized. Speaking of a word about the PISA tests, which may not have been the real purpose of your question, but since you touched on it, I say that I do think, on the basis of the results of 3 December, that they are primarily a great bow and acknowledgment to the Estonian teacher, the Estonian education system. It is clearly a powerful salt of the earth that must be maintained and supported. We have decided on the following state budget, which of course has been adopted by the Riigikogu: the teacher's minimum wage will rise again. If we take the teacher's average salary in 15 counties, we can see that the teacher's average wage in 15 counties actually exceeds the average wage in 15 counties. This certainly cannot be satisfied; this work must, in my opinion, be continued in any case. But yes, I agree that this is one of the most excellent news for Estonia, especially the Estonian education system and, of course, thanks to Estonian teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U122	Thank you. Looks like we're gonna get one more question. Please, a more specific question, Mart Võrguship!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U123	Yes, I agree, Prime Minister, with everything you spoke about Estonian teachers and students. Really, teachers and students are good. I admit that the state budget disappointed me a little, because the teacher's minimum wage is only rising to 65 euros and earlier rapid growth has been slowed down. At this point, however, I can say once again, as a member of Rae Vallavolikogu, that yesterday we adopted the next year's budget in Rae County, and for the second year we are paying 100 euros from the municipality in addition to the minimum, so we are really dealing with the recognition of teachers. But now it's my point. A moment ago, in answering the previous question on Germany, you said that, in your opinion too, on the basis of the information you have received quickly, Mart Helme has probably gone a little too far again. Maybe you think it's a derogatory message. You have just said this position, but if you call Mardi and Mart says, for example, that if he writes that a war is being played with broomsticks in the German army, then it is actually great, because that is how money can be saved and you don't have to buy weapons, then will you then say that this is a perfectly okay statement for him, and everything will go on the same way, or will you stick to what you have just said?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U124	Thank you. If you use your design, it's certainly an absurd statement, if anyone thinks so. That was point 1. Point 2. As I said, in NATO at large, this burden-sharing issue, in fact a 2% wager, is very keenly on the table. It has to be said that these steps have been quite good over the last few years, with pretty many billions of dollars being invested in defence policy. This promise that another $400 billion will be contributed by 2024 is, in my opinion, a good direction, but with what we say about our allies, if you use your design, that someone has, I don't know, non-serious military mechanisms that discourage, I certainly cannot agree at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U125	Thank you. I thank all the questioners. I would also like to thank the ministers for their answers. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U126	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 12th working week session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. It is possible to start by handing over drafts and enquiries. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U127	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act. This law amends a single word, but this amendment is substantive, so the tasks of Estonian National Broadcasting become mandatory for the deaf as well. So much for this bill. I will now take this opportunity to address the Office of the President of the Republic and the Estonian National Broadcasting Office. I appeal to them to secure the President's New Year's speech with subtitles and sign language just before the New Year's. It is in no way acceptable for people with hearing disabilities to receive the President's New Year's greeting one day later. The New Year's night is one night a year on December 31st. The President will then greet society as a whole and people with hearing impairments will be part of society. I ask you to ensure that the whole of society, including people with hearing impairments, who are equally members of society and taxpayers, receive the President's speech with as little delay as possible on the same night. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U128	The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs Heili Tõnisson.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U129	Honourable Vice President! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching four draft laws today. Firstly, the draft Act on the ratification of the 2007 Convention on the Removal of International Ship wrecks by Nairobi. Rene Kokk, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act and the Labour Market Services and Support Act. Arvo Aller, the Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on Compliance with Product Requirements. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels. The Government of the Republic is represented in Taavi Aas, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure in the Riigikogu when dealing with these two draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U130	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. I have adopted five draft laws on behalf of the board. The Management Board shall process them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 92 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 9.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U131	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have two items on the agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law 103 on amendments to consumer protection law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. We can go to the final vote. I would remind you that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required to adopt the draft as a law. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 103. Please take a stand and vote. 91 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-18_U132	Today's second item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. We can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 89 amending the Tax Exchange Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 88 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. Today's trial is over. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 2.09 p.m.
