ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! Thank you. There are 45 members of the Riigikogu and there are no 56 members. The following members of the government will take part in today's Question Time: the Prime Minister of Interior Mart Helme, the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas and the Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab. The questioners shall receive the floor in accordance with the order in which they are to speak. Members of the Riigikogu have registered to ask a question, which is two minutes. The question registrant will also be able to ask the question to be specified. There are three minutes to respond. Since we have a lot of registered questions today, one additional question can be asked from the floor. It can be done by the one with the quickest fingers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U2	But let's get started. The first question is that of Mr Ossinovski, Minister of the Interior Mart Helme, in the role of Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The first question concerns foreign policy plans and pushes you from your speech at last week's government press conference, where, as you are today, you were in the position of Head of Government. In fact, you spoke there about the Estonian-Russian border agreement, the last version of which, currently in force, was signed in 2014, during the previous and previous government. The following governments have considered this concluded border agreement to be a right and good thing and have also sought a political opportunity to ratify it, which, for various reasons, has not yet succeeded, but it has still been accepted as valid. You said that the border agreement you have concluded is, in your opinion, 'not legally correct and in accordance with international law'. My question is simple: is this a major foreign policy change of the new government, supported by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, that the border agreement concluded on behalf of the Republic of Estonia under the laws of the Republic of Estonia is legally incorrect and contrary to international law? Can it be said that the new government has decided to support your long-term proposal to withdraw Estonia's signature from this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U4	Dear Riigikogu! There is no consensus on the border agreement concluded by this government in 2005. The two parties to the government, the Conservative People's Party of Isamaa and Estonia, consider that this border agreement is not compatible with the birth certificate of the Republic of Estonia, or the Tartu Peace Treaty of 1920. As a result, there is also no consensus on the progress made in ratifying this agreement, which was signed in 2005, I would not even say.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U5	Thank you. Jevgeni Ossinovski, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U6	Thank you. The second question about the government's plans concerns citizenship policy. The Coalition Agreement allows citizens of Russia, Ukraine and other countries to give citizenship to children and grandchildren born here if their parents have lived in Estonia since regaining independence. In my opinion, this is a very sensible point which, with some modifications, was included in the previous coalition agreement. At that time, this proposal did not become a law because the IRL changed its mind on the matter and said at some point that it did not support it. Seeder said that the Citizenship Act will not be changed as long as the Fatherland and Res Publica Union are in the government coalition. The Fatherland and Res Publica Union are no longer in government, and the Fatherland is apparently more flexible on the issue of citizenship, but your party has also been critical of this proposal so far. For example, in January of this year, your son Martin Helme said that such a proposal would divide society and he felt that we should not give citizenship to people born here without examination. He said the golden words: "The sheep will not become a horse because he was born in the stable. ' The Citizenship Act is in the government's domain of your responsibility. That's my question. Whether you support the amendment of the citizenship policy set out in the coalition agreement and will soon submit a draft on this issue to the Riigikogu, or whether it is a point that you yourself have recently said that it may be in the coalition agreement, but in principle there will also be an agreement in the coalition that if there is no consensus on any matter, these steps will not be taken and 'if our consensus is not given, these steps will not be taken'. Which one is it now? Is this a point that you will soon initiate as a minister, and the Riigikogu will be able to decide on this issue, or is it a point that you do not really support, and we do not see the draft law on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U7	Honourable questioner! You missed a few little details. One detail is that very precisely there is a set of people to whom this applies. Secondly, you overlooked that we are essentially extending the scope of the examination. If comprehensive school graduates pass a proper language examination and if they pass our social education exam or whatever name it starts to wear at a level that allows citizenship, they will be able to apply for citizenship, provided that they do not have double citizenship. So there are no fundamental views that change the way citizenship is granted, but perhaps we can say that this is the way to gain citizenship. We also took out the numbers of the people it concerns. These numbers go in a descending line, and it doesn't affect more than a few thousand people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U8	Thank you. Next question, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U9	Thank you, President-in-Office. Mr. Helme! I watched you perform yesterday on ETV's First Studio. You performed there like an emotionally bloated ordinary citizen, I don't know, man, young man. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Vanamees.'???]] You get nervous easily, you lose your nerves easily. Such a warm suggestion: given that you are the Minister of the Interior, you are the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government of Jüri Ratas, still try to control yourself better. My question comes to this point, and I would like to emphasise once again: you are the Minister of the Interior, that you said freshly in this form, so that this statement also reached the international media, as if all Estonian political parties, apart from EKRE, had been involved in money laundering in Estonia. You're the Minister of the Interior. Who gave you this briefing yesterday morning where these claims were made?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U10	Now you've confused a lot of things. First of all, I didn't talk about it on television. Secondly, on television, I was not nervous at all, but perhaps strongly emotional if you so wish. [[The excitement in the hall.]] I didn't have two refrigerators to cool myself between, unlike your party buddy. [[Voices in the hall.]] So, yeah, that's the kind of little problem we had on television. But you asked me what I said about money laundering. I have not pointed out to any political party, I said that money laundering took place during the reign of three political parties in power for a long time, and I pointed out that the mass of money that passed through Estonia was so terrible that it would have been enough for corrupt transactions everywhere and for everyone. I didn't refer to you, Jürgen Ligi, anyone's third, fourth or fifth. I was pointing to a potential opportunity that could easily come up with any thinking person using a deductive method.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U12	Next is the opportunity to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, a question on Jürgen Ligil.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U13	Thank you. Mr. Acting Prime Minister Helme! The Minister of the Interior of your government has gotten on the air every day with some kind of threat, some kind of charge against different groups of society. We have also just heard threats and accusations from the remote, linking opponents to money laundering and corruption. Money laundering is a crime, by the way, and the Minister of the Interior cannot throw such words at random. They have received constant justifications from him. Society is divided into its own and traitors, some of which, according to it, are infiltrated traitors. He even took an oath to the tsunami rather than to the Republic of Estonia. I have a question about that. What is your government's policy to create truth, justice and a sense of security in society? What's your deal? Do all of your ministers continue to divide society into their own and enemies? Is this the start that your government's Home Secretary made on May 2nd at a government press conference? The Minister of the Interior threatened a specific case, I repeat, witnesses, called them anonymous, which they were not, said they had been identified. One of them, according to the press, has already been followed in the city. I repeat: you are the Minister of the Interior and you are also acting Prime Minister and we are talking about your Minister of the Interior. Your Home Secretary is threatening witnesses in the context of a criminal case, suggesting that a potential victim is guilty, not a potential criminal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U14	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U15	Thank you, Mr. Asker! You're confusing something with a completely right triangle. I didn't threaten anyone, I didn't threaten anyone with a criminal case. What I said was that crucifying people on the basis of anonymous sources means violating the presumption of innocence, and I cannot agree with that. I made it clear that Rakvere is a small town, and there people know very well who have been knocking on whom. This is a brief summary of my speech or, if you wish, a translation for you if you did not fully understand the original text. So no one has been threatened, no one has abused power, no one has interfered with investigations. I didn't quite understand what you were asking for. As far as my coalition associates are concerned, coalition associates don't have to take responsibility for what I say, coalition associates don't have to apologize for what I say. I'm responsible for what I said, and if I have to, I'm sorry myself. If necessary, I don't see the need for it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U16	Thank you. Specific question, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U17	Thank you. Society undoubtedly perceived this as a threat, and this threat was also put into practice in Rakvere. One of the people accused of testifying to your party associates has done so He went to the police on that. I will read out what you said here as Minister of the Interior: 'I cannot in any way approve of the fact that some childguards and some representatives of women's organisations are already going to the door of this family who are interfering in the internal affairs of this family. On what grounds? ' You mentioned anonymous witnesses, etc. First of all, the Minister of the Interior should know that no anonymous witnesses are taken into account, that people are taken into account for their face and name. But as your Minister of the Interior, you can't ask anyone to exhibit yourself publicly. There are close people who have shared information. In any case, you cannot choose sides in this way. Now I ask you as acting Prime Minister: is it going to be like this that one minister protects women and children, the other minister, the Minister of the Interior then, threatens the guardians of women and children, claims that it is not their business what happens in the family, that beating women is something that is not a public issue at all when it is a member of the EKRE and a minister? What, then, is government policy and what is the consistency between ministers in this context? If the EKRE Minister is allowed to do so, what would the Minister of the Centre Party do to protect the victims? How can the Witnesses fulfill their mission in society in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U18	Time!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U19	Please speak as Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U20	Ladies and gentlemen, You have a very good literary ability to interpret these words as justification for beating a woman, to interpret them as an attack on women, to interpret them as an attack on children. I'm the father of six children, I have three daughters, I've had two husbands with whom I've had the luck of having these six children. To accuse me of such things is literally an impertinent, offensive, and totally fabulous interpretation. So I don't agree with you, and our entire government doesn't agree with it, like we're looking at some kind of soft-eyed violence. That is your arbitrary interpretation as a opposition politician.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U21	Thank you. The next question is Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U22	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Helme! Do we get it right that there are many roles in life, and the role you are in today requires a different approach and a different use of words? I can't even believe you in this hall. Jürgen Ligi was not the only one who understood those words as he pointed out here today. Rather, he brought a message about how society as a whole understood those words and about the discussion that your statement caused. My question also relates to previous answers, where you argued that you were using a certain method of assessment. But what method did you evaluate when you said that, under the watchful eye of three parties or other parties, there were billions of euro laundry in Estonia, and you are clean of it? What kind of logic do you say this money might not have gotten into your hands? I'm trying to understand. Do you realize that if you say so, you are actually creating very deep doubts about things that have not been proven, which have no basis and which have not been investigated in a place where such an assessment could ever occur? You are here today as acting Prime Minister, but in fact, you are the Minister of the Interior, who, in essence, should create justice, transparency and security. Why are you acting like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U23	Thank you. I think I'm being completely restrained and rational. I did not understand the substance of your question at all, it was very scattered. If you ask me what I approve or disapprove of, I don't approve of crucifixing people in the press on the basis of anonymous sources. Nor do I approve, for example, that I and the men of our party have been called unsatisfied men who need free brothels. Is it respectable, is it a journalistic and constructive level that we want in Estonia? We are randomly attributed, and I do not know from what considerations any qualities, views and claims that are complete fiction. I honestly don't understand what you're trying to incriminate me. I'm a perfectly normal person, I have a perfectly normal reaction to your questions, very restrained, but I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U24	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U25	Next is the question of the Minister of the Interior Mart Helmele Riina Sikkut. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Good Mart Helme! In the case of the previous two questioners, you were surprised how they didn't understand things. I hope I've been able to draw the right picture of the statements and statements made in the press over the last few months, but you can fix me. Let me get this straight. The national broadcasting must be shaken apart and reassembled, that we have journalists who don't know how to work? Yesterday they were added to the list of Maria-Ann Rohemäe, earlier there were Andres Kuusk, Johannes Tralla, Ahto Lobjakas and Vilja Kiisler, these journalists lie, they don't ask the right questions, they don't use the right tone. Varro Vooglaid has sent out a petition, which also reads programmes that have a negative image that does not provide information that is suitable for people. After all, we have already lived in a situation where the functioning of national broadcasting is governed by politicians who decide who works as a journalist and what tone and what questions may be asked. In my opinion, there is very little freedom in the press in this situation, and that is bad. What do you think is freedom of the press?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U27	Thank you for your question. You probably didn't live much at the time you're talking about, that we've been living at that time. I did. So we obviously have experiential differences in this respect. But I specifically brought along a newspaper that sets out the views of several media experts on freedom of the press. I'll read them to you so you can't tell me I've said it. Professor Epp Lauk said: "Media controls the power of politicians with great vigilance. However, the media itself has the same power, if not even greater. Now, if you ask how the responsible use of this power is guaranteed, who will guard against abuse of that power, the questioner will be nailed to the cross as an apologetic to the censorship. Every attempt to regulate is immediately translated into censorship and a threat to freedom of expression. " That is what Professor Epp Lauk has said. I'm quoting a few more statements. For example, Enn-Toivo Annuk, a former long-term civil servant, has said: 'People are not often allowed to speak, but are forced upon them. Those who have spoken critically about the press have not spoken about the need to restrict freedom of expression, but are opposed to style. That if you do not respond as expected, the same question will start again again in another wording. In short, I see no muzzles against all these media conflicts, but a desire for the 'large media' to have the same view of all views. " For some time, the president of your party, former President Toomas Hendrik Ilves, did not appear to the public in 2014 to harass freedom of speech with a disapproving statement when Tallinn TV was banned from participating in a press conference of the Government of Taavi Rõivas. On this point, Rait Maruse, a member of your party, of the Reform Party, wrote: 'It is not the Prime Minister's business, although he may not like TTV, to begin to do so in his own personal capacity and to be expelled by simple liking is not the right thing to do about freedom of expression and media. ' These are my answers to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U28	Thank you. A more specific question from Riina Sikkut. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U29	Indeed, our experiences are different and you should be more keen on the importance of freedom of the press and freedom of expression. Of course, we may not like everything that appears in the press. For example, the day before yesterday, I answered questions about dolphin's excise duty. I thought I was extremely balanced, reflecting the various risks and aspects of the excise duty cuts, did not take the view whether it was good or bad, right or wrong. The title declared death and destruction. Of course, I would like to decide for myself what will be the title, I would like to decide for myself how I and my opinions will be reflected in the press, but I understand where this will lead. This would lead to such a thing as Instagram, where people themselves decide what they show and reflect, it is not truth, reality, or real life. When some people determine what journalistic content is, such as in the Lens or in the New News, the same question arises as to how much truth there is, how much reality and real life are there. Yes, of course, the press must have rules, but these rules are not determined by politicians, but by journalists themselves. Now my second question to you: what do you see as the role of the press if it is not to seek and present the truth?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U30	The definition of the role of the press does not fall within my competence; the press defines its role itself. As far as freedom of expression is concerned, freedom of expression is, of course, when people can express their minds through their words. If you are trying to incriminate me as if I were to determine the titles and content of the articles, then there can be nothing more distant than the truth, because unfortunately I have had the impression that in Estonia, at least from the liberal side, the criterion of freedom of expression has become how indiscriminately to blame, slander and label the Estonian Conservative People's Party. This has become a measure of freedom of expression for many, but we do not accept it and we protest against it. It is also freedom of expression if we protest against it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U31	Thank you. Now there is an opportunity to ask a question on Urmas Kruus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mart Helme! I will try to explain more with each question and make myself more understandable so that you too can understand. In my previous question, I actually referred to the role of a member of the Government of the Republic of Estonia as such, which also sets certain criteria for saying and speaking. If you referred to the fact that the press has tried to call you either unsatisfied men or whoever you said it was, then I remember that it has been said on behalf of your party that you should start flying from this very remote point of view. Perhaps you could say that this is a type of rhetoric. If this is the rhetoric you're using here, and you resent the rhetoric of others, then the question is, do you want to measure everyone in one measure? But what worries me is that you don't realize that this pattern of behavior can extend to society. I think it's dangerous. That word has more weight than you might think at first. That's the problem that I've been asking my questions about. You referred here to freedom of the press and Tallinn Television, who at one point was not admitted to the Stenbock House for a press conference. As far as I know, this part of the press was not part of a common, code of ethics family. I think it was the right thing to do. Do you at all admit that the role you are in today requires a clearer increase in the weight and value of speech?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U33	Thank you for your question. The subject is quite pertinent, because we can see that the use of words on the liberal side is much more raging and brutal than it is on our side. I do not know that, unlike some social democrats, I would have sent a bear to somewhere in the current Riigikogu Committee, and I do not know that we would have used some kind of obscene words that are often used by the liberal side. So we understand weight very well. However, we also understand that this slippery and round political style is a thing of the past. We see how people with a new style shape real politics in the world. Donald Trump is shaping world politics. You may not like it, but he's shaping it. Matteo Salvini is shaping world politics. You may not like it, but he's shaping it. These are people who, like us, are very straightforward and frank. If the gentle souls feel that it's hurting them somehow, there's nothing to be done about it, because the world is moving on. The liberal world holds retreat battles and the new world, which uses more relief language, takes over this role, accept it or resent it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U34	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U35	Next, Hanno Pevkur, he too has a question for the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U36	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Mart Helme, a good Prime Minister! However, I would like to remind you that you are really doing the Prime Minister's duties here today, and I would also point out that it is not only the Prime Minister, but also the Minister of the Interior, who is responsible for the rule of law. I recall one vote that took place yesterday in this Chamber, concerning the withdrawal of the immunity of Mr Kallo's envoy, when the members of the EKRE and the Centre Party unanimously did not support Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise's proposal to remove the immunity of Mr Kallo. As we know, this trial is a bribery process, and it is not a question of whether or not someone has been called into question, but is already specifically accused of a particular case and the case is pending. If a person is indicted in a criminal case, his first task should be to prove his or her innocence and to stand up for his or her good name. Yesterday we saw that the members of the EKRE and the Centre Party wanted to hide behind the curve rather than justice during the vote. I am asking for your assessment and your opinion on the vote yesterday. What is your assessment of the behaviour of the politicians of the two parties, who hid behind the curve instead of justice, and what do you think is the signal to society of this choice?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U37	Thank you. The signal to society is that members of the Riigikogu used freedom of conscience and voted or abstained, just as they thought it was right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U38	Thank you. The next question is Ruuben Kaalepi.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U39	Thank you. First of all, as President of the Group on Support for freedom of expression, I would like to congratulate the Government of the Republic for not continuing with the draft criminalisation of the so-called hate speech. But my question: has there been any pressure on Estonia in this direction, say, the institutions of the European Union or the Western countries? If so, isn't it a gruesome interference in Estonia's internal affairs and an attempt to restrict our fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U40	Thank you. During this short period, when I have been part of the government of the Republic of Estonia, this issue has never been raised, nor have I heard that any institution of the Republic of Estonia would have been put under such pressure. However, we have read in the press that calls for this in Europe, here and there, also at the level of the European Commission, are made from time to time. There were very clear concerns about the muzzle of the press, about the suppression of political debate. In my personal opinion, legitimising hate speech is precisely the instrument by which society can be forced into the frame of a firm ideology and the critics of this ideology to silence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U41	Thank you. The question to be specified is Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U42	First of all, I'm sorry I couldn't press the button right away, I had questions here on this electronic thing. I'm sorry! Mart Helme, a good Prime Minister! If you look at this debate here today, which has also been part of the rule of law, it can be said that, of course, there must be different opinions in one rule of law and they are entirely appropriate, but I have the impression that you still do not fully understand your role in this Chamber and these responsibilities at the moment. After all, you are actually performing the duties of Prime Minister today, i.e. every word you say will shape the position of the Estonian state and add a piece to the reputation of the Estonian state. Indeed, as I believe has been said here once, in fact, in the role you are now in, you cannot be an emotionally overwrought man. You have already used a lot of personal snaps and personal insults in this Chamber in this very short period of time today. This is not appropriate for the Minister in charge of Prime Ministership. Looking at your previous speeches, I ask you this: do you think there is an EKRE opinion and a wrong opinion? Consequently, I would also like to ask you that you have often used the term 'deep state'. This concept was introduced by Russian historian Andrei Fursov, speaking of the term glubinnaja vlast. I understand more or less what a democratic rule of law means, but perhaps you will explain to us what, in your understanding, a deep state means. Once again, maybe we could start with the question of whether you think there is an EKRE opinion and a wrong opinion, and then go to the deep state.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U43	Thank you. I see that, on the contrary, there is a liberal opinion and there is a wrong opinion, represented by the EKRE. So here we are in equal positions in this sense. This is an ideological struggle. Ideological fighting is perfectly normal in a democratic society, and we shall continue to fight it. So it is not just our opinion and wrong opinion that is the opinion of the other party, and the other party thinks it is the wrong opinion. That's one thing. That's another thing. You're asking me if I understand what I'm saying and what I'm doing. I understand very well, I'm a perfectly healthy person. I want to change the political paradigm, our party wants to change the political paradigm. If you haven't figured that out in the last five or six years, you're a bad politician. I'm sorry, I don't want to take personal offense, this is the kind of political hearing we're talking about. One part of the question was still a deep state. This term doesn't come from Russia, so don't weld it to me so much. I certainly know Russia better than most of the people in this room. I have no illusions about what the Russian Empire is, not any illusions. As far as the deep state is concerned, this term comes purely from the United States, it is deep state in English, and that means special operations of special services, networks of special services, the impact of special services on society. Let us not say that this means specifically an impact on politics, we are talking about the impact on society. If someone tries to say it doesn't exist, I'll say it does, of course. If it did not exist, there could also not be effective work by the special services. So it's that simple, and that's the deep state.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U44	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U45	Next, Anneli Ott was in line, but since she is absent today, we will skip the fifth question and go to the sixth, presented by Helmen Küttt to the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U46	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister of the Interior in charge of the Prime Minister! It is known to everyone that the situation of informal caretakers in Estonia is very bad. This situation often depends on your place of residence, depending on your municipality's decision, the amount of benefits varies greatly. It was nicer to read about the programme of all three parties in the coalition today that everyone wanted to deal with it. Programme of the Centre Party: 'We guarantee adequate support and retirement for our own carers. We raise the care allowance to EUR 100 per month. "From the Fatherland program, your coalition agreement includes a sentence entitled "Let's improve the national principles for paying carer support." I very much enjoyed the principle set out in your programme that you will raise the care allowance for the care of people with deep disabilities to the minimum wage and guarantee the allowance for those who need it. The original text of the coalition program, which I read out, is clear. Interpret or translate to me what this original text means. This is also something that needs to be done by those who are caring for themselves who are doing this hard and grateful work all over Estonia, and who receive very different kinds of support. Maybe now you'll translate and interpret, then I'll find out, and the people who do this job will find out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U47	Thank you for your question. This is one of the very clear points of our society, which is why it is also highlighted in the programmes of all political parties. When I try to translate it, without being an in-depth specialist in this field, I say that our aim is to reduce the burden on those who care about ourselves, we have an attempt to create opportunities for help. The possibility of assistance also means that it is possible to find replacements who give holidays, who give ease to people who give them the opportunity to work alongside informal care, because we know very well that it is often simply impossible to work alongside it. We also intend to review the balance between the responsibilities and opportunities of the state and local governments. The exact way it forms, the dare not, and I cannot tell you right now, I confess honestly. However, I can say that the issue is also at the heart of the debate on the country's budgetary strategy. The debate on the country's budgetary strategy will continue tomorrow in the office, and next week the government will continue in full composition in order to set specific numbers and directions. So this is not an empty word in the coalition agreement. But I'm really sorry, I'm not an in-depth specialist in this field, and I may not be able to answer you as exhaustively as you expect. If you want and wait, we can give you a explanatory written answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U48	Thank you. Please specify the question, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U49	Thank you very much. The question to be specified is very simple. I do not expect this from 1 July, but is it hoped from 1 January that the care allowance for the care of people with deep disabilities will rise to the minimum wage, as stated in your programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U50	Yeah. It is expected in this sense that, when we reach agreement with local authorities, we will be able to take appropriate steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U51	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mart Helme! Just as the questioner could understand, they too seek a very precise explanation for each word. It is extremely important that perhaps more vulnerable groups in society get the truth from members of the government, honestly and adequately know what they can expect. Certainly, everything that concerns the weakest in society is extremely important. My follow-up question relates to the fact that you have said several times that you want to implement, on the one hand, both a reduction in excise duty and a pension increase. What concerns pensions is very clearly linked to the weaker group of society. Which one are you in favor of, and which one are you prepared to stand for?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U53	We are in favour of both, of course. We are talking again about media freedom in the case of titles, as said by Tanel Kiige. The absence of an extraordinary pension increase is neither a correct title nor a correct interpretation. The search for emergency retirement funds is ongoing, some of the funds have already been found. As far as excise duties are concerned, we are really trying to cut down already from 1 July, but this only concerns excise duties on alcohol. We will also proceed with discussions on the reduction of excise duties on fuel, gas and electricity. Some opponents try to argue that this reduces the revenue from the state budget. Yesterday, we had schematics and calculations in our office. As far as excise duties on alcohol are concerned, the likelihood that the revenue from the state budget will decrease is close to zero, but we can talk after a few months of buffering periods about the increase in the revenue from the state budget. To what extent, no Igor Mang or any other fortune teller can say exactly, but growth is likely to be quite significant after a delay of two to three months.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U54	Thank you very much. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U55	The next question can be put to the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U56	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good answer! Yesterday we witnessed the grand campaign event of EKRE, where you showed both Estonia and the whole of Europe, who are your friends and allies. As the most colourful guest, you had invited Marine Le Pen, who has been known to have been a symbol of the division of Europe for quite several years, as well as a beacon of Kremlin-mindedness. Let us remind you that Le Pen's view is that NATO should not deal with Article 5, including protecting us, but with other issues. Marine Le Pen has spoken about the closure of Schengen, has also taken the view that the annexation of Crimea was completely acceptable, and did not find its size to support the homecoming of Eston Kohver, which was a crucial question for Estonia at the time, many of us wore yellow ribbons in our breasts and hope that Eston Kohver would come home. If your most important allies in Europe are dividers, then it will inevitably be a question of what it says about the EKRE and what your EKRE will be the first number, or whoever is elected from your team, will want to go to the European Parliament. Am I right to understand that you want to divide Europe and make a major difference to the Europe we know today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U57	Thank you. I have to say, of course, that first of all, it was a completely arbitrary construction. The Marine Le Pen said very clearly and unambiguously at the press conference: we will not allow Europe to go under Putin's paw. Is this a division of Europe, is that a Russian spirit? I cannot say what is less Russian than saying that we will not allow Europe to go under Putin's paw. That's one thing. Second thing, I suggest you get to know the history of France after World War II. Since President de Gaulle, France has been very independent and it could be said that it is even a selfish foreign policy and security policy. If you consider all these French presidents and statesmen, foreign ministers, prime ministers who have spoken of France being in the role of balancing between Eastern Europe and Russia and the United States, it is also a division. Then why didn't you consider Mitterrand to be a splitter when he visited Estonia in the early 1990s, why didn't you consider the later French presidents to be splitters who have pursued a similar policy, it doesn't make sense to me. Third moment. Marine Le Pen is a opposition politician and does not directly set the course for France, but Le Pen sets the mood in France. This mood is aimed at France not wanting to be part of the European Empire, but rather at being a sovereign, self-deciding state. This is the point of contact we have with Marine Le Pen, Matteo Salvin and Austrians, Poles and Hungarians, whom you call splitters, but who are actually out for the interests of their people and country. They enjoy, by the way, very much support from their own people, which should be acceptable from a democratic point of view. So your constructions are completely arbitrary. Yesterday at the press conference we said, and elsewhere we have also made it very clear that we do not share the views of Marine Le Pen on Russian issues, we do not have to share. When we sat over the table with him and exchanged ideas on the subject, we found very quickly that we had different history and attitudes and that we mutually accepted it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U58	Thank you. Please, Taavi Clothe, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U59	Thank you. Well, if Le Pen says he doesn't want Europe under Putin's paw, I don't believe that for a gram, because the Crimea is also in the case of Europe and Crimea, he has shown it by action and by saying that it is okay to let this part of Europe under Putin's paw literally. I do not want to know whether Estonia is on the right side or on the wrong side of Europe, whether or not it can be let down by Putin. It is no big secret that most foreign policy experts, as well as very many journalists, believe that Le Pen himself is largely under Putin's thumb. So the expression that it does not want Europe there is not very serious. I would like to thank you for the suggestion to familiarize yourself with French history. In the recent history of France, Estonia has stood next to France on several occasions. We were in the Central African Republic together, we were in Mali together. I was also able to visit the Estonian Defence Forces on these missions myself, as well as to talk to the French President about the French troops coming to Estonia, to talk about why it is important to Estonia that France does not buy warships from Russia in the middle of the biggest crisis. And France gave it up because he listened to his allies. This is a very important part of the recent history of France and Estonia. But now to the question. Your colleague Jüri Ratas said that the government you both belong to is 101% pro-European. The European Union is well known to be built on liberal values, but you said that the liberal world is now fighting retreat. How is that now, how many percent do you think this government is pro-European, 100%, 101%, or this percentage is close to zero?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U60	Thank you. First of all, things in the world, of course, do not move according to what anyone in this Chamber believes or does not believe. Things don't happen on a religious basis. We may or may not believe a lot of things, but it doesn't change the reality. As for Le Pen, once again, I would like to see what you are talking about when Le Pen is elected President of France. Are you just being critical? Are you just being judgmental? I don't think so. Le Pen has serious prospects of becoming President of France. Also, Donald Trump was enjoying himself when he campaigned. I remember very well how we, too, in the National Defence Committee, had all kinds of experts and characters talking about how Trump couldn't be president of the United States, that's out of the question, and that would be a disaster for what would happen then. Trump became president, and now we have somewhat changed the tone. We have changed somewhat and we will change more, because we cannot ignore our most important ally, the United States. France is also not changing its foreign policy course under the Marine Le Pen, that is clear. But if you are talking about annexation of Crimea and its recognition, I will remind you of another French President, Nicolas Sarkozy, who was involved in mediation during the Georgian war. The Georgian war was ended by an agreement which he guaranteed that Russian troops would leave occupied territory, being moved to their starting positions, i.e. beyond the Rock tunnel, out of South Ossetia. The Russian troops are still in South Ossetia. Nicolas Sarkozy, in essence, gave the Georgians a shattered eye; in fact, he did not guarantee this agreement and subsequently acknowledged not only the Russian annexation in South Ossetia, but also the subsequent and accompanying annexation in Abkhazia. So it's real politics, we can believe it or we can't believe it, but we can't. So there's no need to take a very elevated relief from either Le Pen or anyone else. In fact, I would like to conclude by stressing that the alliance, which is about to take shape now, in the run-up to the European Parliament elections and which forms one of the strongest groups in the European Parliament, is not just Marine Le Pen, it is made up of representatives of about 15 countries at present. It is a pan-European force, which is certainly very divisive on very many issues, but united in the basic, European community of nation states. If you ask how many percent this government is pro-European, then 100%, but it is pro-European of nation states, not pro-European of the European Empire.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U61	Thank you. The next question is Ruuben Kaalepi.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U62	Thank you. It is public information that many of the leaders of the European Union, as well as the German and French leaders, have expressed their views that the European Union should restrict the sovereignty of the Member States and give more power to the institutions of the European Union. Should we see such statements as a direct threat to our national independence?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U63	That's a good question. This is precisely the pressure that comes from the European Commission and from the leadership of countries that work closely with the European Commission and influence the decisions of the European Commission, particularly Germany, which wants to centralise Europe. Centralising Europe in the long term means precisely what President Macron has referred to, who says that there are neither Danes nor French, are Europeans. I want to be European, but I want to be Estonian too. I think the Dane wants to be a Dane, besides being a European. And the Frenchman, as we saw yesterday, wants not only to be European but also to be French. This is the reaction that we see growing and growing across Europe, it is a response to centralisation, it is a response to this terrible manifesto, which has been written together by Guy Verhofstadt and Daniel Cohn-Bendit, which is saying that Europe must become a post-ethnic community. It has been pointed out here that we have already lived in a system that we no longer want back. I would say that it was not even said in this country that nations must be eradicated, but now the chairs of the large political groups in the European Parliament are writing a manifesto saying that nations must be eradicated in Europe. The question is not rhetorical, the content is appalling. In fact, both are appalling, both rhetoric and content. There will be no post-national Europe and there will be, by the way, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U64	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U65	Next, a question for the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Heidy Purga, please! I'm sorry! Yeah, I jumped over a question. There is still a question for Mart Helme, but the questioner is Katri Raik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U66	Good President! Minister Helme! The government is known to have a national budget strategy for the coming years, and research funding is one of the most serious issues. In December 2018, representatives of many parties signed an agreement allowing public R &amp; D &amp; I funding to be increased to 1% of GDP over three years. At the time, your home party maintained that this is a far too low-ambitious position. However, 1% would also mean increasing research funding by at least a third. The situation, as we know, is extremely difficult. Often a young scientist with a doctorate receives less pay than a metropolitan teacher. As Academician Jüri Allik has said, I think it sounds very good, that, despite everything, Estonian science is world-class. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas said at the time: 'I believe that this good word and signature guarantee that when the word is given, the word must be kept. ' Do you, Mr Helme, confirm that the funding of science from public money over the next three years will rise to 1% of our GDP?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U67	Thank you. That's the goal. Yesterday, when we were sitting in the office, by the way, we had a chart of the pay levels of university faculty and researchers on the wall, and there was a graph of what extent these salaries would need to be increased and possible to improve science funding at all. It's written as a purpose. I cannot tell you any exact numbers today, but as I have said many times today, both tomorrow and next week these debates and fights will continue. We all know that a country's budgetary strategy means that the blanket is not long enough anyway, someone's toes are still outside. But we have a goal and, to some extent, an increase in funding will certainly come, to what extent, I do not dare to say at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U68	Thank you. Please specify the question, Katri Raik!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U69	Thank you for your answer. Can we be sure that the toes of both our beloved police officers and rescue officers are not out of the way? In other words, do you think that the rise in police salaries up to 1.2 times the average wage in Estonia and the increase in the wages of rescue officers and rescue managers up to the average wage in Estonia is realistic? Is that your priority too?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U70	Thank you. This is indeed one of the priorities of the country's budgetary strategy. I would say that this is also one of the most money-intensive parts. I'm not gonna say numbers just in case, I might be wrong, and then they say Helme lied. But these raises are really considerable, 20% to 30%.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U71	Thank you. Now there's the question of Tavi Clothes. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U72	Thank you, chairman of the meeting. Good answer! First, I'll give you information on excise duties. Since before July, if the excise duty on alcohol could fall, the Riigikogu has three weeks left for the sitting, our recommendation is, and actually, the only way to implement this policy is to support the draft initiated by the Reform Party Group, which ensures that there are 34 votes in this Chamber. I suggest you consider this very seriously, because you will probably not be able to complete the government's draft procedures in three weeks. But the question is, by the way, this has been asked by a lot of people who supported the EKRE at meetings where I have been in the last few months, saying that the EKRE has forgotten about the issues that they made promises about before the elections. It is recalled that you promised to double your pension and raise it to at least EUR 800. It is recalled that you promised to reduce VAT to 15%. My personal favourite is the promise that income tax will fall according to the number of children, so that every child can have a 5% reduction in income tax. What happened to all this? Do any of these promises also receive funding through the state budget strategy, or do you admit that before the elections, you drove your constituents into total crap and forgot them immediately, the next day?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U73	Thank you. I guess before the elections, I was also looking at the promises made by the Reform Party that you made in previous elections, such as 2015. You haven't fulfilled them, either, if we're talking about keeping our promises. It's good to promise. A good man who promises, even better, who does what the proverb says. We do. I'm sure there'll be a pension rise. We'll find the means. Our promise to double the pensions for four years was said in a four-year perspective. Now, personally, I haven't been a member of the government for two weeks, so if you're waiting for everything to happen right now, that's not gonna happen. We're working on it. The drop of the excises must be on it you can take the poison, but not in the way you want to do it, but in the way we want to do it. So in addition to supporting your bill, there are other ways of getting under the roof before 1 July by means of a bill to cut excise duties. We're working on it. Can we do that? I won't take the poison, but we'll try. As far as other things are concerned, we had a lot of other promises, too, and we also deal with these other promises. So give me a little bit of time to set the pace, and believe me, at the end of the year you'll see that we've done a whole lot of these things. But as far as meeting voters is concerned, I have heard again from our people that as soon as Taavi appears in the garment, the people will break up.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U74	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U75	Heidy Purga now has the opportunity to put a question to the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mart Helme, I am a journalist who cares about freedom of the press as well as freedom of expression. As a former member of the Broadcasting Council, I also follow with great attention everything that is happening around the Estonian National Broadcasting. Since I work in the Riigikogu, of course I am also a great watcher of the political programmes that can be seen in the ERR. I came to see "First Studio" yesterday, where you were a guest. I want to ask you about this show and some of the claims you made on that show. What are your arguments based on yesterday's ETV 'First Studio', where you said to us about the correspondent Maria-Ann Rohemäe of Estonian National Broadcasting: 'By the way, Maria-Ann Rohemäe has cheated on us and lied to us about America for two and a half years, how Trump is an agent of Putin'? More specifically, you called the Green Mountains a liar twice in one show. Will you stick to your words and if you stay, how will you ever see the possibility of cooperation between the government and the public ERR?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U77	You see, cooperation between the government and the ERR is, of course, possible, because the government and the ERR are two relatively independent things, at least in ideological terms. We don't get involved in what they do. As for Maria-Ann Rohemäe, look at what she said a few years ago about Mueller's report, about Mueller's investigation and about Donald Trump's ties to Russia, and then you will understand. Wisdom in hindsight is an exact science, and this exact science tells us that what he reported to us over several years, telling us what kind of villain Donald Trump is, has absolutely not been true. This means that he was either poorly informed or acted as a political activist, which is also possible and which would not, in principle, be appropriate for a neutral Estonian National Broadcasting journalist.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U78	Thank you. Specific question, Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U79	Thank you. The second question is also about national broadcasting, but from a slightly different angle. What assessment do you, Mrs Helme, in your duties as Prime Minister, give to the recent news that says that Varro Vooglaid, the leader of the Foundation for the Protection of the Family and Tradition, has begun an all-Estonian collection of signatures to put pressure on journalists and management of national broadcasting? In this petition, the Vooglais complain to the ERR Board that there are no political programmes in the programme that would be led by escorts with a conservative outlook. Remember, Martin Helme, a member of the ERR Council, failed to attempt to punish journalists on national broadcasting because of their alleged sentiment, and now Helme's thinker, Vooglai, is trying to get the people back on their feet. What is your assessment of the activities of the Prime Minister? Many people in Tallinn and Raplamaa have already received the first batch of letters by direct mail. The envelope sent to them contains five pages of a text criticising national broadcasting, which mentions a number of radio and television programmes, and it also contains the agreement with the thesis, which must be returned to this foundation, signed. The foundation also asks for money to support the campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U80	Thank you. Well, I would say that, but this is civil society, we all support civil society. Varro Vooglais represents civil society, with true civil society, a true non-governal or non-governmental organisation, unlike most of those who receive some money from the national purse, but also call themselves civil society. So Varro Vooglaiu's initiative is a pure citizens' initiative, and if you do not agree with it, you do not agree with how democracy works. As an additional answer, I'm going to read a quote. Its author is Urmas Loit, a journalistic lecturer at the University of Tartu who has said this: 'I would also treat the speeches of politicians in relation to the press, in particular, as a media critical discussion over quality, even those presented by the political members of the Broadcasting Council on the ERR. While views are often embellished and do not favour debate, speakers do not use national coercive tools to realize their attitudes or punishments. However, the freedom to express a position on the press should be open to everyone, including politicians. " So you see, experts think that politicians have every right to criticise the media and that this is not harassment of media freedom or muzzle the media. Once again, Varro Vooglaid acts as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia who is guaranteed the right to behave like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U81	Thank you. Urmas Kruus now has the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mart Helme, In your previous reply, you did try to make it look like nothing connects you to this foundation, that it is such a free and independent organisation that you have absolutely nothing to do with it. Well, that's hard to believe. But since the members of your party have been, and you have also been, very critical of the Estonian Public Broadcasting in particular, I can only read one thing: everything is very correct in Tallinn Television, everything has been happening very correctly for years, and it has been extremely impartial and transparent in the way you are participating in the programme, including yourself. Or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U83	I regret to admit that you have really misunderstood something. I am the same guest as I am in the ERR programmes on Tallinn TV. I have no privileges there, I have no financial, intellectual or institutional involvement there. Tallinn TV has invited me to visit. Lately, he rarely invites me because the programme format we participated in for years has ended. The way in which the impartiality or partiality of one or another media is assessed is probably dependent on the attitude of the viewer, I do not judge anyone here. But if you ask me about my connection with Varro Vooglaiu, I say that I respect Varro Vooglaat, Markus Järvi and all the family and tradition of the Foundation for the protection of activists. They have very much influenced our political discourse, our political discussions, they have brought here a completely different way of thinking, rather different subjects than those that we are allowed to use within the framework of so-called European values. They've broken the taboos, moved the boundaries. This is an extremely grateful action if we want a democratic society with a free debate to be preserved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U84	Thank you! I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U85	Next is the question by the Minister of the Interior Mart Helmele on Heljo Pikhof. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U86	Thank you. Good for Mart Helme Prime Minister's duties! Honest elections are one of the fundamental principles of democracy. Today, there is a coalition in power, which one party has said through the mouth of its leaders that e-elections are a total disgrace, the credibility of e-elections is non-existent, and it is essentially a lotto, but also that one of the reasons why Kuusik was badly attacked was his desire to open e-elections to the sticks. In the last elections, 43.7% of the votes were cast electronically. Are you suggesting that the government in office has come to power with false votes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U87	I would like to state something very simple and understandable. I would like to state that, at the moment, we cannot see the e-election process from the beginning to the end as transparent and verifiable. We also know that e-voices have already been destroyed by now, just as they were almost immediately destroyed after the previous elections, very quickly, so that they cannot be archived or controlled in the distant future. We think that this situation is not normal, and we think that, in order to dispel such doubts in society, it is necessary to open up the e-election system, disassemble it and make it clear whether our doubts are unfounded or whether there are grounds for such doubts. If there are any errors, any forms of abuse, they must be eliminated. In that case, we have nothing against e-elections as such continuing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U88	Thank you. Specific question, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U89	During the last few weeks, the Estonian public was able to contribute to finding a new Minister for Foreign Trade and Information Technology. However, there are positions that are even more difficult to fill. What about your cryptographs who can control the system and dispel your fears about the security of the e-vote system? I'm also asking if there are any paper slips left.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U90	I'm sorry! I didn't hear the last sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U91	'Are there any paper slips left? " was the last sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U92	I don't know how long they'll be stored, but we know they can be counted over and over again. There's nothing funny about this. If you think I'm doing stand-up show, it's a big mistake, I'm not doing stand-up show. If I wanted to do this, I'd do a lot funnier. I'm a talented person, and I can make a good joke. I can tell you anecdotes, too, we have another three-quarters of an hour, if you want, but I think we'll just limit ourselves to questions and answers. As far as the paper notes are concerned, we know that in the previous Riigikogu, the Riigikogu, Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubits, won with one vote as a result of the reading of the paper notes. If those voices couldn't have been counted, Sven Sester would have been here in his place. In the case of e-elections, there is no such cross-reading check procedure. That is precisely what we are criticising and what we want to eliminate. I do not see anything illegal here; I do not see anything here that would in any way damage the image of Estonia's e-governance. However, I would like to say something very fundamental in this context. In the short time I have been in office, I have also dealt with all those procurements in the IT field and their financing issues, and I have also talked to other members of the government on this issue. We have come to understand very clearly that Estonia's e-state has reached a point where we need to start preparing a new tiger jump, because otherwise we will discover ourselves at one point from a morally and physically outdated e-state. That, of course, is not what we want. So let's get the safety belts on, we need another Tigger jump. But it takes a lot more money than the first Tiger Jump. Finding this money is, of course, a headache again, but it is absolutely necessary if we are to maintain our position in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U93	Thank you. It's about Urmas Kruus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mart Helme, Certainly, one expression of the fundamental principle of democracy is also the hall in which the elected delegates of the people carry out the representation of the people and carry out very important decisions. At the first session of the new formation, we noticed that the new Member of Parliament, Reuben Kaalep, showed very clearly the conflicting hand mark, which is very often understood as a sign of the white race's supremacy all over the world. When members of the government took office, even two ministers used the same sign. Yesterday we were visited by a highly controversial politician from Europe, Le Pen, whose connection to Russianism is very obvious and understandable in his country, but it turns out that you do not understand it here in Estonia. Reuben Kaalep made a self with him yesterday, showing the same hand mark, and now it has become clear that when Le Pen returned to his homeland, he was asked if he had understood what he was demonstrating. After he was asked, he asked me to clean up the picture. Do you at least now understand and understand how society can be divided and disturbed by the use of such signs in this place, where there are people chosen by the people together? Do you admit that it crossed the line and that was a very bad joke? I really hope you saw a movie about a mosque shooter on Monday and thought about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U95	Thank you. I don't understand, I don't admit, I don't apologize, I don't let the liberals tell me what to do and what not to do. This is your interpretation of the OK mark that has been in use for decades; this is your perverted interpretation of the OK mark that has been in use for decades. I won't admit it, I won't be dictated, I won't be censored. Forget it! Okay?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U96	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U97	Let us go to the next question posed by the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, Yoko Alender. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U98	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good Mart Helme as Prime Minister! It is a matter of close-up violence; it is also a matter of your administration as Minister of the Interior. As a result of the alleged actions of one of your party's candidate ministers, this topic once again came to the public in Estonia very painfully. The fact that these things come out in the open is very important and every word that is said in this process, especially by members of the government, is crucial. This has also been confirmed by specialists working in your administration. I think it would have been very important for them, too, to hear those words from you, the condemnation that any violence, including intimacy, is completely unacceptable. We haven't heard that from you as Minister of the Interior. Today you're in the Prime Minister's office. I think that perhaps most of all this condemnation needs to be heard by women who have not yet found support, who have not yet found the strength to come to someone with their concerns and talk. Are you condemning close-relationship violence unambiguously and clearly today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U99	I'm sorry, I've always condemned it. It is self-evident that intimacy violence, as well as other violence, cannot be treated differently from the point of view of condemnation alone. As far as we are concerned about whether we are trying to help those who suffer both close relationships and other forms of violence, yes. Last year, we gave EUR 100000 of our roofing money to support women's asylums in order to compensate for what an earlier government had taken from them. So we have shown by our actions that we are fighting close-relationship violence and trying to help its victims.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U100	Thank you. Specific question, Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U101	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Good Mart Helme! When you answered one of the previous questions, you spoke about your warm ties with Varro Vooglaiu and his leading foundation and their worldview. The representative of this foundation has said, and you yourself have regrettably mentioned, that this issue, which was in the air, can be treated as a family matter. Do you continue to believe that violence in a relationship is a family matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U102	I don't remember saying anything like that, but basically, it's a family thing. The question is that it cannot be tolerated as a family matter either. Of course, it's a family matter, but at one point, a family thing has to become such a thing that it's also a social thing. If you're asking if the Interior Department is dealing with this matter, yes, we only met the police chief a few days ago, including the subject. I completely fail to understand why they are always trying and why the Reform Party and the Socots are trying to incriminate us with some sort of toxic masculinity. As has already been quoted here, we are said to be unsatisfied men who need free brothels. Come on, two leading journalists are discussing the fact that EKRE men are unsatisfied and need free brothels! How far can it go? Isn't that a mockery? Isn't that unworthy behavior? Isn't that an unworthy accusation? Think about it! Then you're trying to tie us up with some sign of violence against women. Forget it! We love our wives, we love our daughters, we love our daughters-in-laws, we love them deeply, we respect them. Stop blaming us for this! Stop it!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U103	Thank you. The last question on this subject is Liina Kersnal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U104	Thank you. I'm gonna start by rejecting one false claim that you've repeatedly used. This year, the funding of women's shelters is the biggest ever, with women's shelters receiving one million for the first time. So the argument that somewhere the funding for women's asylums has been reduced is simply not true. Four years ago, women's asylum funding was EUR 500000. But that's not what I wanted to ask you about. At your first government press conference, you said that you think it's appalling and unacceptable that some kind of childguard gets involved in the family's affairs. Now you have been a minister longer, and I hope you have been briefed, which is the task of childguards, especially in cases where there is a suspicion of close relationship violence. My question is: have you been briefed on the tasks of childguards and on the trauma that children may experience in the event of intimacy violence?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U105	Thank you. I don't know what kind of name those institutions had that we gave 100,000 euros of the roof money to, maybe they were some kind of support centers, maybe I used the wrong expression, I can't say. In any case, the fact is that we have practically helped them, and it should still be some kind of Secondly, as far as the children were concerned, I lived for years in a house with a children's shelter in one wing. When these kids came, I saw what they had been through, how they suffered, how many of them got into a bad way. So it's all very, very clear to me. I cannot accept that children's guards appear at the door of an already frustrated family on a newspaper article that basically starts using psychoterrorists in order to extort a witness. At least that's what I've heard, and I can't accept it. Of course, it is essential for children to feel safe, to have psychological advice and to offer everything, because we know very well that we have too many broken families or relationships or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U106	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U107	Next, Sven Mikser will be able to put a question to the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U108	Thank you. Mr. Helme! Looking at your emotionally uplifted performance, I can assure you that some kind of toxic masculinity, or especially any masculinity, based on what we see, we certainly don't incriminate you, you can be calm, and if you're tired, you can rest. But what I would like to say to Urmas Kruus's question, or quite rightly to your answer, is that Marine Le Pen, your friend, still had the French Liberals write a comma for himself and removed this photo with a questionable handprint and explained that if he knew what it meant, he would certainly not have taken or exhibited such a photo. However, this does not undo the fact that the Marine Le Pen has made statements on several matters, which are directly contrary to the interests of Estonia's security. In this light, I would like a yes/no answer to the question whether Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and/or Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu have approached you before the visit of Marine Le Pen and asked or advised you and other EKRE ministers not to meet Marine Le Pen or have Jüri Ratas or Urmas Reinsalu done something like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U109	Thank you. No, no one has asked us such a request, it would be outrageous, and we would categorically reject that request. Nobody dictates to us who we meet in a free country. Marine Le Pen is not a criminal criminal who should be subjected to any obstacles to entry, as has been speculated in our press that he should not be allowed to enter Estonia at all. He is a European citizen who still has democratic rights and freedoms to some extent. So I really don't understand the whole thing. It's just incomprehensible. As far as this handmark and the removal of the picture are concerned, here we see how far the softness of Western Europe has already come. I hope that Estonia will never become such a soft state where people themselves, internally, are forbidding themselves any things. There is no need to impose censorship internally and start banning things that are completely self-evident. This handmark is not a sign of the white race's supremacy, it's a OK mark. But if you want to indirectly incriminate some racist motives for us again, I'll tell you something. I say to you that if Estonians were black in skin color, I would fight for their rights, sovereignty and nationhood as passionately as Estonians, who are not yet black but are still white.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U110	Thank you. A more specific question, Sven Mikser.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U111	Perhaps, Mr Helme, you should refrain from further explaining the ideas, views and gestures that you yourself have expressed or used by your colleagues on these sensitive issues, because most of the time these explanations make matters worse. But why did I ask you about the recommendations of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs? The reason is that several of your coalition associates have expressed their thoughts about your friend's visit. For example, a member of the Fatherland Party has written in his blog post: 'But neither are we going to change by praising EKRE's tricks and tricks, or even shyly shut up about them. In particular, however, we do not intend to remain silent if the words and actions of the EKRE can pose a potential threat to our security and sovereignty be forgotten! ' In this light, since your coalition partners have not addressed you directly, nor have they made recommendations or requests not to meet, I ask you whether the foreign policy line of the government is united, and your meeting with Marine Le Pen and other EKRE ministers is fully in line with this government's common foreign policy line.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U112	Yes, it is perfectly in line with the foreign policy line of the government, because we are living in a free Europe where freedom of thought, political decisions, political convictions and party preferences are at first. It has not yet been taken away from any of the citizens of the European state and therefore, as Estonian citizens, we have the freedom to meet our partial thinker, who is a French citizen. I can't, once again, understand this panic (how am I going to say this more politely?) the debate (all right, let's say that) about the damage to Estonia's security. What is the damage to Estonia's security? Have we sunk NATO? Have we sunk the European Union? Have we sent the Allied Forces out of Estonia? What's that about? Nothing. On the contrary. The fact that the people of a couple of political parties in this Chamber are using their ties to defy their own state and one of the coalition parties in foreign media is damaging Estonia's security and Estonia's reputation. Not that our party belongs to the government. This does not harm Estonia's security, nor does it harm Estonia's reputation. The reputation of Estonia is damaged by the inability of losers to accept loss.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U113	Thank you. The chance to ask is on Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U114	Thank you. Mr. Helme! I don't call Le Pen a criminal, either, but I'd say your attitude to the subject is criminal. You are upping and supporting a person who wants to make NATO a police force of some kind, who does not give priority to Article 5, and to whom Jaak Madison and others praise each time he says we have other priorities, and his priority is, in fact, breaking allies in different forms. But since you do not know the difference between internal and external policies, I will continue to ask about internal security. It's your profession, it's all a security issue, Le Pen's not directly concerned, but you are. I will read a quote: 'I can give a concrete example of life directly. The daily problem is family violence, on which the prosecutor's office has taken a position, which in turn has been communicated to the police to avoid proceeding. There are different justifications: whether it is said that there is no desire to invade family life, or whether it is argued that it is often the women who have suffered, usually, who want to put an end to the proceedings later. At the same time, violence is based on the assumption that there must be grounds for believing that the threater will carry out his threat, whether he has done so in the past or has already taken action to do so. ' This talk, which is completely contrary to the party line and to your repeated speeches today, was spoken by your party's new minister, Kert Kingo, here a few months ago. It has to be assumed that domestic violence is a reality, and from this point of view, both witnesses and potential victims, even if they do not want to talk openly about it. If you don't want to talk about other salmon, how do you explain the salmon?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U115	Thank you. I do not know how many times I have to say that please do not incriminate us with any position in support of domestic violence. It's not there. Well, Kert Kingo is a lawyer and makes a very good distinction between the propaganda you're doing in this Chamber right now and the reality that's based on facts. It is quite clear that no one can be condemned until there is factual proof, and factual proof, when it comes to trial, requires evidence. That's the point. Otherwise, we could start convicting everyone about something. Nothing likes you, we'll convict you. You're wearing the wrong jacket. You're guilty of wearing the wrong jacket. There is no need to change every position, often out of context, into an immediate political attack, an accusation, an aziotization. I understand it's kind of inevitable in this hall, but I think we should keep a stop. No one has supported family violence with this speech, but on the contrary, it has been said how difficult it is to prove it and how difficult and cancerous it is to solve the problem. If you now use the deductive method, you will understand this quote exactly that way, but not that it is somehow a position that supports and endorses domestic violence. It certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U116	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U117	Let us go to the next question to be asked by Maris Lauri, Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U118	Thank you. I still have a question for Mr Helme, who is in charge of the Prime Minister. You have talked a lot about what is a deep state, but people, including my constituents, are asking me what this is. I haven't quite figured it out. Luckily, you answered one earlier question here, the picture became a little clearer, but only in some ways. I, and many others, still have the impression that you believe that this deep state exists in Estonia as well. As we know, there are no special services in Estonia; we have security agencies. Is your definition incorrect, or does this apply differently to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U119	Thank you. That is a very good question and I will give an even better answer to that question. The answer is that we are now drawing a parallel with e-elections. We want to find out whether a deep state exists or does not exist in Estonia. To this end, we want to strengthen the control of security authorities in the Riigikogu, which is why I also want to find out exactly what they are doing in my meetings and negotiations with our heads of security authorities. I am also able to clarify the picture in the budget setting now, because if we are going to get money from us, we have to tell you what the money is for. In the course of this activity, we will find out, as in the case of e-elections, whether they are safe or not secure, whether they are a deep state or not a deep state. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U120	Thank you. Specific question, Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U121	Thank you. I understand from your answer that you are drawing an equal mark between the special services and the security services. Okay, okay. I have now understood from the answer that you are not quite sure whether Estonia is a deep state or not. In the past, you have spoken in a very specific way, and also very many of your party associates have spoken in a specific way that there is a deep state. If there is a deep state, someone will probably lead this deep state. As we know, the management of the security authorities is determined in Estonia by a decree of the Government of the Republic; these institutions themselves are constituted by the laws of the Constitution; the Riigikogu is part of this control. I have a question: who do you think is running this deep country?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U122	Yes, I answered the previous question that we want to find out whether it exists or does not exist and, if it does, how it is used. When we find out that it is not, we will be very pleased. If we can figure out that it is, we have to put a stop to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U123	Thank you. Last question on this subject, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U124	Thank you. I have to admit, you didn't answer my last question about Kert Kingo's quote. Kert Kingo was just about to defend the victims of violence or alleged victims, and what he said was exactly contrary to what you said when you attacked the Witnesses and everyone who talked about the violence, and you justified one person because he was a suitable party member for you. But now on the subject of the deep state. On the other hand, Kert Kingo came here in the fall to talk about the deep state. You asked him ex-ju- questions, he said yes, undoubtedly. These elements of the deep state that quickly come to my mind were primarily the prosecutor's office, the press, the police. Kert Kingo said nicely that yes, indeed, exactly as you ask. You will find interesting quotes about infiltrated traitors in different structures and they have not been such soft and nervous answers as today, they have still been manly, the best style of EKRE: there are traitors everywhere. You've been on duty for a long time now. How long do you suffer these traitors, and what have you identified? You have appointed Elmar Vaher and you have also appointed the Attorney General in your speeches. Now, how far away are you with your exposure, when are we gonna find out about these results?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U125	That's what I can't predict to you what the future will bring. And I'm not nervous at all and I'm not at all insecure about my answers. I have said twice what my position as Minister for the Interior is now on this issue, and the work with these institutions to find out what they are doing and what they are not doing is going on. The results will be made public at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U126	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U127	Next, Aivar Sõerd has a question for the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, This is the subject of excise policy that we addressed in previous points and, to some extent, we have opened up this issue here today. I have to admit that I am a little surprised by the previous answers, because I have realised that several parties still have an interest in excluding border trade and one measure could be excise. In this draft, which we submitted to the proceedings on 2 May and on which the government has not yet adopted a position within two weeks, we are proposing excise duty cuts as a measure to control border trade. Secondly, we offer the solution that the difference between rates and Latvian rates should not be very large, the difference should be such that the economic interest in going there is lost. Thirdly, in proposing these rates, we used KPMG's analysis. The Minister of Finance has said that despite the opposition's initiation of this draft, it deserves to be supported. You said today that it's still not exactly what it needs to be. Let me get this straight. You, as Minister of the Interior, are not going to approve this bill? If you don't approve, will you explain what's wrong with it? You also discussed the issue of excise duty in the Cabinet yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U129	Thank you. Yes, we have discussed, but we have not yet reached a final agreement. As long as we have not reached a final agreement between ourselves, neither will we coordinate your draft nor will we make a final decision. But the time when it all comes down to it is to touch it. So be patient!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U130	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U131	Out of interest in the matter and due to yesterday's developments, I'm still going to clarify my question a little bit. Indeed, as we can read in today's newspaper Eesti Päevaleht, the Minister of Economic Affairs said yesterday that he very much wants to see the calculations made by the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance put his calculations on the table at the meeting of the Cabinet yesterday. But as I understand the information given to the media, you still did not reach an agreement. What was in the minister's calculations that didn't give you the chance to reach an agreement? Tell me a little bit about this debate yesterday and why you didn't reach an agreement yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U132	I imagine that the information on the Estonian Päevaleht was somewhat outdated, perhaps a comment had been made before these numbers were put on the table. Finally, no agreement has been reached on the extent to which the excise duty on lean alcohol should be reduced, the extent to which excise duty on spirits should be reduced and the difference between these two excise duties. This is yet to be agreed once and for all, and that is why we cannot say at the moment that we have made a deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U133	Thank you. The next question on the same subject can be asked by Mrs Sikkut. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U134	Thank you, good manager. Good Mart Helme! In fact, when replying to Urmas Kruus on the subject of excise duty, your response reflected the possibility of an extraordinary increase in pension due to the increase in alcohol duty. I have a feeling that just as you don't attach importance to words, so maybe you don't give importance to numbers. Can you imagine how much excise duty will have to increase in order, for example, to allow an extraordinary pension rise of EUR 10? That's one side of the question. But Aivar Sõerd has already expressed the surprise that your answers reflect that you really do not understand the questions about the work of childguards, the nature of close relationship violence, the role of the press, the importance of the country's foreign policy course or the credibility of e-elections, just as much as you do about what is appropriate or not in one role. Look here, for example! This right here is a long-peeter, it's between a forefinger and a naming match. But the globalist, liberal Western world you referred to has given this gesture a different meaning. Really, my kids don't know what that means. For them, long-peeter may be a long-peeter, we can't count anything else out of it, but making such a gesture towards a member of the government would be extremely rude on my part. If I don't make this gesture, it's not self-censorship, it's basic courtesy, it's respect for agreed rules and meanings. Meanings can change over time. I have a feeling you don't understand, and that's very sorry. I hope that you will want to play your role better in the future and also provide more meaningful answers to our questions. Is this expectation justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U135	In my opinion, I have given completely substantive answers here. Of course, if there's anything you don't understand, it's a shame. As for the fact that some people have agreed on some sort of sign, I am not one of the people who have agreed to it, and I am not following this agreement. If the Liberals have agreed that some kind of hand movement means something, then well, I'm not a liberal, I don't think that's what it means. I think it means a good mood. We have agreed on the Conservative side that this is a sign of good cheer. If you've agreed on something else, it's just a conflict between two worldviews, and it's that simple. On the contrary, as far as I am not qualified to be a minister, I am too fit to be a minister, because I do things differently, I do not tick just as a minister. We saw in a number of previous governments that people just ticked as ministers: very nice, get in the car, drive me, come to a meeting, read the officials' material. Yeah, I admit, I haven't fully learned all the matters in my area of administration or possession in two weeks, but I'm working on it day after day, in long hours. As for the fact that I do not understand Estonian foreign policy, I am sorry, I am one of the few people in Estonia who understand foreign policy at all, one of the very few people who understand geopolitics, one of the very few people who have diplomatic experience and who know that the world is no longer what it was 10 years ago, 20 years ago or 50 years ago. Most of the people in this hall live in some kind of world the day before yesterday. This world no longer exists. Wake up, people, wake up! This is another world. You don't understand. I have to wake you up with shock therapy. Shock therapy is one of our party's ways of getting Estonia out of stagnation. I do it every day, right here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U136	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U137	The next question is for Jaak Madison, Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U138	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of the Interior! This subject, which I am asking about, has been discussed earlier in this Question Time. In recent years, it has occurred that I have been approached by persons who were born in the 1920s and 1930s in Petseri County, Setumaa, in areas that were then controlled by the Republic of Estonia. Their main concern is that when they go to exchange a document, to receive a new passport from the Republic of Estonia, Russia is the place where they are born, although we know that these areas are illegally annexed to Russia and that the place of birth of these people is, after all, the Republic of Estonia. As long as these areas have not been handed over voluntarily to Russia, which we are trying to avoid at all costs, Estonia, not Russia, should still be the place of birth. During the previous government, it was a policy that, in any case, the place of birth is marked as the country that controls certain areas. Will the work plan of the Ministry of the Interior get this question so that in future passports the place of birth of the Republic of Estonia will be marked as the place of birth, as these persons were born in Estonia, in the areas belonging to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U139	The current practice is based on the decree of the Government of the Republic of Estonia of 8 August 2015, which has based the determination of the place of birth on the baseline between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation. We know very well that this is not correct from the point of view of the continuity of the Estonian state. That's how to say, bureaucraticly making your life easy. This should be raised. Since it has been a practice since 2005 to consider the place of birth that this territory is under the control of another country, this is why the Russian Federation is designated as the place of birth of persons born on the territory of the Republic of Estonia, on the other side of the reference line. It's not correct. The Republic of Estonia should be mentioned as the place of birth, perhaps in brackets or as an addition, that it is currently under the control of the Russian Federation. This would be correct in terms of the legal continuity of our country. But at the moment, it is not on the agenda of the Government of the Republic to make such restructurings. This requires a new legal initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U140	Thank you. Specific question, Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U141	Thank you very much. I will continue with a similar issue that ties in with our legal continuity and the treatment of our citizens according to their proper place of birth. In recent times, Estonia's foreign policy and foreign policy have been raised. As we know, the current government has also stressed that Estonia's foreign policy course is oriented towards good alliances with NATO and the United States, as well as our neighbours Poland, Latvia, Lithuania and Finland. As your deputy Prime Minister at this Question Time, how do you feel about the fact that very influential Estonian politicians have repeatedly changed direction in words? In fact, we are talking about good relations with the United States, but only in 2016 was one candidate who, unfortunately, became president of a few people but who continues to work well with NATO and also with the Republic of Estonia. For example, while Russia carried out a military attack against Georgia in 2008 and occupied areas, two or three years later, the foreign minister, Urmas Paet, justified the proposal to introduce a visa-free regime between Russia and the European Union, which, as stated by the President of Latvia in December 2010, was decided at European Union level, where Estonia and Latvia had nothing to say. How do you feel about one day talking about one day and another? As Deputy Prime Minister, do you see such activities as a threat to Estonia's security and foreign policy, which could weaken our relations with very important allies?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U142	Thank you. Here we see what we have criticised both when we are in opposition and now: this is the invertebrateness of our foreign policy, that is the principle that from where the wind, from there the mind. When the German Heads of State say that we are now going to make a visa waiver with Russia, we are calling out immediately that, yes, hurrah, we are going to make a visa waiver. If it says no, now we're imposing sanctions, we're about to scream, yes, hurrah, now we're imposing sanctions. That is what we are criticising. An independent foreign policy view of the world is what we represent and what our opponents criticise when they talk about the Marine Le Pen. We'll see what you're gonna say about Marine Le Pen when he's elected President of France. Then you're going to have a different story, you're going to have a different face, just like you did with Donald Trump. This is the criticism of invertebrate that we have always represented. We've been trying to show the spine all along, and they're trying to break it. After all, today's questions in this Chamber also demonstrate one thing very clearly: EKRE, acknowledge unconditional capitulation, do not speak frankly, do not represent your views, capitulate and come across our rhetoric, do and speak exactly what we, which have been approved and which must not be shown a certain hand sign! But we say we show the OK sign. I'm not going to provoke you with this right now, but I'm still going to show you this OK sign, because we're not going to be dictated by any ideological dogmas or restrictions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U143	Thank you. There are no more questions on this issue, I will stop addressing this issue. Now the question came up, it didn't appear on the screen before. We still have a few minutes, please ask as soon as possible, otherwise we'll just run out of time. Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U144	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you very much, Mr. Mart Helme, for answering here today. You were invited here as acting Prime Minister and as Minister of the Interior and there were questions to answer. Unfortunately, your answers did not reflect one or the other role. I believe that you answered as Mart Helme at least I have understood it this way, trying to prove that all the thoughts that are in your mind are healthy, that all the thoughts you express are correct. All of this may be very important and appropriate for one person to discuss in the middle of your family, but today you have been here on the duty of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior and have answered the questions. I find it inappropriate to compare myself to Donald Trump. If you've heard any of his calls, you know these differences are enormous.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U145	Thank you. Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U146	I very much hope that, in future, your actions in governing the state, as well as answers, will be borne by responsibility, not by self-centeredness.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U147	Thank you. Look, there's nothing to do, if you're an alpha male and a colorful personality, then you're both the Minister of the Interior and the acting Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U148	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. We will not be able to deal with any more questions due to the lack of time. But I will put it to you, honourable members of the opposition: you will all see that we have three members of the government here, three ministers, please do not waste the working hours of ministers by simply letting them sit here, so that their other duties will not be fulfilled. Thank you all for your participation. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-15_U149	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the 6th working week session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. It is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. There is no request for referral of drafts or enquiries. Let's go to the messages. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be an establishment meeting in this Chamber of the Estonian-Pinish parliamentary group, convened by Oudekki Loone. The small countries are countries with fewer than 200,000 inhabitants, they are written here for my comment. That's for everyone to know. Incoming check, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. As there are no points on today's agenda, the session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 2.02 p.m.
