ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! It is certainly no secret in Estonian society that the shortage of labour has affected every sector. This actually means that in order for the Estonian economy to grow and we can maintain our social welfare system in the future, we need work hands like air. But to me personally, and also to my good 15 colleagues from the Reform Party Group, it seems that the government has not understood this. This is also about agriculture. There is a common understanding that in agriculture, working hands may be needed only seasonally, but this is not the case for a long time. This is said by both statistical numbers and various experts and employers. We were therefore surprised by the decree sent to the Minister for the Interior on 13 September, including on the allocation of the immigration limit. And, my goodness, there's no talk of agriculture there! There's a feeling that the members of the government are not familiar. That is why we want to find out from Mart Järvik, the current Minister for Rural Affairs, how he stood up for his sector and how he defended the possibility of involving foreign labour in the agricultural sector and in the rural economy at all, and not only seasonally, but also to send a year's work around here, because this sector needs it. Let's hope we get reasonable answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U3	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to transfer drafts and enquiries. I have accepted one inquiry, and the Riigikogu Board processes it in accordance with all laws. Now the announcements, ladies and gentlemen. Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in this Chamber to set up a chess support group. The caller is Andrei Korobeinik. Checking for presence. 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U4	Let's go to today's agenda! The first item is the first reading of the bill submitted by Mart Laari, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, on the " Appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank." Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, please! For members of the Riigikogu, every member of the Riigikogu can ask a question during the proceedings. Representatives of the political groups will be able to participate in the negotiations and the final vote will be secret. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 17 September, the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Perhaps as an introduction, according to Article 8 (1) of the Eesti Pank Act, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank will present a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. To date, Mart Laar, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, has presented a proposal to the Riigikogu to appoint Enn Eesmaa, Kaie Keremi, Enn Listra, Rein Minka, Ivar Padari, Jaanus Tamkivi and Urmas Varblas as members of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, which consists of a Chairman and seven members. The members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank are appointed by the Riigikogu by decision on the proposal of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. According to § 8 of the Eesti Pank Act, members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank must be Estonian citizens and have higher education. Members may not include members of the Government of the Republic or employees of Eesti Pank. A member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank shall not work for any management company, investment fund, investment firm, credit institution, insurance undertaking or any other subject subject subject to financial supervision or be part of their management bodies. All the persons mentioned above, who are currently candidates for the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, meet the requirements laid down in § 8 of the Eesti Pank Act. All candidates have agreed to apply and successfully passed a security check on the basis of § 112 of the Eesti Pank Act or, after their post, they are already entitled to state secrets at the level required by § 112 of the Eesti Pank Act. In the committee we heard the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank Mart Laari. There were many heated questions and comments. Unfortunately, the Eesti Pank Act currently does not write to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board when he or she has to submit the names of the members of the Supervisory Board and whether or not he or she has to discuss the list with anyone. The letter simply states that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank will present candidates. The decision must then be decided by a single reading in the Riigikogu's plenary and the Council will be elected if there are more votes in favour than against. Unfortunately, the law does not include what happens when the composition of the Riigikogu does not support the proposal of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Doing this law in the last century did not anticipate the situation that has now arisen. So that's the list. To clarify that when the press ran through that the Finance Committee supported this list and sent it to the large hall, the Riigikogu Finance Committee actually proposed that this draft be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu's meeting today. We did not decide whether or not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U6	Thank you. You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U7	Thank you. Mart Laar said he'd be there today, but then there was a reason not to come. On the committee he spoke mainly of folklore and fairy tales. And now I have to ask you about them. The big story was that his choice guarantees the political independence of the bank. There was no evidence of any danger. But tell me, do you share this view that if one politician, or Mart Laar alone, chooses the Council without consulting Parliament at all, then this is a guarantee of independence. That's exactly what Mart tried to prove to us. Do you share this view? You're his deputy right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U8	Thank you, Jürgen, for a very good question. On the first remark, I would just say that we had agreed in the committee that Mart Laar would be able to perform here today, but unfortunately the Riigikogu regulation is the second: it is not possible to give this opportunity, even if he wanted to. It may be possible to present to all seven candidates for the Council, but not to the detriment of the person who submits the list. Now for two. Jürgen, we both know, having read this draft, which is practically three lines, that it is very clear that the Chairman of the Council will present the composition to the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu either supports it or does not support it. Is good practice the way it's been done this time? So far, good practice has been different. But I must stress that, simply by law, the Chairman of the Council has these rights. So there's no way we can say he's done anything wrong. I think that we can say one thing right now that has definitely been done wrong. The mandate of the current Council was, in fact, due to expire as early as February. In history, as far as I know, it has never been that new members of the Council have not been presented in time. We also asked the Commission about this, and Mart Laar replied that he did not want to present the members of the Council during the previous term, waited for the new composition and then presented it. Unfortunately, Jürgen, you can only ask one question, now you have to ask someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U9	Thank you. A procedural question, Jürgen Ligi? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U10	Thank you, good manager. Please interpret the Rules of Procedure. I asked you a very clear question, and the waitress didn't answer my question at all. Is that in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U11	Yes, it is. Everyone asks according to their abilities, and everyone answers according to their abilities. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U12	The procedural question: was that really a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U13	You can look it up in the verbatim. Let's get on with the questions. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U14	Thank you. I'm going to be an EKRE lawyer, to my own surprise. But I am surprised at the composition of this proposed Council that there is a representative of all political parties there, there are even two surprises from the Fatherland! But there's no one in the EKRE. I was wondering if you might know, maybe there was a discussion at the committee about what it was coming from. I know that Mart Laar said a year ago about Mart Helme that he was not only a useful idiot, but also a pathological liar. My question is whether Mart Laar has extended this assessment to the whole EKRE or what it... [[A. Chef's gonna answer.]] I haven't finished the question, but I realized you stopped listening. So, what's the reason for Mart Laar's choice now? Has he extended the assessment he gave Mart Helme to the entire EKRE and finds that there is no one to be taken from there who could be proposed as a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank? Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U15	Thank you. Of course, you could tell me who these two people from the Fatherland are. One's the chairman, but who's the other? But we really had this question in the committee, and Mart Laar, if I remember correctly, replied that it was up to the chairman of the Council to decide who he would elect for his council. All seven people. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U16	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You stated in your speech that this is the law, but good practice has been violated. Can it be concluded that there is a need to amend the law so that there can be no such violation? Or do you think it is normal that Parliament has no right to be involved here at all? You have referred to the fact that we have a vote ahead, but this is the second stage in the process of making a possible contribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U18	Thank you, Urmas, for a very good question. I can tell you that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has discussed this issue and we will certainly consider the possibility of amending the law of Eesti Pank after today's vote. Several proposals have been made to avoid such a situation that we will discuss the members of the Council six months after the deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U19	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U20	Thank you. Good waitress! I have a question for you about Mart Laar's behavior. Has the Honorary Chairman of your party decided to put Parliament in the role of rubber seal? Does he think that Parliament is a rubber stamp, that he chooses the people who should be in the Council, and we just have to nod a nook-nook? Maybe something's gone wrong somewhere. And perhaps the second quick question also goes to this: in your personal opinion, should the Chairman of the Supervisory Board at least have consulted the political groups in Parliament and discussed who could be a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U21	Thank you for another very good question. I'll start from the back, then maybe the first question doesn't have to be answered. Yes, I am of the opinion that, according to good practice, the Chairman of the Council could have been able to communicate with all the political parties represented in the Riigikogu. In that case, it would have been certain that the draft he proposed would pass through the Riigikogu in a witty way. You're gonna have to ask Mardi your first question. I can't answer why he did it. It is good practice that political parties are being discussed. And I can tell you that the Fatherland party has also not been consulted on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U22	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! My question is whether the mandate of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank applies at all. In my opinion, the mandate of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank does not apply, and it is completely incomprehensible to me that, although we consider Eesti Pank to be very important, we have, in fact, been overlooking the fact that the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank does not actually exist for six months. Do you share my view that the mandate of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank does not apply? And what have you done before to avoid such a situation? In my opinion, this is a very unnatural and very bad precedent.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U24	Thank you, Thomas, for a good question. According to the law, the mandate is valid as long as the Riigikogu has not appointed new members of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U25	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U26	Thank you, good manager. And a good answer! My question is this: would it not be elementary today that, if someone proposes to appoint representatives of the political groups to the council, at least he consults the political groups he appoints there? Is it not the case that all the principles of open governance have been opposed, making this decision in the silence of the cabinet and really forcing the Riigikogu to become a rubber stamp, as Mr Pevkur has already said? Do you not think that this is an exceptionally bad practice and a violation of the principles of open governance?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U27	Thank you. I have to start with the fact that according to the law that applies today, he doesn't have to do it, but according to good practice, he could do it. In this Chamber, while I have been a member of the Riigikogu, there has been one more case when this good practice has been violated. This time the Riigikogu supported the proposal without having discussed it with political parties before. Today I don't know how you're doing. After a while, when the vote starts, it will be clear whether or not this practice, as you say very rightly, will continue in the Riigikogu. It is up to all members of the Riigikogu to decide. If you asked me for my opinion, I'd have at least been there to talk if I were Mard. Whether I would have agreed to a party candidate or not, at least I would have gone to sell my candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U28	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U29	Thank you. Good waitress! We have all realized that Mart Laar already considers Eesti Pank to be his property, and he also behaves like a manor who chooses the aide himself. But I understand from what you said that you have already discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs the possible amendment of the Eesti Pank Act. In the light of Mart Laar's actions, have you considered possible sanctions against the Chairman of the Council, who has clearly broken the rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U30	Thank you for a good question. If you have read the Law of Eesti Pank, I recommend that you read it if you have not read it, then you know that it says very clearly that there is only one way to recall the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. This has nothing to do with the members of the Riigikogu. It is not possible to submit a motion of censure or to withdraw it, although the Riigikogu has approved the Chairman of the Council on a proposal from the President.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U31	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U32	Good manager! Good waitress! I remember how much trouble Mart Laar got re-elected. It was embarrassing! And now this man is acting like a dictator who doesn't consult Parliament and says you're going and you're coming. I heard one of my colleagues asked about the fact that there had to be two members of this council in Isamaa. As the leader of the Fatherland, you tell me who is still there from the Fatherland! And is it true that only members of the Conservative People's Party are not in the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U33	Thank you, Peter, for a good question. I understand that at least one person in the Riigikogu knows who these two members are. I'm ashamed to admit I don't know who these two members are. I know one who is the chairman, but maybe one of the others is a member of our party, but then I have to apologize for not knowing. However, we must also shake the ashes on ourselves, Peter, that the Riigikogu has at some time passed a law that gives all these opportunities. It is logical that the law states by which time the members of the new council must be presented, how consultations are held and what happens if the list proposed by the Riigikogu is not supported. Unfortunately, these points are not in the law, and that is why the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not been on the agenda, but is just under discussion that this law will be amended. Such situations must not occur. It could also happen now that, as long as its mandate is in force, the Chairman of the Council will not propose a new Council and there is no way to prevent it from doing so on the basis of the law. The old council can work as long as the chairman wants.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U34	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U35	Thank you, manager. Good chairman of the committee! As I understand it, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank is not breaking the law. And if Parliament does not approve the candidates proposed by it, the ball will go back to the President of the Council and the situation will remain the same. How long can this situation last? How many times can he propose new candidates to Parliament? Perhaps it would be wise to start changing the law to put an end to this absurd situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U36	Thank you for a good question, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs. The law does not regulate what happens when the Riigikogu does not support the draft, nor when the Chairman of the Supervisory Board has to submit a new list, whether he has to submit it at all, or whether it is in the work of the Supervisory Board for exactly the duration of the term of office of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. In this sense, there is clearly a situation where the law of Eesti Pank must be opened and discussed not only in relation to the presentation of the members of the Supervisory Board, but also in relation to everything else. But I would like to stress once again that according to the current law, the Chairman of the Council has all the rights and powers; unfortunately, neither the time for the presentation of the members of the Supervisory Board nor the time for negotiation has been recorded there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I recall this debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs last week. When the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank explained this list, he certainly emphasised it; I am well aware that he considers it important that this composition be politically independent. But when I look at this list, there are people here who are pretty active in politics. That is the aspect that I found confusing in the Commission's debate. I guess you didn't ask about it yourself. You were disturbed by the fact that the chairman of the council came out so late on that list. But I ask: did the explanation of the chairman of the bank board make it convincing for you that the composition that we now have on this table is politically absolutely independent?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U38	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U39	Thank you, Aivar! We did ask you the same thing you just asked. I remember that for a candidate, a colleague of ours sitting in this Chamber, he was told that he was not a politician, he was just sitting in the Riigikogu. I think everyone who sits in this Chamber is politicians in a good way and is doing their job according to their hearts. This topic was very clearly in the debate. Perhaps, Aivar, Jürgen did not answer all these questions between his words, because Jürgen had many questions and he would now like to ask another question. Maybe someone from the party will help him present it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U40	Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U41	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. There has been a great deal of criticism in the Chamber today that Mart Laar has not consulted the political groups. I'm interested in the reason. Do you know why Mart Laar didn't do it? And maybe I'mUtrating, but I'm asking you, can the reason for not consulting be that his state of health doesn't allow it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U42	Thank you. Mart Laar, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, replied to the same question in the committee that he wanted to make an apolitical board. However, when we look at the candidates for the Council, I think that the very good politicians Ivari Padar and Enn Eesmaa, who sit here in this Chamber and do their work very well. Jaanus Tamkivi sat in this room in the previous room and Mart Laar has been a prime minister as well as a member of the Riigikogu. I see at least four active politicians on the list, two of whom are certainly active politicians today. There was also a question of why there was no EKRE. The answer to this was that the Council was wanted to be less political. So that is the kind of answers we received in the Commission. I can't convey them literally, but basically, that was the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U43	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U44	Thank you. Good waitress! You mentioned earlier that the President of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank said that he waited about seven months to appoint a new Supervisory Board because he wanted to wait for the new Riigikogu. However, he has not even consulted any political groups in the new composition of the Riigikogu. Does it not seem ironic, then, to explain why the composition of the council has not been presented to the Riigikogu for seven months? In fact, the Riigikogu has not been consulted. Where's the logic here? I don't understand that a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U45	Thank you for a good question. Just in case, I specify that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank presented the list in June, about a month-and-a-half after the government was approved. But either any political group or political party has been consulted, as far as I know, and one political party has allegedly been consulted. Although some members of the same party say they are not, I understand that the Secretary-General has been spoken to. Whether this candidate has been agreed or not, I don't know. Most in the Chamber say that they have not been spoken to by their party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U46	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Commission waitress, The question is hypothetical. Suppose this proposal today does not find Parliament's support. Is there, in theory, a situation where the Chairman of the Council does not propose new candidates? How long do you think such a situation could last, and what does the Commission think of such a theoretically completely possible situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U48	Thank you, Urve, for a good question. If the Riigikogu does not support the proposal of the Chairman of the Board of Eesti Pank today, then on 7 October, the first day of the next working week, this topic will be on the table in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. And it is certainly under discussion how to amend the law of Eesti Pank so that such a situation can no longer arise. Because there may indeed be a situation where no new list will be presented. It doesn't say we should do it anywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U49	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U50	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I remember, too, we were all here, or at least many of us were in fact in favour of Mart Laar becoming chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, precisely because he has favors in front of the Republic of Estonia, and it seemed appropriate. At the same time, he made a promise that he would withdraw from politics. However, this political game has now exploded around the Council, and that is not a good tone. My request to you is that I ask you more simply once more how things should work and how they did not go. Perhaps a future Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank will observe what is happening sitting in this hall or watching a video broadcast.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U51	Thank you for a good question. I have to repeat myself, I don't know how many times: we are doing the current Eesti Pank Act! Unfortunately, your penguin has gone away, he is one of the authors of this law, and unfortunately, two other authors have gone to the canal. At the time, in the last century, there was no indication that such a situation would arise. Unfortunately, during the previous term, for the first time, there was a case that the list had not been negotiated with Members, but then the proposal went through. Perhaps this time Mart thought that if one of the people succeeded, the Riigikogu would now support him in accordance with the law, too, he has been given the power to appoint members of the council and maybe this time the votes will come in favour. If you ask me, I think this is a violation of good practice. First, the fact that the list was not submitted in time. I think this is much more important than who the members of the Council are. Secondly, it would certainly be good practice that there could be consultations with the parties represented in the Riigikogu. For each draft, there are negotiations, we know in this Chamber, that if any draft legislation goes through, it will still be agreed with the parties so that it can find support in the Chamber. As I understand it, this support has not been negotiated. As chairman of the committee, I have to admit that I waited since spring when I became chairman of the committee for a phone to ring at some point and ask when we could get together to discuss the approval of the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Many of those sitting in this Chamber today were confident that their name would be presented, and they were surprised that their colleague's name was presented instead. However, those whose names have been given are not guilty of anything. They're all good, and it would be justified to have their candidacy run through this hall. Well, today's vote is everyone's conscience. Every member of the Riigikogu is free to vote, as provided for by the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U52	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The Riigikogu approves the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, confirms the members of the Supervisory Board he has appointed, but at the same time the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, approved by the Riigikogu, does not hesitate to seek the consent of the Riigikogu and its political groups to possible candidates. In the summer, he said he didn't care and he doesn't have to ask. Is it such a situation that we have appointed him, but we cannot replace him, but this removal is carried out according to the Statute of the European Central Bank? Is it still normal? Shouldn't there be a change in this too?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U54	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. You were a little wrong. The removal of the Governor of Eesti Pank is possible on the basis of the provisions of the Statute of the European Central Bank, but there is only one possibility of recalling the President of the Supervisory Board: if he has been sentenced. The Eesti Pank Act does not provide any further opportunities. There is one good Estonian saying: no good deed will go unpunished. And I can say that with all due clarity that twice the Riigikogu has approved the chairman of this council. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has acted on the basis of law, according to the possibilities of the Act. Whether such conduct is in harmony with good practice can always be discussed. It would be logical to believe that if the candidate for the third party that made the result of the Riigikogu elections is not on the list of members of the council, it is not good practice to follow. It would be very logical that if five political parties were represented in the Chamber, the members of all five parties could be on this list. Then there wouldn't be much debate. Whether or not a party likes a particular candidate is already a matter within the political party, the agreement between the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank and the political party should be needed, nothing more.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U55	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Good performer! I think we're gonna hit a stalemate tonight. Shouldn't the Commission have foreseen this and prevented the farce instead of bringing it to the big hall? We could have planned an early legislative amendment and started to resolve these matters the other way around. It would have looked much more beautiful and honest in the eyes of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U57	Thank you, dear former colleague and thank you, Mr Riho, for a good question. You've been in the Riigikogu for too little time. It is simply that members of the Riigikogu must behave in accordance with the law. The Commission has the opportunity either to support the proposal, not to support it or not to give an opinion, but all the drafts that come to the committee will have to arrive in this Chamber within eight working weeks, and so will the decision to appoint the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Should the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu have started to amend the law in September, after the Chairman of the Supervisory Board had already submitted the list? There was no reason. If today the Riigikogu does not support the draft, it is certainly a very important reason to start making amendments to the Eesti Pank Act on an accelerated basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U58	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, You have just quoted an Estonian proverb that no good deed will go unpunished. What exactly did you mean by that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U60	I meant that very ladies and gentlemen have pointed out on several occasions that twice the Riigikogu has, though different compositions, supported the candidacy of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank for his post. That's really nice and good. I have voted for him both times. Perhaps it would be logical that, if the Chairman has been elected by the Riigikogu and received the support of the members of the Riigikogu, he will rely on the Riigikogu in his activities and there is reason to hope that if he submits some drafts to the Riigikogu, I mean the draft appointment of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Bank that we are discussing today, he will first consult with the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, he has not done so, and that is why there are a lot of confusion and questions in this Chamber as to whether or not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U61	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now the representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to negotiate. Peeter Ernits on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U62	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought someone else was talking, but let it go. When I noted that there should be two members of the Council of the Fatherland, the good Aivar Kokk said that he did not know about the other one. I know that Mr. Minka is actually a member of the Fatherland. So two members of the Fatherland and no members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. But that's it. We have a problem with the President at all, and not only with the Governor of Eesti Pank, but also with the President of the Republic of Estonia. Both of them should actually be removed, but the law won't allow it. Remember what happened when we approved the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank for the new term of office? After all, the former member of the Fatherland, President Kaljulaid, came here and presented the honorary chairman of this party. And it worked out in great trouble, remember: 44 for and 34. I spoke on the floor at the time and also asked, quoting Hans H.Lukie, how can it be that you approve Mart Laari, the chairman of the bank's supervisory board, who does not understand anything about commercial banks and does not properly supervise the activities of the banks. That's one Hans H.Luig quote, that was his problem. The answer came as he came, and through trouble we got him back in the booth. And now we are facing the problem again: the man, who has become chairman of the council, has begun to act as a self-governance. I do not know whether it is Stalin's style or someone else's, that it is not considered necessary to consult Parliament and act, I do not know whether it is the holy spirit or my better will. And like I said, competence isn't the greatest. And indeed, in the summer, Mart Laar has said that the EKRE Group has not promised me anything and will not have to promise me anything. I have a good opportunity to say here on behalf of the EKRE Group that the EKRE Group will not allow its vote today either. It's a secret vote, but I'm going to say I'm definitely going to press the red button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U63	The political groups do not want to negotiate any more, and we can go to the final vote. Valdo Randpere, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U64	Yeah, that's right. We're about to go to a secret vote from the remote, but how do you secure a secret vote when we have cameras on this balcony who are busy trying to film how the EKRE members press the red button? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U65	Thank you. The electronic system allows us to vote secretly and you can hide with the palm of the other hand how you vote. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] So let us now go to the voting procedure, ladies and gentlemen. Bare Chef, is that a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U66	It's a procedure, isn't it? Just to clarify to the questions of Valdo Randpere and Peeter Ernitsa that Rein Minka has never belonged to any political party, not even to Fatherland.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U67	Thank you. But it wasn't a procedural question. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to the voting procedure. Is everything ready? We can go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of the Members of the Board of Eesti Pank' presented by Mart Laar, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Please take a stand and vote. 18 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 74 against and no abstentions. Bill 38 did not find any support.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U68	Let's move on to today's agenda. Second item: Overview of the 2018 report on the Civil Service. The rapporteur is Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! There is also now an opportunity to put a question to the rapporteur and only the representatives of the political groups can participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I have the honour to present you with another public service report, which gives an overview of the number of civil service staff, labour costs, recruitment and turnover and training activities in 2018. The longer report is available to all of you, and I will focus my presentation on some of the most important issues. In order to better understand the proportion of the public service, I would like to introduce an overview of the total number of public and government employees. There is often confusion here, and journalists, the public and various interest groups use these numbers very arbitrarily. The public sector is divided into general government and other public sectors. The general government, in turn, consists of three sub-sectors: central government, local government units and social security funds. Other public sector companies producing goods and services with state and local government participation, such as Eesti Energia and Tallinn Airport, as well as Eesti Pank. In 2018, the public sector as a whole worked full-time equivalents of 132000 employees, of which approximately 88% were employed in the general government sector and 12% in the other public sector. The public sector accounts for nearly one fifth of Estonia's employment in the 26- to 64-year-olds. The public service, in turn, represents one fifth of the total public sector staff. These are people working with the authorities of the state and local authorities. About 27,500 employees worked in the public service in 2018, of which just over 19000 were officials, i.e. those to whom the state and the local government have entrusted the exercise of public authority. The public service includes public authorities of the state and local government, such as ministries, agencies, inspections, urban and rural municipalities. Nearly 22000 people were employed by the national authorities and more than 5500 by local authorities. 36,4% of the public service was made up of special servants, with around 10,000 people in 2018. Special servants include, for example, police officers, rescue officers, prison officers and military personnel. The number of people of working age in Estonia is decreasing. It is therefore important, in recent years and in the future, to keep the number of employees in the general government in balance with that of the working age population. The strategic target is the 12% share of government employees, which we managed to keep last year: the percentage was 11.9. In 2018, the number of people working in the general government decreased by 0.4%, while the number of civil servants decreased by 720 people, or 2.5%. In the national authorities, the number of civil servants decreased by 612 persons, i.e. by 2.7%, and in local governments by 108 employees, i.e. by 1.9%. It was a year of major changes in the public service organisation last year. After all, the first phase of the administrative reform, i.e. the administrative-territorial reform, was completed. By means of mergers, 51 new local authorities, or about 2/3 of all municipalities today, were formed. In total, the number of municipalities fell from 213 to 79. As a result of the merger of local authorities, there are more resources to be allocated to the provision of high-quality services and self-governing tasks. In the past, there were situations where one employee offered services in several different fields, i.e. multi-disciplinary activities. After mergers, according to preliminary analysis, in each core area, the municipality has a specialist in the field of work, whether it be a lawyer or a child protection worker. It wasn't like that before. The number of staff decreased after the first phase of the administrative reform, but restructuring helped to improve the quality of service delivery. The changes have also led to an increase in the competence of officials. As of 1 January 2018, rural governments, or local central government offices, were abolished. This meant that several areas, many tasks were transferred to individual municipalities or jointly implemented by the county authorities, such as the organisation of public transport or the development of the county as a region. By creating new employment opportunities outside Tallinn, more than 40 public institutions, state-owned foundations and public institutions contributed to the restructuring. I would remind you that one of the priorities of the previous government's regional policy and government administration was the creation of state-paid jobs in the regions and the removal from Tallinn. New public services and posts were created in the counties. Most of these workers were district policemen, who then actually came along. In addition, hundreds of jobs were moved out of the capital, such as environmental officials, tax and customs officials, statisticians, IT specialists and some institutions as a whole. Such reorganisations have enabled people who had previously been forced to work in Tallinn to work at the country's workplaces in the regions. Now, more specifically, government employees, civil servants and their salaries. The average gross monthly wage in the general government last year was 1360 euros. By comparison, the average gross monthly wage in Estonia was 1310 euros. The increase in the average gross monthly wage of the general government was 3% higher than the increase in Estonia's average gross monthly wage. A little of the reasons. The general government wage increase was most affected by the increase in the salaries of teachers and cultural workers and by the increase in the wages of internal security workers, as they were given more money than other target groups. The average gross monthly wage of national authorities increased by 5.3%, including mostly in internal security institutions. In the Defence Forces, wages grew by 6.6%. The lowest wage rose in the constitutional institutions and the State Chancellery: this increase was 1.9%. In ministries, wages rose by 2.6%. In order to recruit a qualified workforce for public service, wages that do not fall behind the wage levels of competing labour market segments must continue to be guaranteed. In other words, the general wage increase cannot be defeated by the public sector. Officials had just over 19000 in 2018, with an average gross wage of EUR 1711 and an increase of 7.5% over the year. The wage of public officials increased by 6.9%, which has been similar to the overall wage growth in the wage market, i.e. 7.3%. The wage growth of officials from local authorities has been somewhat faster, it was 11%. The average salary of the public service is higher than the average wage in Estonia, as the structure of the work and educational requirements differ. The share of people with higher education in the public service is significantly higher. In 2018, the proportion of people with higher education in Estonia was 41% of all employed people, while in the public sector, the public service was 60%. Speaking more about the characteristics of the composition of the Estonian public service, it should be noted that the public service continues to be relatively young: the average age is 43.4 years. And this indicator is on an upward trend, as in other areas. According to the gender distribution, there are slightly more women in the public service than men, but younger men clearly predominate in the special service. A quick look at the search and training of the labour force. While, on the one hand, there is a need to find ways of optimising resources and labour, on the other hand, it is extremely important to find a skilled workforce for public wages. The indicator of voluntary staff turnover is below the critical flow rate, so there should be no crazy flow rate, but there is a slight upward trend: 8% in the national authorities and 10% in the local authorities. Some 4300 personnel searches were carried out in the public service, of which 850, or 19%, failed. The most difficult thing is to find suitable candidates for internal security agencies and the Defence Forces. 26.8% of these competitions failed. If you look at the sector, the turnover was highest among the public sector IT workers and in the Prison Board, these are the two clear sectors with the highest turnover. Regular training and the development of employees are necessary to ensure that public service and state-paid workers are competent and responsive to the rapid changes in society in their day-to-day work. In 2018, after Estonia had held the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the supporting and developing activities following the first phase of the administrative reform were brought into the focus of the training activities of local governments. At central government level, in 2018 the focus was on service management skills and the secondary growth of middle management in order to improve the quality of management. In public service, in addition to being competent, credibility and compliance with the principles of ethics of an official are also essential values. In order to promote an ethical culture of behaviour, ethics and corruption prevention training continued last year and the procedures governing the acceptance of gifts and benefits were approved. On 1 April 2018, five years after the adoption of the Public Service Act, the report provides an overview of the implementation of the Law. Last year, the Ministry of Finance primarily gave advice on the implementation of the law, especially on legal issues arising from the administrative reform of local government. In short, the plans for the future. Strategic human resource management remains essential in addressing the challenges of human resources. For the public service to be competitive, building the reputation of the state as an employer, a competitive and fair wage policy, a consistent development of people, improving the quality of governance and meeting the expectations of the labour market are essential. In 2019 and beyond, the removal of state-paid jobs from the capital city, the promotion of flexible working conditions and teleworking will continue. By the end of 2023, public buildings in the county centres will, in addition to making public services more accessible, make it possible to improve the working conditions of public workers in the regions and to expand teleworking opportunities. We have agreed in the government that recruitment for public service and, more generally, public pay should be more flexible than hitherto. The best candidate must have the opportunity to work in his/her home country. People in all counties deserve to work for their country. I am pleased that there are already public authorities that are actively implementing this practice in recruitment, such as the Social Insurance Board and the Environmental Board. I also had two such pleasant meetings last week: one was at the opening of the premises and work of a unit of the Social Insurance Board at Türi and also visited the office of Pärnu EAS. When you talk to people, the feedback is very positive. In most of these people have been hired from the same area and there have been no problems if you give enough time to remove the institution or unit from Tallinn. I will do my best to ensure that the public service continues to do good and effective work so far. In this way, we will set an example for other countries, both in Europe and beyond. As a small country, Estonia has the advantage of being quick and flexible in bringing about various changes. This requires that the best people in our field work in our public service. In order to find and maintain them, the public service must be reliable, of good repute, and employees must be continuously developed and rewarded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U70	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U71	Thank you. Honourable Minister of State Administration! We heard nothing about the deep state or the problem of much of the public service on our skin. The members of the government threaten them and promise to clean them up. There are concrete examples and we can always confirm that officials in the role of an expert are being ignored, threatened and allowed to be accused of anti-state activities. Specifically, we are talking about the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior. That was yesterday, and that's exactly what it said on Sunday on the radio. As Minister of State Administration, do you have anything to say about this, to make an assessment? Do you think that this is an anti-state activity that the members of the government are appropriate to classify in this way and for which people may be threatened?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U72	Thank you for your question. Well, I don't know how to judge so harshly. I'll give you an example of a funny little episode from the U.S. Department. When we drove up with the officials in the elevator, some officials said to go to the deep state to find out if it's a minus one floor or a minus two floors. But that was a joke. We didn't identify this deep country. And, as I said in the review, in fact, our public service, given all the challenges that have been in recent times and which I have been talking about here, has been very good. Those officials I am dealing with cannot say that there are vastly redundant officials or self-thinking officials somewhere. Officials do their daily work and do it well. I haven't had any negative contact. When we talk about the public service in general, as well as the government sector, we have taken a pretty clear course of action to continue the reform of the state. It is such a broad and perhaps a slightly dissipating concept, but we really want to seriously analyse the work of public authorities, identify duplications and identify places that are uncovered. The ministries are seriously working on this. But other comments, as you wish, Jürgen, and what you gave me, I won't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U73	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Ülle Madise has only recently expressed his deep concern at the very top of the Riigikogu that the state does not value the officials working on the front line. In particular, he spoke about social and child protection workers. If I look at this report now, I can see that social work, for example, is part of the five lowest-paid service groups. The average salary of officials, as you said, is indeed EUR 1711 but when I look at the average salary of local government units, I see that it is EUR 1139. I could not find in this report how much social and child welfare workers are paid in local governments. Is there any hope that we will also take greater advantage at national level of the work of people who are directly exposed to family problems and, in part, to highly sensitive issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U75	Thank you for your question and for referring to the current problem. The Minister of Public Administration also gives an overview of salaries during the discussion of the state budget strategy, including those sectors that are lagging behind. The issue of social workers has been going through for many years, and this has been taken into account in recent budgets, and I hope that it will continue to be taken into account. You can't just write a paycheck out of a lamp, it's gotta come true. Now the second, internal security field. After all, this year, the salaries of the active policemen, the active rescuers, rose quite a bit, so it has been done. Is that enough? It is always a question of how much resources there are and how to share it, but it is certainly worth keeping these topics under consideration. When I meet local governments, I have highlighted social and social services in particular. This is ultimately the decision of the local government as to what the remuneration policy is. The government has contributed a little to certain groups. You know that there has been separate support for recreational education, for example, there has been separate support for raising the salaries of kindergarten teachers. This is the decision of the local government, which has made a serious contribution in recent years to the fact that wages have increased quite a bit in these groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U76	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of State Administration! Chapter 3 of this report contains information on labour costs and average wages. The increase in general government labour costs last year was 9.4%, which is 3% more than the average gross wage increase in Estonia, as you state in this report. Businesses have highlighted this on several occasions and, let us say, not without criticism. The budget for next year will be handed over tomorrow. How will this process continue? Is the growth in the average gross wage of the government sector still faster than the growth in the average gross wage of Estonia, and how can we comment on this when it is known that the money is not very much anymore and is not enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U78	Thank you for your question. At the beginning, I gave an overview of what the government sector is, which is a public service. The average wage of the general government is calculated by health care workers, teachers who have recently been raised more quickly go to cultural workers, domestic security workers, local government employees. It is in these sectors that wage growth has been much faster. When we're talking about public service in the central government of the country, that's the number I brought. This is well below the average wage growth in the country. So some sectors are politically highlighted: we are talking about teachers, cultural workers, we are talking about policemen, internal security workers. In some sectors, however, other causes of wage increases dictate, for example, the wage growth of health workers. After all, it is important that health professionals stay in Estonia and do not leave. These are the wage agreements that the government sector or the public sector must comply with.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U79	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U80	Mr. Minister! The public service and public reform are such things where one of you supports the other. Although it is extremely difficult to define state reform, it is expected that there will be a similar embarrassment for a person who has to say what colour love is, in general, when it comes to state reform, we expect, above all, that it is a set of activities that will lead towards a more effective state. And within this framework, one step has been taken, which is also very visually visible: it is a move together of five ministries, which was, on the one hand, such a real estate venture, but, on the other hand, very clearly aimed at better cooperation between ministries. It was hoped that, in this case, a better mutual understanding would emerge. How do you judge, now there is a small experience of whether bringing the five ministries together in one complex has improved the cooperation of the ministries, led to further progress? And what has been the effect of the so-called cabinet solution, where there are a number of specialists in one room?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U81	Thank you for your question. Well, he's a little extraordinary, isn't he, this form of U.S. Department? I can't think of a similar example from neighbouring countries. Overall, I think this is a positive experience. After all, I have walked through this house quite several times, visited my departments as well as other ministries that are in that house, and also studied how the work is going to work. And there is nothing to say, even between ministers, that cooperation is relatively simple, because I do not have to look for at least four ministers along Tallinn. We can meet at the diner at lunch and solve a number of current issues very quickly. The same kind of communication is made between officials. And they are also looking for new and smart solutions for how certain tasks of ministries, support functions to better implement just a lot of things are done together. Up to the point that there may be a need for legal support in resolving a matter and then it will be possible to summarise very quickly lawyers or legal departments in different fields and resolve the matter. As far as this working environment is concerned now, the attitude is individual. An open and functional office for some people is more suitable than for others, nothing can be done. I haven't heard any comment that I don't want to work here at all and I'm going away. People generally get used to it. We have tried to improve the working environment constantly and resolve these issues when they arise. So I'd say it's still a positive experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U82	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia told the day before yesterday that Donald Trump is basically still more or less an official in the United States and is also gaining control of the special services, Boris Johnson is facing this fight very much, but he can and will also have us. And he was given a second by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia: if it turns out that the heads of the authorities are those who think that their orders and guidelines and political objectives cannot be given, then we will amend the law on public service and make it so that these people can be put to work for the benefit of the government. It is for the good of the government, not for the good of the Republic of Estonia. We know that this summer these same men were trying to dismiss one of the most important public servants in Estonia, completely illegal, for whatever subjective reason, and we know that many other people have actually been threatened with dismissal. You are the minister responsible for the public service, do you realise that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U84	Thanks for asking. My relatively simple and brief answer is that the Government of the Republic's work plan does not include any amendment of the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U85	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U86	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, The Prime Minister and I argued here whether the share of Estonian public sector employees in the population is 11.7% and how this should change. In particular, the section 'State governance' of the national budget strategy foresees an increase in the share of government employees to 17.7%. The Prime Minister, of course, sent me a statement after a statement and said that there was a mistake here, but in the Ministry of Finance there is still almost 7% error in the country's budget strategy in this area that you are reporting to us now. How should readers still know how many employees in the public sector are in Estonia and where are they going?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U87	Thank you for your question. I can't comment on that particular mistake, I need to see if there's still that mistake, and that's a mistake, as far as I know. As far as other figures are concerned, the report that has been submitted to you today should provide an adequate overview. In addition, the website of the Ministry of Finance provides a very comprehensive overview of public service, public sector wages. We have improved over the years, and we can give an overview of it. As I said, the public sector is large; it includes, for example, large hospitals where the number of employees is increasing. There's no way to report it, as I think a few years ago, that hospitals should also reduce their staff. No way! We know that the volume of health services is expanding and that these workers are rather missing. For example, the number of police officers has also increased, and this has been the case in recent years, with a clear political desire to increase the number of local constables. So there are areas where the number of employees is increasing anyway. It is not the case that staff in all sectors and sectors is shrinking. However, when we talk about a classic official and a public service in the public sector, these numbers have decreased every year, with 500 fewer people in the middle. Better organisation of work, the consolidation of information technology, support services will provide an opportunity for this. I would point out, for example, that the State Support Services Centre has all the state administration accounting together, including personnel accounting, etc. Previously, each unit had its own accounting, personnel accounting, etc. It's given me a really big effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U88	Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U89	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Thank you, my dear waitress, for a meaningful and thorough presentation. The public service report for 2018 shows that the labour costs of the general government increased by 9.4%. Does the budget for next year include an increase in public labour costs and, if so, how much?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U90	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, I owe you an answer to that question. I think today, about 4:00, we'll be smarter on this. Until the government seal is broken, I can't preach one, two, or three here. But it's definitely been a matter of attention. And, as has been said here, my interest in these processes has also been that the pay of the so-called frontline worker, which has been lower, we know these sectors would rise. For example, the savior's wages rose by nearly 20% this year. If you ask where this percentage of government wage increases comes from, I will say that there were very strong wage increases in certain sectors and this raises the average. At the same time, I was talking about public service in the state sector, these increases are well below the average wage growth in Estonia in 2018. All these numbers I brought out here. But next year's budget is due to reach the Riigikogu right away. It's got all the numbers in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The current Prime Minister of the previous government, Jüri Ratas, has emphasised here in the Riigikogu that it is important to help people who have lost their ability to work, too. In this report, I did not find a possible objective and a plan to implement it, concerning the recruitment of people with reduced capacity to work in the public sector. Is this subject now completely off the agenda, or did the Prime Minister just blur us here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U92	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U93	Thanks for asking. In fact, this has been a general approach in the public sector in recent years. The aim is to involve people with reduced working capacity, including people with disabilities, and we will certainly see such people in ministries. I know a lot of people like this at the Ministry of Finance and elsewhere at the U.S. Department's house, even people with wheelchairs. The general direction is that. If this is not accurately reflected in the report, I will note it to myself, really, why not. After all, we have received other more accurate data that were not previously included in such reports. They were also included in the country's budget strategy or are now presented here in a public service report. For example, the question of the pay gap, which, if an overall indicator is assessed, is not very bad in the public service or in the public sector compared to the private sector, but the issue certainly needs to be addressed. As I recall, the pay gap in the public sector was 8%.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U94	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U95	Good manager! Good waitress! Jüri Raidla and his associates have repeatedly said that there are too many officials. I'm not gonna tell you what they're all gonna do or not. Raidla has clearly stated that the number of officials exercising public authority could be halved. I have read one opinion that an additional EUR 300 million would be made available to the state budget if we reduced 15%. My question is: how much of the number of officials in this area in a year or, let's say, four years until the next elections, under the direction of your minister? How many percent? Half, 15%, or guess, tell me what that number is?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U96	Thank you for your question. Last year, the number of employees in the public service decreased by 720, an exact number. And this concerns public service in a narrower sense, not the whole government sector, which we are talking about here, these numbers are very different, aren't they? I'm trying to say, look at the right numbers. The total number of people in public service is 27500, it is total municipalities and also the central government of the country. And now if we do a little bit of separation work, 10,000 of this public service work in special services, police, rescue, defence, etc. If we take out another 5,500 local government officials there, then in fact there will be 6500 of these classic officials on all ministries and agencies. So there's no such huge army of officials here that can be halved. I don't think so. If we look at the wider government sector, there is something we can do with smarter governance, aggregating support services and certainly with these state reform activities. On 1 August, the Cabinet approved a programme of activities for the reform of the state. There are very different activities. Well, Ivar just asked what this state reform is. The state reform is that we are trying to achieve a better result with fewer resources, including fewer people and less money. This is what action is aimed at. We have very specific activities, this plan can be seen. One of the things that gets more attention is that we are analysing the state of the ministry agencies: what is happening somewhere, whether there are tasks that do not make sense to replicate. The ministries are coming out with these tests. Specific deadlines have been set. The Ministry of Education and Research will present its analysis for example in November and following ministries in March. Very basically, work is being done. It is not possible to mathematically add that we are putting this authority together with someone, and everything is fine, it is half the officials. But if there's no state work, no service, no one's happy. Then businesses and local authorities come to ask why they do not receive this assistance or service within a reasonable period of time. But certainly the general focus is that the pace that is currently being maintained is: by 500 to 1 000 people in the public sector, the number of employees is decreasing every year. I'm sure these jobs will be reduced, but how much exactly, I'm probably smarter in the spring. I don't know where else to take this number, the ministries themselves in their analysis say what the goal is and what the outcome might be.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U97	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U98	Thank you. Good waitress, thank you for this presentation. My question to you is about the quality of management. When I look at the part 5.2 of the report that talks about evaluation, I see that in some one third or a little more government institutions, managers do not conduct development or evaluation discussions, although this is mandatory by law. Even if it were not mandatory by law, it is still, I think, one of the main tasks of the leader to stand up for his team to evolve and for him to develop himself as a leader. What is your assessment of the quality of management in the public service?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U99	Thank you! Again, an important topical question! This report also refers to weaknesses, not only to the number line that we have put together, but also to essentially weak positions. I think this is an issue that needs to be given more attention. I was talking here about reforming or reviewing the state structure. The idea has certainly also been that we should train leaders in a certain way so that they can do as effective and high-quality work as possible in this new model, the new template. This has also been said by various ministries, and the Department of Public Administration and Public Service, acting under the direction of the Minister of Public Administration, has certainly put it in its future plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U100	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U101	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Thanks for the report! You can still read it. You didn't get it that fast. But maybe you'll shed some light on how progress has been made in moving the authorities out of the capital. And another thing, control. Control is very important, but it is currently very inadequate in terms of language learning, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U102	Thank you for your question. I guess I'm not the best one to answer the last question, so you can ask the Minister for Industry. However, as far as the removal of public authorities is concerned, this was also one of the objectives set by the previous government. I was honored to be Minister of State Administration for a while, too, and I was working very hard on it. I was talking about this experience last week that was positive for me. There too, numerical targets were set. It wasn't that it was absolutely necessary to carry out the task in the planning economy, but there might have been a purpose ahead and it was 1000 jobs out of Tallinn. The latest data show that some of the processes are still in progress, that 830 jobs have been taken out of Tallinn. At the same time, we must take into account that there was also a negative shift in the regions: the rural governments stopped working. While most people in this process found new jobs either in public authorities or in municipalities, some 250 people still had to move to the private sector or retire. So when we talk about 830, we have to subtract some part of it, which was also the result of the state reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U103	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U104	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I may be doing a little work for the coalition ambassadors, but I take great heat on your work, and I have also done the reform of the public service myself. You responded strongly to my colleague Taavi Rõivas that there was nothing in the government's agenda that would change the law on public service, concerning special services, etc. First, of course, the various types of special services have their own laws, as we both know, and second, point 3.2 of the Government's 2019/2023 action programme states: the draft law amending the laws governing public service, the responsible Minister of Justice. I'm going to give you a chance to correct yourself so we don't get out of here knowing that you've given misleading information.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U105	Thank you for your question. Some kind of review of laws or some kind of review must take place. In my area of administration, for example, there is one thing that we are dealing with and that I recommend that everyone be involved in. This is the law on public procurement, on which we collect proposals. On a particular process, I really do not know what exactly they want to do there, but it is certainly not aimed at, I dare to confirm, some kind of rocking of the rule of law, some sort of extraordinary influence or something like that. Such a thing is not included in the government coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U106	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U107	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I have one comment for the next year's report and one question. While our labour market overall has one third of people of other nationalities, there is a tenth in the public sector. Previously, the 2017 report also gave an overview of where they work in the public sector, what education they have and what age distribution is. If we have the goal of increasing coherence, much information still tells us whether the share of people of other nationalities in the public service, for example, is increasing. This time this dimension is not reflected at all in the report, perhaps next year it could be brought back. My question, however, is about the gender pay gap. While in the public sector, the gender pay gap has been smaller than in Estonia as a whole, among top managers, where there are very few women, less than a quarter, the pay gap has increased by 2% per year over the last three years, which is actually very much. Do you see the public sector playing an important role in setting an example in order to reduce the gender pay gap in Estonia as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U108	Thank you for your question. A very good and topical question again! As far as I know, this whole issue of pay gap has only been dealt with in the annual public service report for the second year. Or rather, yes, it's been inside before, but every year, the information becomes more accurate. Everything has been carefully weighed, more accurately measured. And I'm certainly not gonna argue with you. The public service must be an example and it must certainly be addressed in all areas. That is why we are monitoring all of this and we are making our proposals. With regard to whether the activities concerned could have been shown in any way, it is possible to think about that. Perhaps next time we will see what has been done in this direction in the ministries. As regards the involvement of the Russian-speaking population in the public sector, in the public service, such a point of the Government's work plan exists and the Minister of Public Administration is responsible. We've dealt with this a lot. I am counting on the assistance of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Culture, because it has dealt with integration programmes and various other activities in this direction. We would like to put together an action plan on how to go to the young people in Russian and promote this sector. After all, there is a pragmatic view that if I am Russian, for example, and if I am not an Estonian citizen, then I have nothing to do in the government sector. But we know that most people in the public sector work in employment contracts, where there is no obstacle at all. I've talked about this in my ministry with Dmitri Egorov, whom you all probably know, and Dmitri Moskovtsev, we have such examples in the Ministry of Finance. They have already spoken, and they are very interested to participate in such a series of events and to pass by Russian-speaking schools and introduce the work of the public service. At least there's got to be an idea that no one's been rejected, that there's a chance. The opera itself is how this training should proceed in the future, but I think that if a person realizes that he has the opportunity, interest will grow.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U109	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U110	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns regional colleges. You yourself have just stressed the importance of taking jobs out of Tallinn, but there is now a danger that jobs created with care and love and effort in Viljandi, Pärnu, Kohtla-Järve and Narva may disappear. The universities say that regional tasks cannot be carried out by means of study and research funding. There is no doubt that colleges have a regional political dimension; certainly, colleges have to redesign themselves themselves in changed circumstances, but what is your position: what is the role of regional colleges in public universities and how should they be financed from the point of view of spending study and research money?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U111	Thank you for your question. The simplest answer would be that a regional coefficient could be taken into account in the financing model for regional colleges and universities of applied sciences. Why isn't it so far? I think that public universities have done quite well so far, but always when there is a lack of money, say, in the central unit, the first thing to do is to look at the costs that are being spent away from the basic university. It's a serious problem, I share it. We are going to have one broader regional policy debate in the government and bring all the current issues to the table. We are not talking about the Ida-Virumaa programme and the activities of Ida-Virumaa for example this week, but this is one of the regions concerned. One issue that concerns Estonia more generally is indeed those colleges that are located in these cities. There's a withdrawal there, there's fewer students, because the universities themselves have tightened up this activity. I consider this activity to be very important for regional policy. In Pärnu, a municipal day was held where self-governing and entrepreneurs spoke and where the view was very clear that one of the key issues is applied higher education in the regions and its connection to vocational and upper secondary school education. This template should work regionally. We know a businessman who has taken the initiative, in cooperation with private universities: this is Arno Kütt from Cleveron in Viljandi. He said that he could not solve the problem of having no employees with the necessary qualifications through the public education system. So I certainly support this, too, and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, we must come up with a solution. Still, everybody wants money. I don't think there's a quick solution, but we mustn't forget this problem, so let's quietly let these colleges tick out. We do agree on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U112	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U113	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The increase in the minimum wage and the minimum wage every year is, in this sense, very important to prevent the growth of inequalities in society. When I looked at the statistics, there should be about 130,000 people in Estonia who receive the minimum wage, but those who work part-time, etc. But can you tell me how many people in the public sector do full-time work and receive a minimum wage? And if, by chance, the negotiations between trade unions and employers were to go wrong over the minimum wage for next year, what would your position be on the amount of the minimum wage for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U114	Thank you for your question. I have to tell you right away, I don't know the exact number, but I'm starting to care about it myself. I'll check it out. There are probably very few people working in the public sector for the minimum wage. At the same time, many things are connected. For example, the kindergarten place fee paid by parents is linked to the minimum wage by means of a formula. I believe that a minimum wage agreement should be concluded between employers and trade unions. This is a traditional issue between the social partners and I think it could remain that way. But the law provides that if no agreement is reached, this difficult task will fall on the government. I think that raising the minimum wage is important and should continue. Well, they've agreed on certain levels, don't you think it should reach a certain level of average pay and shouldn't fall behind. I very much hope that trade unions and employers will agree on this. But the question of employees in the public sector was a very good question. If I may, I will answer in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U115	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U116	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Raig, about the topic. The City of Pärnu has made a cooperation agreement with Pärnu College of the University of Tartu to provide additional funding for development. Have other regional colleges and municipalities also discussed the possibility of cooperating on funding issues? That is the most important thing, as you yourself pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U117	Thank you for the specific question. I know Pärnu City's good cooperation with college. The municipalities of other regions have been involved in different projects, but I would say that Pärnu's participation has been highest. This has been a concrete agreement, a concrete funding. When we prepare this issue for discussion in the study, the Ministry of Education and I would like to make this information collection to see how this funding is then: whether there are additional resources involved and, if so, from whom. But right now, I do owe you a specific answer. I have heard that various projects have tried to work together in different businesses, and maybe there will be some help, but I do not know that anyone would have such an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U118	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U119	Thank you, Jaak, for this review. You've been working at the state machine for quite a while. Now, if you look back on this year 2018, please make your assessment of whether we still have a little too much public sector compared to the European Union average and other countries of the European Union. How do you feel about further cuts in staff costs as well as in the number of people if we are looking at the European Union's 'general' view? How do you feel if we should reduce the public sector yet or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U120	Thank you for your question. Today I was trying to talk a little bit about what we're still trying to do, what we're trying to do, essentially. One thing is, yes, to put up a beautiful slogan that we're just pulling a part of the public sector together, but it just doesn't work. There are, as I said in the public sector, large hospitals, police officers, special servants, local authorities, etc. But when we are talking about a narrower public service in the public sector, we are certainly looking for ways to improve. Somewhere around here, they've already called 'Massim merges' or something. We're trying to do this basically, not mechanically, not by spreading out the percentages, so that everyone can take down so much now. We appreciate the content of the work, review the duplications in planning, organisation and supervision, which are for example the subject of MKM. We're looking for those opportunities. This is a clear wish, and it is actually agreed in the government office, but we rely on substantive analyses. That's where we're going. As I said, information technology is evolving, many solutions have been developed in the country for years, and this work will go on. Next year, we will probably hear good news about the administrative burden and communication of businesses and individuals with the country. These solutions come up, we have developed them in a row, which in itself means that we can manage with a smaller resource and perhaps a smaller number of people, with the same work being done even better. The short answer is that the aim of the reform of the state is to achieve a better result with fewer resources. This direction is quite clear and I can say that the Cabinet will support me on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U121	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U122	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister Aab, my dear waitress. My question is motivated by the presentation by Mrs Ülle Madise, Chancellor of Justice, here last week. He actually quite clearly emphasised that there was a lot of substitution activity in point 1. And point 2: In the public sector, it is the frontier workers who are less motivated and paid than ministerial officials. Do you share this concern and have you considered a possible solution? Here, the topic of local self-government autonomy is also in place.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U123	Thanks for asking. I can't go into very details, so I'd talk for a very long time. But I gave an example of what happened to kindergarten teachers' salaries. Indeed, in some places, especially farther away from Tallinn, the salaries of kindergarten teachers rose twice. This issue had simply not been taken up before the interest, and so these salaries were very much below the other wages and the average salary. When the state politically raised this issue and allocated some money to it, the state of affairs improved considerably. The social sector is also one of the concerns of local governments, but the local government is autonomous, it decides its own wage policies, structures and so on. There's a lot of issues. The whole issue of care is actually mostly on the municipalities. We hear that help is not enough, that it is too burdensome for a person to care for his loved ones, etc. I know the Ministry of Social Affairs is serious about this. One possible solution is to agree on a certain level of pay for these services and, even initially, to help resolve this problem together, perhaps to add a small amount of extra money. This is probably the only way to influence, no general wage level can be established across Estonia. I know that teachers agree, there are wage negotiations, etc., there are wage negotiations for cultural workers, but they concern public employees as a specific obligation. The local governments are coming like they're after it. So it's still a problem. I agree that the front line workers are in trouble. At the same time, we have been doing some things lately, haven't we? We're talking about policemen and rescuers, we've wanted them to get paid, too, and we've succeeded. But all these other sectors... As I said, when discussing each budget and country's budgetary strategy, the Minister of Public Administration gives an overview of the entire public sector's wages, and we have not done so in recent years. Areas where there are serious backwards have also been tried to help.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U124	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. Thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. We will proceed with the political group negotiations. First of all, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Lauri Western Forest, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U125	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, For society, all employees are necessary, be it a janitor, an official, a teacher, a doctor or a repairman. Each person must be paid for his or her work. Every person must feel valued, both in the public and private sectors. Wages in the public service are also a question of security, development of the country, but it is often also a matter of regional policy choice. For example, police officers, rescuers and teachers work throughout Estonia and their incomes affect every village in Estonia and every person in Estonia. This is the logic that the Social Democrats have used in the past in government, and that is why the report that has just been heard gives an overview of wage increases in the areas of responsibility of the ministries curated by the Social Democrats. As we can read in the report submitted by the Minister of Public Administration, in 2018 the most additional money was allocated to the payroll fund for cultural workers and teachers: their payroll fund increased by 17.6%, i.e. by 10 million euros and 13.2%, i.e. by 36 million euros, respectively. In the field of internal security and social welfare, 4.5% of the additional money was allocated to the payroll fund. An additional EUR 2.8 million was allocated to implement the health care workers' wage agreement. As a result, wages increased by 20% in the Rescue Board, by 10.7% in the Police and Border Guard Board, by 5% in the Emergency Response Centre, by 20% in IT institutions, by 12% in the field of social welfare, by 5.7% in cultural workers and by 5.9% in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As I said, it is no coincidence that people's salaries increased in the areas that were curated by socialist ministers in 2018. The Social Democrats have made an effort to ensure that the people employed by the country this year do not have to worry and look around the labour market, but can do their job well. For example, EUR 12.9 million was allocated to increase the salaries of the police and border guards and EUR 7.9 million was allocated to the Salvation Board's payroll fund. However, we are concerned that according to the statements made to the Riigikogu in the 2020 budget, the money for wage increases is either not available or is intended for only a few percent increase. However, the forecast of the Ministry of Finance for 2020 predicts an overall increase of 5.4% in the state's wages. It is not only 2020 that worries, as the government has indicated that wages will not increase in the coming years. For example, this passporting eats the efforts of previous interior ministers Andres Anvelt and Katri Raig to make the police pay 120% compared to the average salary in Estonia, and pulls the brake on the image of the teacher who has already begun to appear as a recognised occupation in terms of salary. 'Man above all! ' should be our guiding principle, not our populist election promises. Negotiations are currently under way between trade unions and employers on next year's minimum wage. In the public sector, too, the further away from Tallinn, the more jobs are available where the minimum wage is paid, or a little more than that. If it should happen now that no agreement will be reached during the negotiations, then the government will have the order. All people are valuable to us, and in a situation where Estonia's average wage is growing on the bump, the minimum wage should not rise to 600 euros, but more, because the base from which the minimum wage is raised has always been too small. Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U126	Thank you. Hanno Pevkur, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U127	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The public service is not in any way separate from the general life of Estonia. It is a large part of our lives. When we look at the report that we have before us, it really gives a good overview of a great many figures: how many employees we have in the public service, which are their salaries across sectors and so on. But these are actually dry numbers. They do not give us a real picture of what public service problems are. Of course, I agree with Jag who says he can't make a mechanical cut or cut. Totally agrees, but that is why we need to look inside the area and understand where our problems lie. And I look forward to seeing whoever the minister is next year, from the government to the hall, what are the substantive problems and what are the trends in the public service. Indeed, when we look at numbers, we see that the wage costs of our public service are relatively higher than GDP in the European Union on average. Surprisingly, they are bigger than even Ireland or Luxembourg. Small countries can therefore afford to have more effective government. Now it is up to us to find places where we have too much state service and too much state service. But I come back once again to the fact that I really want to see in this report where the concerns of our public service lie. Maybe they change year after year. It seems to me that social security, or people's confidence in the public sector, has started to fluctuate a little. Yes, on the one hand, public service is attractive. There are quite a number of people who want to work there, with an average of nine people applying for a job. On the other hand, we hear that officials are forced to remain silent; officials cannot or must not express their opinion. If any of the officials say it out loud, he'll be disdained. Such things should not really be accepted in Estonia, even if we actually have fantastic experts in the official department. And I think that if we say that we have a competition for nine people and we choose the best of the best of them to move forward to Estonia, then we say that their expertise is not worth knowing, that they do not know what they are saying, or that they have done a false analysis or a false expert review, well hear, ministers come and go, but the official department, the Estonian public service is what has actually been carrying on consistently to the Estonian state. There are, of course, changes in the official body, but there is no need to put officials under such pressure that they can no longer say what they think of one thing or another. I very much hope that this trend in recent years, in the last few years, will force officials into the frame, so that they cannot think of anything, so that their free self-realization will be influenced, that this trend will run out quite quickly. We cannot afford to see people who have come to the Estonian state to serve and contribute to the Estonian state their best knowledge, as a result of some kind of political change, in a situation where they must not give up their opinion or are, even worse, in a situation where they want to be dismissed illegally, as we saw in the case of the police leader. But figures into figures. A good current government, as well as future governments, who will ever read these verbatim charts! I very much hope that, in addition to the dry figures and statistics, we will have a little more structural analysis of what has been the bottlenecks in the Estonian public service in a given year that need to be improved. Good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U128	Thank you. Heiki Hepner on behalf of the Isamaa Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the Minister for presenting the report. The number of employees in the public sector has clearly decreased over the last five years: the fall has been around 5700 employees, i.e. 4.1%. In 2018, the public sector's workforce decreased by half a percentage point. This is certainly positive, as it forces both the search for effective and modern solutions that will make the country as a whole more competitive. 2018 was undoubtedly a novelty for a large number of civil servants, especially those working in local governments. 2018 can be described as very important for regional policy, as it was the first full year after the administrative reform. Now we can start a first analysis of how local governments have done and how they have adapted to the changed circumstances. Local authorities have seen an increase in the number of officials who can concentrate on one particular task rather than perform tasks alongside other responsibilities. In this context, accessions have also achieved the prerequisites for providing higher-quality services to the public, with an increase in the professional level of the official body. Despite the larger municipalities, however, cooperation between local governments and the conscious development of various important capacities is still important. Some observations on the posts of special servants covered by the annual report. On the positive side, both the number of PPA police officers and the number of members of the Defence Forces has increased by 0.8 and 1.6%, respectively, compared to 2017. Growth may not be great, but it does exist. At the same time, care should be taken to reduce the number of rescue staff in the Rescue Board. Although this reduction has not been large, it is only 0.4%, it is still a reduction, and it must be very careful that it does not become a downward trend, leading to our established ability to save. In addition to the number of jobs, it is also crucial to analyse labour costs in human resources policy. The general government labour cost increased by 9.4% in 2018, which is the largest increase in recent years. The increase in government average and gross wages was 3% higher in 2018 than the average increase in Estonian gross wages. The average gross wage in Estonia was 1310 euros, as has already been said many times, and it increased by 7.3%. The average gross government wage was 1360 euros and increased by 10.3%. The gross wage in local government units was clearly below this average: EUR 1139. Thus, it is certainly a point of thought to ensure, however, adequate wage growth in larger municipalities as well. One solution is obviously to strengthen the financing base of municipalities consistently. At the same time, of course, it cannot be overlooked that it was in municipalities that wages increased the most: 12.1%. The increase in wages in the municipalities was largely due to the extra money allocated to the teachers' wage fund. The teachers' gross monthly wages in the LA sector increased by 15% last year and their average gross monthly wage was 1478 euros. The increase in the salaries of teachers in general education schools, as well as of kindergarten teachers, was in a way a catalyst for wage growth in the entire local government sector. The general government's average gross wage position improved last year in most areas, most notably health care and education, as compared to Estonia's average gross wage. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U130	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U131	The pay position has fallen in two areas: national defence and environmental protection. This, of course, requires analysis and reflection. However, if we look at the areas that are currently below the national average, they will continue to be education, as well as social protection and culture with leisure time. Here, in the coming year and in the coming years, there is certainly a subject for thinking in these areas too, pay should be sufficient and competitive. Finally, a few thoughts for the next few years. As has already been mentioned, in the coming years the responsibilities of municipalities and the state will need to be analysed in order to grub up unnecessary duplication, making the state even more efficient and flexible. Unhealthy competition between the state and local authorities, as well as between counties, must also be avoided. One example where there is pointless duplication is the issue of research permits for the extraction of mineral resources. The current legal practice has become such that local governments are practically unable to give a negative answer. Let him, let him, write or speak as much as he pleases. A large number of people from the public sector are doing work that has no impact and the result of which is known in advance. It is important that local authorities and public authorities that operate on one basis are treated equally. In particular, I am thinking of the area of education in which state secondary schools and municipal schools operate as general education schools from primary schools to secondary schools. It is important to stress that equal opportunities, including equal funding, must be guaranteed for all schools, both in terms of staff policy and in terms of covering economic costs. The second example concerns competition between counties. The average wage of Harju County exceeds the average gross wage of Estonia by 11%. The average wage level of any other county does not reach the average wage in Estonia. Thanks to Harjumaa's higher salary, some authorities pay extra fees to attract officials to work in Harjumaa. However, the payment of such an additional premium should not get too carried forward, as this could lead to the drought of officials in the neighbouring counties of Harjumaa in filling posts that require the same competence. Certainly in the coming years, the removal of state-paid jobs from the capital and the promotion of teleworking opportunities, as well as the development of state buildings in county centres, must continue. Finally, I would like to thank all the civil service and, more generally, all the civil servants-workers for their contribution to the good fortune of our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U132	Thank you. The political groups have no further wish for negotiations. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have had an overview of the 2018 report on the Civil Service. Thank you to all participants. Thank you, Minister. The second item has been discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U133	Let's keep going. Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U134	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I hereby give a brief overview of bill 57 and then I will be happy to answer your questions. The Government of the Republic has submitted a draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act to the Riigikogu, which amends the current organisation of proficiency and examinations in the basic school. The need to change the external evaluation of comprehensive school learning outcomes has long arisen. Discussions on possible solutions started more than five years ago. Discussions have now reached the level of the Riigikogu for the first time. Changes in the conditions of graduating from comprehensive school and in the waiver of national final exams have been the most popular. However, little attention has been paid to changes in the wider system of external evaluation of learning outcomes, for which the proposed draft actually creates an opportunity. I also consider it necessary to refute the fears that the amendments to the draft will lead to a deterioration in the quality of education in primary schools. As before, graduates of primary school will only receive a graduation certificate if the curriculum has been completed in full and successfully with a positive result. Losing the final exams does not mean that a comprehensive school certificate can be obtained more easily. On the contrary, passing exams and examinations at school does not go away, and their completion is still necessary to obtain a comprehensive school certificate. National tests must also be carried out and may influence whether students' knowledge is judged sufficient for completion. However, I am of the opinion that the demand for national comprehensive school final exams in its current form does not best support either the student motivation or the goals that we wish to achieve in the long term with the introduction of a new approach to learning. International teacher studies in 2013 and 2018 maybe you know them more precisely as TALIS suggest that teachers can speak well about how best to support the learner's development, but what happens in class is often not actually consistent with it. The focus of education policy is to develop a self-leading learner based on supporting the learner's autonomous motivation. For today's teachers, this is in many ways a new approach, and it differs strongly from what is customary. Some of the beliefs associated with learning are often hampering support for students' autonomy. For example, it is believed that with higher fees, the effort is greater or that the learner cannot motivate himself. I believe that the role of testing must not be to intimidate a learner. The level work at the various stages of learning needs to be seen rather than the challenges, the feedback of which helps to understand the results of the student's efforts to date and to better identify what needs to be paid attention to and what is the right way to study. The student's progress is primarily influenced by further communication, which gives you the opportunity to see how to improve your performance and progress. Each student will have the opportunity to better shape his or her personal learning pathways and to focus on his or her progress rather than on a generalized standard. Unfortunately, today's final exams no longer comply with the principles of modern evaluation. To sum up very briefly, the draft replaces the current national exams relating to completion of basic school, the national tests carried out throughout the course of education, and the examinations or other work required for completion of basic school, which the school decides and organises. We want stakeholders to see testing as a useful and necessary tool that provides important information in order to do better. What is important is that testing provides adequate information, for example, to monitor the quality of education in the country, organise the school's own quality management, exchange with the teacher in order to improve the way the students work and explain their learning needs to the student, and we also hope to make better career decisions. At the time of the final exams, a large proportion of students in comprehensive school have already taken the entrance exams of some upper secondary schools. One concern raised in the discussions on the draft has been the loss of interest and motivation for students to study as a result of the abolition of the exams. Studies show that in the third grade, student motivation, learning interest and valorisation of learning decline considerably. Sadly, however, no study shows that only externally motivating can increase the interest or motivation of learners. Today's exams are exactly such an external motivator. There are already 10 to 15% of students who have completed comprehensive school without passing national comprehensive school finals. If the national exam fails, the re-examination can still be completed as a school examination and comprehensive school. For these students, it is already really the school that sets the conditions for graduation and also the corresponding bar. Although the national curriculum has for years been aiming to support the development of general and sectoral competences, the law in its current form does not allow for an interdisciplinary external assessment of learning outcomes, to approach external evaluation on a sectoral basis, and to include an assessment of general competences in external evaluation. The level work can only be carried out in a specific subject area on the basis of the law in force. Also, the current law does not allow the results of external evaluation of learning outcomes to be linked to the results of national surveys, which provide information on, for example, teaching, methodology, extracurricular experience and interest education, or, for example, the organisation of studies and the learning environment. I'm sure you've heard of a question, for example, about security, school talk, inclusion, satisfaction, or something like that. The draft, however, would create such opportunities. On the basis of the draft, it is possible to establish a system in which national tests allow for comparison and objective feedback in five areas: language and literature, mathematics, foreign language, nature and social. And so in all three levels of basic school, the emphasis is on giving feedback on sectoral goals, be it science literacy, resource-critical thinking or something like that. National substance tests are complemented by tools for assessing general competences. For example, first- and second-level learning and communication competences tests have already been completed, digital literacy tests have already been used for older school grades, and reading and numeracy tests, for example, are available for younger school grades from the beginning of next year. We would like to work together with each school to make an appropriate assessment plan throughout basic education, in which case the school would plan to carry out the necessary national tests in teaching for several years, so that we can finally start talking about the substantive role of external evaluation in managing the quality of teaching. Sampling-based testing will also be maintained to ensure national monitoring. At the end of the comprehensive school, all students will complete a national assessment of Estonian as their mother tongue or as a second language. It is also reasonable to assess their skills in mathematics on the basis of a universal sample of students when monitoring comprehensive school learning outcomes. According to the draft, before completing comprehensive school, all students will also pass a test to assess the fundamentals of the Constitution, the regime and the functioning of society of the Republic of Estonia and the knowledge of the rights and obligations of citizens. The changes concerning this test are based on the fact that the 16-year-olds are already electoral and need to know enough to exercise their right to vote. Adequate language skills and knowledge of the foundations of society provide an opportunity to apply for citizenship after completing the basic school examination and test without passing further examinations. The conditions for graduating from basic school are defined by the school as set out in the draft. This will still allow the school to use a summary assessment at the end of primary school. Questions have been raised during the implementation of the draft. The subjects and times of basic school examinations have already been established for this academic year and the preparation of the examinations has also been made. The Ministry of Education and Research also ensures the possibility of conducting examinations in the spring. However, the table always has the option of switching to the new system and giving up basic school examinations this year, while ensuring that national tests can be carried out in the form of proficiency tests in the ninth grade as well. It is therefore up to the Riigikogu to decide how the change will materialise.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U135	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The members of the Riigikogu can ask questions, two questions for two rapporteurs. First question, Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U136	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Predictability is generally considered to be very important in public administration. It seems to me that predictability in education should be particularly highly valued. However, at the beginning of September this year, the state put teachers in front of the ninth in ignorance of how these ninth graders would graduate. My question is whether it was a conscious decision to change the rules in the academic year or whether you were in a hurry. Why did you choose to violate this predicament principle so forcefully?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U137	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, thank you very much for yesterday's question. Thanks to the question you asked me yesterday, I got a little smarter on the different opinions. Coming to today's subject, it can be said that no, the country has made a very predictable move. As you know, there is a regulation on the organisation of national examinations, which is signed by the Minister, and it is signed, so in this sense, the examination times will be in place for the next four years. Yeah, it's all there. If, for example, the Riigikogu decides that it is ready to change the evaluation of the basic school, we are actually talking about changing the external evaluation system, then we can really go this new way at the end of the ninth grade. Take, for example, the same many discussed mathematics that we evaluate in grade 3, 6 and 9 on the basis of a 100% sample in a 100-ball system, receiving feedback from such a uniformly measurable learning path. This is more important to us than to evaluate only at the end of the ninth grade in June. In case we don't find it necessary at the end of the ninth grade, there are two options. One option is to tell the students that we do know that the comprehensive school final is pointless, but we will apply this system to you, for example, two years later. Why did we propose this draft with the option that let it remain the decision of the Riigikogu? We have both versions. One option is that the state has prepared that the final exam of the ninth grade will continue to take place in spring and may take place for several more years. The preparations have been made and Innove is ready for this. The second option, which also exists, is that in the ninth grade mathematics the 100-ball system evaluates the overall, 100% sample level work. Both versions exist, it is a decision of the Riigikogu. In any case, mathematics at the end of primary school evaluation takes place, just have to choose which way it is done. And the third option is to say yes, it will, but in three or six years, for example. All these options are on the table today, but I personally would prefer to switch to a complex new system in which mathematics is assessed not only in the ninth grade but throughout the course of study. But I see that there are so many questions that I'm very likely to be able to explain it over and over again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U138	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U139	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Minister! I think that you, like us, have received letters from a whole series of teachers' associations, who are, to say the least, very critical of this draft. In pointing out some of the critical points that concern teachers, it should first be mentioned that this draft was born in ministerial silence without discussing it with teachers. If the compulsory final exams are abolished, young people will not have the experience of taking the exam, but in later stages they will have to take the exams anyway. But what is perhaps the greatest concern for teachers is that if this bill becomes a law, there is a very high risk that educational stratification will increase. Schools that are weaker become even weaker. My question, Madam Minister, is this: why have you brought a bill before the Riigikogu, which most teachers do not support?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U140	Thank you for a good question. I dare confirm with full conviction, both from the polls and from the meetings, that the large majority will certainly support this draft and very strongly support it, because otherwise it would not have come this far. The content of this draft is not to lose final exams, but to make one method of assessment fundamentally different. Today, the state establishes a national curriculum, next it says that you will do the school curriculum on this basis, but as we all know in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, the school's room for the curriculum to decide for yourself is relatively narrow. Most of the study content is written by a national curriculum, especially in the lower two levels of comprehensive school. A small selection space has been left at the upper secondary school level. So actually, the country is very specific, and that's where our convergence school comes from. We're rather very strong writers, that's what young people say, and that's too much. The next question is what the state is doing in terms of evaluation. He's gonna tell us what our teachers are supposed to be at school. We impose rather strict qualification requirements on teachers and, as external evaluators, we go strictly to check whether the qualifications of teachers meet these requirements. It's our instrument of command. In terms of content, as in universities, for example, qualifications or faculty assessments, the following steps are no longer taken by the state in terms of content. And now they think it's not enough. We should also carry out a much more systematic analysis in terms of content, and that is why we offer that it would be better to apply constant monitoring of learning outcomes in primary school. Are we going to ensure a better school of convergence with this? Yeah, I'm sure of it. If we follow a child's course of study in the 3rd, 6th, and 9th grade, we will get some information in the process, for example, about how this young person is doing in the 3rd grade. Take mathematics, for example. We'll see how he's doing in third grade, we'll see how he's doing in sixth grade, and then we'll see how he's doing in ninth grade. According to this, we see his own development, and we also see how this school is doing. It is also important that those in Innoves and the Ministry of Education who are essentially involved in these tests can explain more about how schools are given feedback on what level this school or class is compared to other schools in the region or country. And on the basis of this feedback, it is possible to go to schools for practical advice during the external evaluation. That is our purpose. Whether or not the final exam is lost in all of this is actually a secondary issue. In the ninth grade, we're going to test anyway, because we can only test in the ninth grade, not in the eighth grade, because most of the learning outcomes can be chosen by the teacher, for example, whether he teaches geography in the 8th or 9th grade. Some of the substances end in the 8th, part in the 9th, part in the 7th. Since we've given this choice to schools for three years, we can't take the ninth grade test until 9th grade. Our proposal is that, since the ninth grade includes both the level work, the subject competence tests and the final exams and, in the meantime, the upper secondary school entrance exams, it is simply too much for children. Even though they're getting pretty big. I understand that there is a way in society that something disappears in mathematics, while in Estonian the exam or test remains, but that is not the goal. The aim is to replace the one-time assessment at the end of comprehensive school with a continuous process. Are we prepared fast enough or too slow enough? I believe that five years in education is enough time to say that tests are now in place and tested. And just as so many of you as parents know, these tests have already been tested in the third and sixth grade. We haven't done it in 9th, because so far, the 9th has had final exams. So in this sense, the preparation has been sufficient to implement the new method of assessment. And are there any obstacles to the amendment of the law today, in case we think about it longer? Yeah, we can't run tests beyond one substance. Today we experimented with mathematics, for example, and the feedback from the third grade of mathematics was such that the issues were broader than the curriculum. But they are in our minds, so that we can push it into national thinking. These questions must be cross-cutting and, at the end of comprehensive school, we would like them to be presented more complexly in real and natural subjects. Just as, for example, we are proud of our PISA issues, which are very substantive and subject-specific. Can we find some other compromise solutions with our teachers? I believe that clarification is needed, that what are the objectives, what will be the opportunities for schools, what the opportunities of the state will be and how these things will work together. With any change in the education system, perhaps the fear of change is the greatest fear and it is perfectly understandable. If something is changed in such a large system in principle as the external evaluation, the first reaction is the question 'Why? '. And it's very right that we ask. But I would say once again that this general denial does not mean a 'no' attitude for teachers, but rather that they want to understand what they want to do and why they want to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U141	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U142	Thank you. Madam Secretary! I have to admit, on a personal level, you did not convince me absolutely about the exams. I've been regularly appreciated for what you're talking about here with enthusiasm. But my personal triumph, however, was that you were in the final exams, and I proved to myself that I could concentrate, pull myself together. And I still remember what I did just because of the exams. But the personal level, of course, is not decisive. What I'm asking is, how did you get the situation that teachers or associations of subjects only sound like criticism? We haven't met them ourselves yet, but we'll meet. It still sounds like you're struggling to lose exams within the academic year without consulting others, and the teachers are puzzled. You say research proves this and the other, but the teachers don't know anything about research.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U143	Thank you. There's always a school year going on. This draft has been circulating at the level of the draft for the last year and a half and has always been in the middle of a school year, so there has been no rabbiation in this sense. During the summer, the Government of the Republic approved the draft with the aim of enabling it to be submitted to the Riigikogu during the summer period and then being able to decide on it. But no, I don't think there's been a lot of rabbi. According to the statistics known to me, the Riigikogu has three years to process the basic school and upper secondary school law, so there is plenty of time. We will come together here to understand what kind of external evaluation system we really want. The draft has offered a version. I understand that, between second and third readings, the Committee on Culture has decided to invite all professionals in the field, including the political groups, to have these opportunities. So I'm sure we can discuss this. Has there been a greater reaction in society because this bill reached the Riigikogu? Sure. Just as a good questioner remembers his ministerial term, no matter how much you prepare a draft, there are still different opinions, whether they are based on surveys or surveys. We have a great many good partners, including educational researchers, who support the current external evaluation system to be test-based learning process-based. I believe we have reached this point in our society, but we will see if this discussion needs more time in the Riigikogu. It is likely to be necessary to look calmly at whether the parties understand the objectives of the draft and whether there will be wider support for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U144	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, next question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U145	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I fully agree that such a country-wide standardised test is necessary for us to maintain a high-quality school of convergence on a national basis. And the fact that external evaluation takes place at all levels of school, not only at the end of primary school, is also important. But if we are thinking about the state's goals in research and development, in innovation, in the sense that we want to develop energy, wood chemistry and personal medicine, would it not be necessary to achieve a certain minimum level of mathematics skills at the end of basic school, for example, as you mentioned? Maybe the evaluation system might change, but the new evaluation tool or test that is being carried out at the end of comprehensive school should still be linked to the completion of primary school.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U146	Thank you for a very good question. What does the competence of a school at the end of comprehensive school mean to assess whether a child has completed basic school or not? As I dare remind you, basic education is our only compulsory education for all. This means that a young person, who can, of course, be objectively assessed only at the same school, has all completed the curriculum in more detail in the school curriculum, which, after all, is largely based on the study subjects prescribed by the national curriculum and passed them on at least a positive learning outcome and completed the course in accordance with the standard set for the school. However, for young people who, for example, are unable to do so due to their special needs, the country allows for an individual curriculum and may also culminate in completing basic education at the age of 17, for example. As we know, they say nine grades or seventeen years of age. In some cases, it is also allowed to apply for an extension of school so that basic education can be completed for one year longer, but it is still the school that assesses whether the student has all completed. To this end, he may use tests, tests, mid-term tests, written seminars and oral presentations, or outdoor training. We have given the schools the autonomy to decide on learning content, and we have also given them the right to assess how and what methodology to use. But what do we see at national level, precisely in relation to achieving this same convergence school? We want to come to the school to help if we can put it this way, who likes the word 'control' and say 'we go to school to check', who likes to say 'we go to school to help'. We want to see, nationally, how all schools are doing in different areas. In the case of mathematics, the sample will in any case remain absolute, so we're going to evaluate it in all schools. Now, from society's perspective, in addition to mathematics, there are really expectations of natural sciences: knowledge of physics, chemistry, biology and geography also needs to be assessed nationally. As we know, there has been no general testing of these subjects in comprehensive school. And with this same bill, we want to switch to a slightly wider or sectoral test area, we would like to reach social and natural tests in the ninth grade. There is also a willingness to do so. Innove specialists have visited and collaborated with both English and Finnish specialists to switch to subject-specific testing. At least those specialists who have been preparing this transition in Innoves for four to five years have a very clear vision and conviction that mathematical thinking would be broader in the field of subject matter with real and natural subjects and would give a better result, both in terms of young people's motivation for learning and feedback from teachers, as well as today's narrowly mathematical test. That is their firm conviction, and I will be able to convey it to you. The members of the Riigikogu make the final decision, but they have that conviction. And I also believe that on the teachers' side, this change may need a little more clarification. But yes, specialists, the university professionals' conviction is that this is the direction we have to go.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U147	Thank you. Tiit Kala, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is clear from the explanatory memorandum to the draft act that the Association of Estonian Cities and Municipalities has not coordinated this draft. The reason for this is the lack of motivation for students and the fact that the quality of students' knowledge of different subjects cannot be compared. How would you comment on these arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U149	What would you like me to say? The very first and most important change in this draft is that we are going to evaluate schools earlier than in the ninth grade. And as far as learning motivation is concerned, I believe that this subject may deserve a wider discussion. We could discuss it here in the Riigikogu. It should be a very deep educational philosophy discussion to see if learning motivation can be influenced from outside by the pressure of the exams. Well, here people have already given examples today of who have been motivated by the exam and who have not. However, I would like to believe that by this time, in addition to the motivation for the examination, the child has developed some other motives and goals in life, perhaps going to upper secondary school or continuing to pursue an area of interest or entering a specialty in vocational training. Cities and other local government units have a strong desire to follow a school of convergence. For both funding and feedback, the state cares about both smaller and larger schools. If you go to a single level, you will be given exactly the opposite views as feedback. Some of the school leaders who wrote us a very thorough analysis were very, very opposed to the number of tests being carried out, and this was reflected in the attitude of the local government. The other schools wrote that there were too few tests, which means that the exam would disappear. So he's a little different, isn't he? But the question of local government in general is whether uniform funding and uniform state control would help to maintain the school of convergence throughout Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U150	Thank you. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U151	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You're saying exams don't motivate students. I guess I've spent my whole life misconceptions, including my own. But it is certain that tests on which absolutely nothing depends, no leaving school, no way forward, do not motivate students even as much. And here's the question, what's the point of these tests anyway? Our students aren't stupid: if they know that the test results mean nothing, they won't bother learning either. Such tests do not give any insight into the school or the level of teaching; it is easier to look at the annual grade and cancel the tests. But what I would like to ask you now is how the tests that students perform at a free choice, without any motivation at any given time and more or less at any given time, will allow you to get an overview of the level of schools and the schools to be ranked according to the results, even if you can find out what to improve in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U152	Thank you. First of all, are the exams motivating or not motivating? I've seen young people taking high school entrance exams very seriously. But I may now try to remind the good members of the Riigikogu once again which exams we are talking about at the end of the comprehensive school. Estonian language, mathematics and selection examinations are currently required. These usually take place in June, when a young person has relatively clear plans for the future, and this is the case for those who make any choices. We also have about a few hundred young people in primary school who, before upper secondary school starts, do not know if they are going to go to vocational school or upper secondary school or what they are going to do at all. Fortunately, there are only about 200 of them in Estonia. Of all the rest of the cohorts, depending on the year of birth, the students have a clear majority of about 12,000, 13,000, 14,000, and a clear majority either take upper secondary school entrance exams or go to vocational school as a result of certain conversations or other tests, but in any case they make their choice. Of this 14000, 13000, only 200 are those who, in general, at the end of the summer do not know what they intend to do. Now, whether young people are the main motivator of the comprehensive school final exam in a situation where they already know where they're going. And secondly, the comprehensive school final is not an obstacle to leaving school today. If you don't pass the national exam at the end of the ninth grade, you'll be taking the school exam at your level the next day, so you'll be graduating from middle school anyway. If we are still convinced that these exams are somehow, I can't say very harsh or so, then I would remind you that the system has changed a lot in the last few decades. So in this sense, the final exam we are talking about is not a question of rejecting something, but of trying to convince the public to replace the one-time testing system by testing at the end of grades 3, 6 and 9. There'll be tests on the ninth. Do young people take their level papers seriously or do they not? Oh, they really do! We are still dealing with this at national level and very seriously. However, the attitude depends on school. We have now developed schools where children are trying to build confidence that these work is not important at all. Soothing messages are being sent to children to do all the usual things they've been doing. Rather, the opposite movement has developed so that children are well calm. But there's still anxiety issues, and there's still a problem with the kids getting to the doctor two days before the level job. So in this sense, the level work is still taken very seriously. I assure you, rather the state deals with all the time to calm down and say, 'Be good, dear schools and students, view testing so that we just want to see how far you have come. ' Is it working in any way or not? Yeah, I assure you, it's starting to work and pretty hard. As early as the first two years in grade 3 and 6 feedback shows us that the impact is great. We can see that regions and schools are drawing out where certain problems can be clearly seen. Let's just say we're ready to ask some questions about them. The state can, in essence, initially go to help as an advisor and it is possible to make national political choices that we have not actually made so far. There has never been any meaningful feedback in this form and level before. The reason why it is necessary to switch to harmonised examinations or tests in grade 3, 6 and 9 is that the years are very different and we cannot help the young person who leaves primary school, but we will be able to deal with him when the data collected in grade 3 and 6 shows that he has certain problems. Then we will be able to go to his aid before graduating from the ninth grade, already in the three years preceding that. But he is not such a question of religion that either the exam that is taken in the ninth grade after a young person has made all the choices, somehow motivates him or rather cares about the fact that there are national tests that will definitely affect his annual grade. I suspect young people are quite aware of how they get their annual awards.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U153	Thank you. Signe Stone, next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U154	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister, At least at meetings with teachers, I have been told that there are far greater problems in the education system than the exams. And as has been repeatedly noted in this Chamber today, a large number of letters have been received in all our mailboxes that do not support this bill. Today I counted, I have at least ten of them, and I didn't find any such letter that would have been warmly supported. You argued in the Committee on Culture that the Ministry has actually prepared this draft for more than four years and all the interest groups have been taken into account, but I would stress that it is the teachers' professional associations that have justified their opposition by not being involved. Where, then, is the truth: are they involved or not involved? And if it isn't, would you like to join me in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U155	Thank you, good questioner! If a person or group of substances, the association of substances feels that it is not sufficiently involved, then that is the case. Of course, there is no point in discussing it here. My best knowledge so far has been that all good specialists have been involved repeatedly and repeatedly in these years. But if they see that this is not the case in the context of this draft, then, of course, this situation still needs to be improved, improved. And, of course, all I can do to the Riigikogu is to apologize. You can discuss it in the Committee on Culture, and in parallel, work is likely to take place in the Ministry with the best specialists who are all asked what the greatest challenges are. Now, on the real-life side, really the first signal was this, I dare say, maybe about a few years ago, it ran through for the first time as the biggest news that basic school finals were going to disappear. It was the first version of the draft, a little bit in the same wording as today, and somehow it sounded like the mathematics exam, it's the biggest evil root, it's like it's disappearing. And really, a good questioner, I agree with you very much that it's not like math matters anymore. I dare say not all the authors of your letters, but I believe that many respond to the fear that the role of mathematics in society will be reduced. That fear is all that matters. But the fact that the exam is replaced by testing in grade 3, 6 and 9, the way this test is going to affect the annual grade, what the feedback will be, and how we consider it as an input when entering the upper secondary school, what are the chances of all these details in the titles? And in that sense, you or the authors of these letters are, of course, right. Since they have not received all this information because these details have not reached them, that is why this opposition. I also believe that the specialists of the real school, whom I have had the honour to consult, are deeply committed to saying that this is the right way to go, but that they need these details.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U156	Thank you. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mailis! I'm going to continue with the same sound and misunderstanding that you stopped at in your previous answer. We have a relatively unique situation in this Chamber and, in fact, in the Committee on Culture and in the political groups. To date, this draft has been available in the Commission for about one week and we have had some meetings with you during this week. In the light of these meetings, a lot of things have become clearer, but so many things have become more confusing. And why? Because the original text of this law doesn't contain the many points of question that you've given in this remote control today. Every day, the original text of the Law adds to the oral supplement. And I think that this is a very big problem, both from the perspective of these associations of subjects and from the perspective of all kinds of interest groups and, in fact, from the perspective of the political groups. Then why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U158	Thank you, good questioner! We tried to get an answer to that question in the Ministry of Education and Science in a pretty big circle last night. What is the reason why these questions and answers or expectations have changed so much? And I have to make such a very brief summary here. Perhaps the moment this bill was prepared, it was widely understood that the most important issue was whether or not the basic school exam was or is not. A lot of questions came up about why we need this dubious exam. As you will remember, about four years ago, the subject of the upper secondary school threshold was discussed and how national exams could be conducted to attend upper secondary school. And the basic school exams were somehow more in the picture. Today, it has become clearly more substantive and, in fact, there is more talk about external evaluation and the final exam of basic school than such is not so much a focus anymore. But as the original text of the bill, it has been very much left to focus on the comprehensive school final. Now, have the answers been sufficient? Perhaps such subjects as the learner's motivation, learning approaches, the self-management of a young person, which many of you are familiar with, seemed a little early for the initiator of the draft to be included in the draft. They didn't want to get so complicated, they went a little easier. I guess I have to admit, we were wrong then. Perhaps the draft should have been more focused on a new approach to learning, because that is actually the real aim.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U159	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now we're gonna have to discuss this a little bit. It is quite clear that whoever is watching this screen will understand that the discussion of this topic cannot be exhausted in any way within one o'clock, or in the next 15 minutes. There are a variety of ideas about what to do now, and one thought is this. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party proposes to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock, and if we do not exhaust the subject by then, we will proceed tomorrow on where we left off. So if you do not object and who dares to object to the President, I will put this matter to the vote, with the vote being that twice as many votes in favour as there is to be against. It's a simple number, not a membership number. In short, if we all vote and if twice as many people decide that we will continue until 2:00, we will continue until 2:00, and if we decide not to proceed, we will discuss it until 1:00 today and we will proceed tomorrow at the beginning of the sitting. So that's the story! I will call and put this matter to the vote. All right, honorables! Two minutes have been used to prepare for the vote, and I will vote on the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock, i.e. in Estonian until 2 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. The vote is closed. The complex mathematical calculation shows that the sides are much more than opposed. Consequently, the Riigikogu decided to extend the session until the agenda was exhausted, but no more than two o'clock. I would like to ask the Minister, who may have had a bit of a breather, again to the remote. And the first question is Priit onion. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U160	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. We discussed the same subject in the Isamaa Group this morning and, as you have seen, as in society at large, our group had very different opinions. But I have a question. Well, there were those who are so-called hot supporters of the exams and think that this is the way forward, but if I listened to you in the group this morning and listen to you now in this Chamber, do I get it right that the most important nuance for graduating from primary school is that we are not talking about grade 3 and 6 there, these tests already work there, is that we are basically renaming the comprehensive school final exam, which today is a subject-based exam. I understand that it is a desire to do tests simply across substances and 'complexly' and that this is the biggest and most profound amendment of this draft and that it cannot be done without amending the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U161	Thank you. Yeah, well, you can't run tests beyond the subject area in grade 3 or 6 either, so we have to stay at the heart of one substance. And what is relatively tedious for schools, we must not include these other polls, such as a survey of satisfaction or a survey of schoolistics, in the subject tests. These have to be done separately, and this is what schools really don't want at all. We do many and many things, and once again they have to gather all their children together, usually in computer class. The other thing is that at the end of the ninth grade, the exam won't go away. There has actually been a lot of talk here today about mathematics, but one of the conditions for graduating from basic school, in addition to Estonian language and mathematics, which are still included in the 100% sample tests, is also an obligation to take a sample examination. Yeah, it has to be, schools have to arrange it anyway, and it doesn't go away. The 100% sample for mathematics remains, and I dare not accept the opinion that young people do not take this test very seriously. They will! And, for example, the feedback received from parents on how much after high-sampling level work parents have protests, questions, additional details, and the extent to which schools have such disputes with the Ministry shows that the level work is actually taken very seriously. So, yes, these two things may be the biggest changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U162	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U163	Thank you. As a liberal conservative, I take very cautiously all kinds of reforms, especially in the area of pedagogy. On the other hand, my own experience has been very positive for the exam because I was among those lazy sausages who did not bother to study, but who prepared and put themselves together for the exam. But my 45-year-old pedagogical experience at various levels forces me quite firmly to support this bill, including this point relating to the elimination of problematic exams. There's talk of student stress, but for me, there's another more important thing. Teachers consciously mean, usually unconsciously, but sometimes consciously, preparing students for the exam rather than for the subject. And this is a very important problem. Have you ever made such an argument?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U164	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much for your support. And secondly, yes, according to these same level papers and changes in the state exams, we see how the treatment of one substance or another has changed. In many respects, in addition to the curriculum, the course is based on what is asked for in the exam. So, obviously, teachers, more indirectly, parents are still preparing children for the exam. What you're asking is what you're generally preparing for. So the transition to wider testing has taken into account that if we want to bring about any change in the school system, we can do this in part by complementing the teaching tools, to a very large extent also through teacher training and teacher support. But one factor is also what we ask for nationally and through which we give feedback. So, yes, certain changes to the tests will also have an impact. One of the things we saw when we changed the organisation of the upper secondary school exams is that we have a very clear understanding in society of what are important subjects and what are irrelevant. And it's assessed by whether or not the state is conducting exams in these subjects. This is also one of the reasons why we have proposed with this draft the possibility of public level work being carried out in all areas of matter in principle. It is precisely to give the school a signal that the state does not think that mathematics or Estonian or foreign language is the only subjects that matter. No, we think that social subjects, humanitarians, reals and naturals all together are important. Through this, we will certainly also influence certain learning processes, and it will be assessed in the polls. For example, when we started conducting polls on the evaluation of schoolistic origins, some schools that had not dealt with the subject before also began to take an interest in the matter. For example, if one school shows that about 30% of children have been directly exposed to it and 70% in the other school, we have probably asked the school if they have been involved. It could be one way or the other, right? So, yeah, that's how we influence certain processes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U165	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The coordination circle of this draft has been tight, but it exists. The Estonian School Leaders' Association says that they are not opposed to losing exams, but they also stress that the law needs to set a limit for tests and that the subject of samples must also be regulated by law. Here is an example where 1676 children had been sampled in the mathematics the previous year, but in fact almost five times more children had to attend. Could you please comment a little bit on this sample issue? If we say that this test is so good and necessary, can it happen that a whole number of children will still be excluded because there is a sample? And what do you think about this regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U167	Thank you. The school leaders really thought there would be too many tests. Well, we are a little bit between two mutual expectations: on the one hand, they want the country to be more closely monitored and constantly analysed, and on the other hand, they say that it is too much. So school leaders actually want to regulate. For this reason, with the agreement of the school leaders, there was such a suggestion that the schools themselves can tell what subject area we have, right, Estonian language and mathematics they would like to be the main election. But we also have social and humanitarian subjects. In any case, the level work must reach the school within three years, but the school does not have to take all the drugs every year. The sample has so far been exactly as you rightly said, that it is 1600. This is optimal given the number of Estonian children of this age. And as always in the case of samples, large and small, rural and urban, Estonian and Russian schools are taken into them. The reason why the actual number is much higher is that a very large number of schools come along as volunteers. And indeed, for example, mathematics participated in this year in most schools. The difference is that those in the compulsory sample were directly connected to the country at the time, while others did the levelwork day later. But that 5,000 really came up there. Now, what would we offer? Yes, of course, the state could regulate it, for example, to say that there is a sample of 100% in basic subjects, that is to say that everyone has to do the levelwork, or then make it possible to choose what is in the draft today. According to this, the school itself informs the ministry of its plan, and once it has been announced, it is compulsory for it to do the levelwork. So maybe the school's gonna pick up the classwork and have to go through it all in three years, the school's gonna regulate it, and then he won't be able to change his plan. This is what is proposed in the draft today, but if the Riigikogu thinks that it should, for example, be set by a sample of 100% or otherwise, it is also possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U168	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U169	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Obviously, we have a curriculum established by the state and the country should have the opportunity to monitor how this curriculum is completed and what the results are. As you say, to help schools. Now, when I read about this bill that the conditions for graduating from comprehensive school are set by the school, I wonder that if the school sets the conditions and takes its exams, which are not comparable to each other, because in that case, schools have the autonomy to take their exams as they see fit in accordance with the national curriculum, do you think that this will reveal something to the state and will the data be analyzed in a consistent way?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U170	Oh, I'm gonna try and start this way. First of all, however, the state regulates it in the curriculum and the conditions for graduating from school have been broadly established at the level of the Minister's regulation. It is that in which subjects the grades may be incomplete and several of them may be present, and it has also been said that the curriculum has been completed when most of the results are at least satisfactory. But school still has a limp here, yeah. For example, we have been told that research must have been done during the seventh, eighth, ninth grade. The school says it does it in this form and at this age, a part does it in the 7th and the part in the 8th grade. Yes, the school has certain decision-making powers here, but it is still relatively limited. In the opinion of alert school leaders, it could be much, much bigger. The school may also want to carry out brief tests, for example, some subject teachers are very fond of them and do a major test for the semester, etc. And then the teacher does a basically great test instead, for example, some still arrange oral tests or test subjects with old school-type tickets. Whether it's called a school exam is basically up to the school. No, he won't let the country know anything. We cannot rely on this, for example, in upper secondary schools, and today 46% of all upper secondary schools do their own tests. Some do them at a much higher level than the syllabus provides, for example, let's take the same mathematics, and take a very large sample. The reason is that schools want to know which young people are able to go to the real world. It's not that a student can't get into a gymnasium at all, but from 40 points, for example, it's said that maybe don't go so intensively to the real subjects. This data is not the basis for the State either. We say it, we know it. And it is now proposed that Innove be prepared to carry out national entrance tests, should there be any interest in it. The exam center has said that they have already started preparing tests for some upper secondary schools. But such a test is not mandatory for schools, but is one way of ensuring that the test is a little more harmonised and that young people have some idea of what they really want. Young people's criticism of entering upper secondary school is that the requirements are well individualized, everything depends on upper secondary school and the requirements are not announced in advance. There has been a lot of talk here today that a young person should know the requirements in advance, but they don't really know. All we know is that in addition to tests, a large number of upper secondary schools also have personal motivational conversations and chooses to do so in many ways. So we're not getting the kind of feedback we're getting through the level papers. However, through the work of the level, we can get national information for monitoring purposes. Once again, if, for example, there are any movements at school that differ from the average, we can go with the inspectors, we can ask if there are any problems with the teacher's qualifications or vice versa. Maybe there is a very high proportion of children with special needs, maybe we can support them differently. Let us see if the measures have been implemented. So different approaches are possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U171	Thank you. Annely Akkerkmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U172	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. Your explanation gives the impression that the obligation to attend school is primarily the responsibility of teachers to attend school. The external evaluation, in the form of the tests you are talking about, is still the control of teachers in particular. A colleague here said that his concern was that teachers were teaching the subject instead of passing the exams or preparing students for the exams. Believe me, what you're measuring is what you'll get from now on the teachers will start preparing the students for these tests. However, when I was head of the local government for a number of years, as a schoolmaster, we learned that our school was not good because two graduates were unable to complete national final exams taken out of the envelope. If we lose them now, the results of the tests may be intellectually interesting, but the schoolgirl and the parent still don't know how her child has gone compared to the other 9th graders in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U173	Thank you, good questioner! I guess that information hasn't been enough. How's this ninth grade level work really gonna be? For example, you're doing a 9th grade level job. So far, you got some results on the state exam. In the future, if the Riigikogu should support it, the readiness is already in 2020 the level work in the 100-ball system, not the assessment of one, two, three, four, five. This is a 100-ball system and you not only receive feedback that you got 36 points, but also feedback on how your 36 points are compared to the results in this region, for example, in Pärnu County. You can analyze the results for example in Pärnumaa versus Harjumaa, it can be done by the school and it can actually be viewed by the parent. And more importantly, you'll find out the average of the Republic, and this curve will also draw a picture of whether you're in good shape, medium or rather poor compared to your 36%. Are we talking about assessing teachers? In an indirect sense, the teacher always feels responsible. This is the charm and pain of our education system, and that is why the issue of teachers' mental health is very important. But, of course, the primary responsibility is for the young themselves. The whole point of this change is that our young people understand that they are responsible for their way of learning. We still have a lot to go. First they study for their parents and then they study, I don't know, for a friend, then they study for exams and get into college somewhere. But what we really expect and hope is for a young person to take control of himself. So that's the expectations. But yes, the feedback is that you can compare your results to those of the entire republic or your region. Young people or the whole class can be analyzed on curves; in data processing, this capacity exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U174	Jürgen Ligi, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U175	Thank you. This is basically about a major confrontation on the subject of the exam. Mysteriously, how could you create it like this without talking and rushing through it? But it is even more mysterious how such a law is linked to the Citizenship Act, which is the so-called 51 vote bill. Yesterday you received Mart Helme to defend the citizenship policy of the Centre Party, according to which, without exams, a Russian immigrant will become Estonian citizens. Now, about this bill. It would have been natural for this whole amendment to be in one law, but some of it has been stuffed with the basic school and upper secondary school law. You don't understand the text exactly what they mean. Please open it! This can decide the fate of the whole bill, because it was cut yesterday that it was not supported for that reason. How did you achieve such a confusing text and a confusing procedure with the Citizenship Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U176	Levelwork has been taken among teachers, not as a punishment, but as a support mechanism. And as a result of this faith, for several years, the Ministry of Education and Research has been given the possibility that this was already the case when the questioner had the honour to be in this house with signals that basic education in social studies should have a harmonised national approach and could be harmonised testing. It is a signal that if there is a national test in one area, then efforts must be made to do so. Just as one of the questioners here already said, "What you're asking, you'll get it." In order to have a state test in social studies, this expectation has existed since the Riigikogu decided to give voting rights to 16-year-olds in elections. And that's what it's been quietly working on here. How does it fit into the citizenship law? When young people complete comprehensive school under the current Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and Citizenship Act, as the good questioner knows, they do not have to take two Estonian language exams, but their comprehensive school final exams are taken as an Estonian language exam required by the citizenship exam. When we started preparing this draft, it became very clear very quickly that this principle of discontinuing the duplicate exam could also be included in the new draft, so this citizenship law came up here. Since this bill also included a broad-based test of social studies, it expands. We do not change the Citizenship Act as such in principle, expectations and requirements remain in force. However, since we are bringing up one of the social studies tests and making an amendment concerning the Estonian language examination at the end of the comprehensive school, it is also necessary to clarify the issue of citizenship. There will be no revolutionary possibility of extending citizenship. And I would also like to assure you here that, as regards citizenship, which young people can do at the end of comprehensive school anyway, 5 to 7 young people every year do so, this exam compared to the social education exam that all young people who apply for citizenship, as well as other students in Estonian schools who already have citizenship at birth, is more complicated than the minimum citizenship exam that we are now demanding from new citizens. So we don't lighten the conditions for citizenship, we don't create any new ways to do that. The option that currently exists in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Citizenship Act when you graduate from comprehensive school can be transferred to the process of applying for citizenship. Since the text of the social studies is coming up, we are creating the same parallel as was still the case with the Estonian language exam. If the student has received at least 75 points on the social studies exam, he or she does not need to take a double exam. Just to introduce this parallel, this regulation has been changed. The fundamental change concerning citizenship was discussed by you yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U177	Thank you. Alar Laneman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about middle school. I've been lucky to see this exam thing as both a learner and a teacher. And that brings me a little concern about whether I can go home this weekend because my husband has taken a very clear view of how this should not go. But aside from the joke, I would say briefly that the diagnosis here is as correct, but in my opinion, the measures do not coincide with the diagnosis at times. We're talking about the timing of the exams, we want to give up duplication, like, but there might be other solutions. We're saying there's a lot of stress, but we'll add it to the tests. I'm actually an exam believer because a young person has more and more of them alive. On the basis of this debate, who else would you like to involve in the improvement of the draft? Is there anyone left behind?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U179	First of all, I hope that, as a result of this debate, not only in this Chamber today, but also in the political groups and in the Committee on Culture, there will also be those teachers who are quite clear about the feedback they receive from the level work. Perhaps they can come and explain what feedback they receive and how, thanks to such changes, they can better assess their work, how they can gain more confidence by interacting with informed parents that one or the other methodical decision has been the right one. This is the kind of feedback we receive from our teachers. I dare advise you that when you go home today, explain the matter so that we do not lose the state exams, but the Riigikogu analyses very seriously whether to replace the mathematics exam in the ninth grade with major competence tests in the subject area. If this is to be explained calmly with specialists, perhaps to show what it is like, then perhaps the notion that we are actually not taking away anything, but replacing one system with another will arrive. I have been asked quite a few times today whether one system will be replaced by another and whether we can leave both. You can't really. At the end of middle school, in the ninth grade, we can say, for example, to bring the math exam a little bit forward and take it to 100 balls. It can be done, and it's like it's a graduation gift. We can't put in any other polls that we might really want to do. We wish there weren't 100 polls a year at school. We can't make a wider change right now, it's a continuous process. Perhaps these are the greatest changes, but I dare say today that if the science teachers think about them calmly, they will understand what their purpose is. We're not reducing the weight of mathematics, we're increasing it. I very much hope that during this period, when we process this bill, their attitude will change.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U180	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! A good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, may have referred to the fact that if the changes that the government is currently implementing by amending both the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Citizenship Act, Estonian citizenship can be obtained without any examination or test. It just doesn't have to be done. But my question is driven by your own answers, I still don't understand it. One question is that if we have a compulsory primary school, I think it would be elementary that the state wants clear feedback. You have, as one of the reasons why the current regime needs to be changed, brought that upper secondary schools will take their exams first and the motivation that will remain by then will be close to zero or very weak. I have a question about who's running this country. Is it the responsibility of the state or is it the responsibility of the municipal schools? In my opinion, in fact, it should be harmonised, negotiated and tested together that suits everyone. At the moment, it seems as if the school is gaining strength and can take this test according to its own wishes. But the country's ability to compare with national and international standards is actually decreasing. In my opinion, one quality feature is that we can compare the same things.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U182	I guess I haven't been a good explainer. I'll try again. In fact, the level work is organised nationally. The state gives it on paper, for example, in mathematics. These are sealed envelopes. The Estonian language and social studies exam is also accompanied by observers, the control is state-owned, the state controls schools. In this sense, the decision-making level of the school is minimal in the case of level work or, let's say, national tests. We hope that data will now come in coded form and all data can be viewed separately, but can only be viewed within the limits for which the permit is granted. For example, a parent sees his child as compared to other certain children, a teacher sees his class, a schoolmaster sees his school, but he also sees comparison data statistically. Since these are all sensitive personal data, they are only seen to a certain extent. But it's all national, and it's also national. So in that sense, it's a national system. If the school, for example, wants to do some major tests, then we will not ban it. You had a question about high school. A good questioner remembers that about three years ago we discussed a procedure in questioning and questioning whether the state would be prepared to introduce tests for entering secondary school. There was talk of a threshold and country-wide harmonised tests for entering upper secondary school. Then society had a clear message of 'no'. The very clear message was that you should not choose students so strongly in upper secondary school. Upper secondary school is the choice of each young person, one of the possible. Is Innovel prepared to help national upper secondary schools perform tests? But that's a very big difference. Right now, the high school wants to get to the top of the high school. The tests will be carried out according to this. Or maybe they want to base themselves on an absolute national minimum, they want to see if basic school has been passed at least to this minimum. At present, the final examination of comprehensive school is rather an assessment of the national minimum or national standard. This means that if a young person accidentally tells me about his experience, for example, does the entrance tests in March and gets 70 points there, for example, having passed very complicated tests, then he can get an absolute maximum at the end of comprehensive school because the upper secondary school regulates it, he wants to get his peaks. In some other subject, maybe the school wants to get to the top of some other subject. So do we want to go national and limit it all or make the tests national? I'm afraid this feedback would be very, very different. If we think about how different our school network is, how different our students are, then the state would certainly not want to say that certain substances have to get much more complicated, because the peak is going to be oriented immediately. Therefore, the feeling must be increased, somewhere more emphasis must be placed on the same discussion that we have had. According to the top, general tests cannot be prepared, but there are, of course, selection tests in upper secondary schools, just as they are done at the university. One can be the broader academic thresholds that the university does, saying that this is our absolute minimum, which you must all exceed. Different areas of the subject make a particularly difficult test to find peaks in their field. But that doesn't mean that if a young person didn't pass that test, he can't enter the secondary school. In another area, he can be very good. It's the same with high school admissions. Upper secondary school already has a lot of electives, there are different learning pathways. That's why we're promising to do a much more complex test than this absolute minimum test. In the case of a citizenship examination, I assure you, it is not only necessary to pass it. It's not like I went in and took a class. The Estonian language exam has a threshold of 60 points and a citizenship or social studies exam of 75 points. These are very high thresholds in order to allow the examination to be accepted when granting citizenship. Young people can also complete by two points, but for citizenship, the minimum requirement is 60 points equivalent to the B1 language examination and 75 points on the citizenship exam. Very high thresholds, and they're written in the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U183	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U184	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! One of the objectives of education is to give an understanding of democracy, participation in society, to teach to be an active member of society. From the point of view of the rights of the child, as adults, we have a duty to involve children in processes that will certainly affect them. And here's my question. I believe in young people and that they can appreciate things about their lives. Please tell me, who, when and how did student associations or even students come with them to amend the basic school and upper secondary school law? If so, what have been the views of children or young people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U185	Thank you. In addition to being very active at all and still attending various events with the Minister, the student representation association is the main carrier in a connection such as the Student Advisory Board. The Student Advisory Board meets with the Minister on a quarterly basis. The subject of the final exams has been on the table for almost every quarter for the last two years. The view of young people has been that any change must be justified and they want to understand clearly what awaits them. And they don't like duplicate duties. In view of the active associations of student representatives, they are obviously very busy with rather complex entrance tests. And they say they don't want double exams. Their ideal is to have the same upper secondary school entrance tests throughout the country instead of a comprehensive school graduation exam. But as I said, we have certain reefs, why hasn't it happened so far? We have given our readiness through Innove to prepare national tests, but as such an absolute minimum in society, this support has not existed. At present, fewer young people graduate from primary school every year. There are more places to study, and that means that in fact, every graduate of a basic school has some kind of next degree insured, so it's in a vocational school, it's in upper secondary school, it's as an apprentice, i.e. they go to work and get an education alongside it. In any case, everyone has a chance. And so not everyone is motivated to take this most difficult test. And if we were to demand it from everyone, that feedback would be, yeah, quite different. But the opinion of young people is that they do not support duplicate exams.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U186	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'll come back to this sample issue one more time. You gave a very good answer, but still, these'material competence tests'. Am I right to understand that, according to this draft, it is as if the situation remains that if a student gets to a certain sample, it will give the heads of the educational process an overview where they are taught well and where they are poorly? It's like one side. But the other side is that every kid can test himself as an individual and he and his family can understand the position he's in. There is no such situation as for all children to be able to participate in the competence tests in the field of subject matter. And one small supplementary question: would you put this draft in an international context, especially in comparison with Singapore and Finland, for example, if that is possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U188	Thank you. Starting with the second part of the question: Singapore is a country of testing, just as this whole part of Asia is. They've developed a lot of national tests. In addition to all examinations and midterms, they also assess teachers and school leaders through testing. A little of that comes from their cultural background. And they told me very clearly that if it was necessary to choose one of the 10,000, how to choose another way. It's just that they don't have this situation like we do, that every kid gets some kind of education anyway, that every teacher has our value. If only we had more! According to our bill, the school decides how to participate, but everyone has to go through all areas in three years. Is it possible in the case of a child that he never takes a single test? No, it can't be. We have discussed the matter and the Estonian language has already passed through this sieve: everyone said that the test of the Estonian language must be done by everyone anyway. It is now under discussion whether mathematics must definitely be in the sample and whether there is another area in which the school has no choice. According to the bill, all substances other than Estonian are such that the school chooses them itself in the course of the three years, making sure that there are not too many tests. Otherwise, the student may have two tests in the fall, then according to the law, it will be a month apart, and then there will be other tests. If everyone does everything, an unhappy child would normally take five or six tests, for example, in grade 3 or 6 or in grade 9. And it's too much. We want them to pick at most three, and the choice of the school would be a little in advance. But the Estonian language remains 100%. But, of course, once again: if the Riigikogu thinks that we want everyone to be elected, for example, in some years, or some cohorts are 100% in the election, then this is definitely an option. This must be laid down either at the level of the law or at the level of the regulation. At the moment, we have offered that, apart from Estonian, all the remaining subjects are in a cycle that the school can plan for itself. And once again, what you mentioned earlier is very correct. I, too, have received feedback that schools rather want to participate more. They have now seen in the first two years how much feedback they actually get from the tests. For example, in the first year it was 3000, now it's already 5000 and it's a growing trend. In reality, it is likely that everyone wants to participate in most of the tests.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U189	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. By the way, I hear a lot of 9th graders are listening to this broadcast here to find out what the future holds for them. And they certainly deserve respect, a specific, clear message, as do teachers. I come back to my last question. You agreed with me when I said that the original text of this legislative amendment has received so much oral addition in just one week that some points in the original version no longer apply or need to be understood differently because there have been inconsistencies. Why do we necessarily need a legislative amendment that does not have the original text correlated with the information we have gained this week? Education in all its effectiveness deserves one clear change of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U190	Thank you. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U191	Thank you. First of all, as an extremely strong supporter in this area myself, I also think that, of course, we deserve a new basic school law. We also know the dream that we could have a basic school and secondary education law separately. It's enough that we're talking about basic school and upper secondary school and vocational education as if they're some kind of separate worlds. In the previous Riigikogu we reached the Code of Higher Education, which combined the provisions of private schools, general higher education provisions and university provisions. Perhaps we failed to harmonise in some respects, for example in the management of schools and in some other matters, but in general we got harmonised. In upper secondary and vocational education there could be much more flexible learning pathways; we have talked about this here. So, of course, we deserve separate laws. But as long as we have not reached you with the new draft, which we know will take, on average, three or four years, I humbly ask, however, to amend the basic school and upper secondary school law in the meantime, at least in terms of external evaluation. But the ideas that could be changed and improved are still, because times have changed. Is Education Needed a Revolution? Absolutely not. But there are certain changes in our society. Our expectations have changed, our content has changed. So, yes, certain improvements are needed. If some of the provisions here are not worded in such a way that it is sufficiently understandable, then, of course, amendments can be tabled between second and third readings. There have always been a lot of proposals to amend the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, and there will certainly also be now. This bill is on the table, and we'll see.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U192	Thank you. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U193	Thank you. Good minister! In addition to being a minister, you are also a leading politician of the Centre Party and I would like to hear your position on this issue that was put forward by Jürgen Ligi. I was actually moved to ask for the answer you gave to Jürgen Near. Yesterday, when Minister Helme and I discussed the draft amendment to the Citizenship Act together, I did not understand whether he deliberately confused or simply did not want to admit that he was implementing the null variant of citizenship advocated by the Central Party. What am I talking about? I am talking about bill 58, which is a draft law amending the Citizenship Act and wants to amend § 13 of the law on granting citizenship to minors. It is proposed to give Estonian citizenship to minors in a simplified manner. This bill does not say a word that, in addition to being an older child with a grey passport, the child must speak Estonian and have taken the citizenship exam. Now you're talking about this exam being taken, and this test is very high. Tell me, why does this child need to take this language examination or citizenship examination when he or she has already obtained citizenship as a minor by means of a simplified procedure? Where does that make sense? Don't you see the contradiction between the two laws here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U194	Thank you. To comment briefly on what Mr Helme said, I must say that so far society has resented him for not being dimmed and saying things too clearly. So far, he hasn't been compromised, I think he's pretty straightforward. These two drafts are still different. However, we define these minors by their parents. We don't count the place of birth, we have the basic birth citizenship. This bill, which could be discussed here in the Riigikogu yesterday, concerns children whose parents have at least one grey passport. Plus, there's this time dimension, 1991. The draft law we are discussing today does not mention at all the citizenship of parents. If children have completed a basic education in Estonia, learned Estonian language and passed the social studies exam, they will be able to apply for Estonian citizenship in accordance with the Citizenship Act. This is not a simplified procedure. And as we know, the Citizenship Act applies to these children, if they apply for Estonian citizenship, to the condition that they are not nationals of a third country. This is a matter of principle: it is not possible to apply simplified procedures; the requirement for an examination of Estonian language and citizenship must be met. It's just that you do all this in middle school and don't have to do it again as an adult as part of a citizenship exam. It is read that you have met these requirements, that this readiness sits on your shelf as a package and waits. The Citizenship Act provides for a condition that you cannot be a third-country national. You will submit the application and the application must show that you have renounced third country citizenship at the time of implementation. Generally, under Estonian conditions, the parents of a young person can be both Russian citizens or citizens of, for example, Ukraine or Armenia. He will pass the Estonian language exam at Estonian school and pass the Social Studies exam at Estonian school, which is just part of our curriculum. If he has done both of these, if he has exceeded the threshold of 60 and 75 points, these are very high thresholds, then he has recorded these achievements. He then waits for him to get old enough to be able to apply for citizenship, then he submits a document that he has given up the citizenship of another country and will become an Estonian citizen. It is a functioning system, there is nothing simplified here, there is nothing privileged here, and nothing easier for these young people has been done with the draft that I am defending here at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U195	Thank you. Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U196	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! This change is rather revolutionary, the exams have always been like this classic. I hope that this debate here in the Riigikogu will be very broad and thorough, considered, and that interest groups will also be involved, one of whom is the subject teachers who have also addressed us, the EKRE educational panel and directly to me. The students, on the other hand, are happy, with two girls in my home getting easier. So there are all kinds of points of view. It is good that the Estonian language exam remains. But I have a question about math. Immanuel Kant has said that there is as much science in science as there is mathematics in it. Can we save the math exam?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U197	Good questioner! Basically, with a 100% sample of both Estonian and mathematics, we can rename the 9th grade national test as an exam. The political idea of the state is either to test what it acquires in these subjects. Either we call it the final exam and it's in June or the end of May, or we call it a 100% sample test. Now the question is whether a young person gets easier or not. Well, it doesn't make it any easier to graduate from middle school, but you still have to take that test. The attitude in schools is certainly different. We also see this in the work of excellence. Are you studying or not? Well, they do, of course they do! It's not like the students are just going to go and solve a problem. I believe your family's children will also learn for a test or a test, and they will learn from the heart. I'm sure it depends on the situation. Is it possible to save mathematics? Yeah, absolutely. I think that the mathematics 100% sample exam in the 3rd, 6th and 9th grade should, once we have thought it through together, also give the subject teachers confidence that mathematics will not disappear from the picture. On the contrary, this substance comes in much more pictures. Physics and chemistry teachers have also been concerned that the focus on science is decreasing, but that the competence tests in the field of science are also confirmed. After all, the tests are being prepared by active teachers, and I dare say that they are still put together with the best knowledge.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U198	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I'm trying to understand you and express myself more clearly. On the one hand, the students have said they wouldn't want to be double-checked. We could save time and be rational at all. At the same time, we see that universities book places for upper secondary school graduates who have gone to the Olympics and achieved good places there, they already have the opportunity to study further. Tallinn schools have assembled their heads and prepared joint tests. Here's my question. If, on the one hand, there is a need to test the minimum level and, on the other hand, to find out about the peak level, is it possible to find a methodology where all of this is considered as a whole so that no one feels bad? Has this been mentioned? There would be one test, and it could be selected, which is a vertex with a minimum knowledge. Personalisation would take place after this test. Maybe you could put the brains of high schools and the brains of the country together and make one of those controls. Whether we call it an exam or a test, I think it's secondary.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U200	Yes, I agree with you absolutely, one hundred percent. The tests allow these samples to be selected and there should perhaps be more and more agreements such as those currently concluded between the six schools in Tallinn. There have also been discussions in Tartu about how to get to upper secondary school more evenly. That's what young people want. In this sense, your information is absolutely correct. Now, how much such national analysis or testing is used for external evaluation? A lot. This year alone, 9,000 students have registered for a totally voluntary science level work through schools. It actually shows that we're very much a test believer. Teachers want feedback, schools want feedback. If there is more confidence in trusting a single national test when entering high school, then that would be very good. Well, maybe some level work will develop this kind of thing at some point. I simply did not even dare to offer it in the draft, given what happened three years ago with one proposal. Society wasn't ready for that. Maybe it will. Let's see. The Riigikogu also has new opportunities. We, as a country, have given a message through both Innove and the Ministry that we are prepared to cooperate, also in preparing the entrance tests. This is certainly possible in cooperation with schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U201	Thank you. Jack White, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U202	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I have never been visited by such a suspicion that we do not care together about the quality of Estonian general education. And obviously, we all see the problem that our education system is not sufficiently prepared for the people of the specializations necessary for society. I understand this way that the Ministry is welcomingly working on these issues and preparing a new bill or drafts that regulate comprehensively basic, vocational and upper secondary school education. Here's my question. Would it not, however, be better to rush ahead with this new bill or with the new drafts and the amendments to the examination proposed in this draft? These could be enforced along with other changes and can be resolved in this new law, and precisely systematically.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U203	Thanks, that's a great idea. Unfortunately, my experience in education policy is that over the last 15 years we have not been able to implement this fundamental change in life, that basic school and upper secondary school are in separate laws. Therefore, if possible, I would not want to put an end to this whole external evaluation process for years. Quite a few ministers have come to this lovely Riigikogu remote control and made promises. Some very powerful personalities have been on the remote and said there will be a new bill in a year. Hasn't come yet. Why? It's such a matter of principle. For example, we must answer questions about shared responsibility. I think that your party also raises a serious question as to whether upper secondary school education is a municipal level or a state level and how it should be carried forward. As we know, there have been times when upper secondary school money was supposed to be on a separate line, but we know that upper secondary schools are quite small in some places and there is a question of whether upper secondary school is just a preparation for university. But three years of general education is a good solution for the average child, he continues his studies. There are a lot of questions between the division and the philosophy of education, which I'm sure you know as a historian. This issue has been discussed a great deal in history. There have been questions of one kind and another kind. For example, is our elementary school 3-grade or 6-grade? I'm afraid it won't be just a fixable bunch that we're going to unravel more systematically. But I am ready to discuss this issue here in the Riigikogu and, more specifically, in the Committee on Culture. We could start, but for this to come to a new basic school law, I am not convinced of that today. At the same time, I think that work on this and the debate process would be important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U204	Thank you. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U205	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! We have arranged a civic education class for about 10,000 students in the ninth grade here today. Known teachers write and call to ask how much longer the class of social education can not be spent so long as to listen to the end of your discussion, it will be the third hour. But my question is different. You said that you can apply for citizenship at the end of comprehensive school, passed the Estonian language examination and social studies test. All clear. But yesterday we really talked for several hours about Estonian citizenship becoming a child of a non-citizen and, for example, of a citizen of the Russian Federation. And he would get the so-called conditional citizenship, as Minister Mart Helme said, and he would be able to exercise the right to Estonian citizenship when he becomes an adult and renounces the citizenship of the Russian Federation. That's what we all figured out the same last night. But does this young person still have to take the social studies exam and the Estonian exam at school? That is what my colleague, Vilja Toomas, has just asked. That somehow contradicts. Citizenship is granted immediately after birth, but then it is kind of conditional and there will be another intermediate stage. Are these two laws still not in conflict? It's about 1,500 kids.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U206	First of all, we also have quite a number of children who have both parents of another country's nationality. Those kids didn't show up in the discussion last night. There are also parents who didn't live here in 1991, they're our new immigrants. They didn't show up in the discussion last night either. So these cohorts or these groups are out anyway. In our education system, can you complete comprehensive school in such a way that you do not take a compulsory Estonian language examination? No way. Is there a future in the Estonian education system if the Riigikogu has to approve this draft so that you do not take a social education test? No way. Is it possible to complete a comprehensive school in the Estonian education system in such a way that you do not reach the threshold of 60 and 75 points? Well, if you're learning badly, it is. Maybe it's the only difference that the threshold is different.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U207	Thank you. The next question is from Kristina Šmigun-Vähi.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As I am now in the Committee on Culture, and as a very heated debate on this draft, I must admit that it really is like mush and cabbages. One of my concerns is, and I ask whether it also worries you what happens to our society or to young people or to the future, if we are doing everything we can to make things easier for children. Aren't we growing such soft things here? You're explaining the nature of the test and the nature of the exam here, and it looks like it's kind of easier or something. That we shouldn't hurt our children now, and that we shouldn't cause too much stress, and so on. As your minister, don't you worry about our future? So what happens to these kids in the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U209	Thank you, good questioner! It is such a fundamental question. First of all, when it comes to basic school finals in the ninth grade, it is very important to understand that this is a special source of stress at the end of school. Maybe it's not if it doesn't matter. In fact, the young people we are talking about, so that they can work harder for the exams, maybe the motivation will disappear if they are actually very well aware that they will pass the exam next day and the three will get caught anyway. This information is well known to these young people and very early. So in this sense, there may not be any educational philosophy change in attitude. But that's very important for young people, you asked me if I was worried about anything, then yes, unfortunately I am worried about their mental health. The mental health of our young people is very, very worrying. Suicide risk, very strong tendency to self-destruct, cuttings, lack of perspective, does all of this signal that we are overloaded in the education system? The results of many studies show that we are not too soft, but we are still demanding too much. There will be additional expectations from society at all times, new competences will be required at all times, if you could say so, and all of this will be included in the same curriculum. And teachers know that schools know that actually the days are very long, very intense, very homework-intensive. We study almost a third of the total curriculum at home, namely 27%. So, in fact, our young people's days are very, very long, very intense. But the subject of young people's mental health, this whole school stress is only one part of the concerns, in addition to the social pressures, expectations. One part of our young people needs an individual curriculum because of their mental health. So I dare to generalise here and say that I fear that our problem in society is not too low expectations, but rather young people feel that expectations are clearly too high.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U210	Thank you. Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U211	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I asked this question yesterday in fact in the Commission and you personally answered it, but I want to ask it again here today because there is a slightly larger forum here and you can explain it more broadly. I'm just giving you this opportunity to answer, because I've been asked that too today. It's about these tests. Maybe we can take these fears down. People are just afraid that a new system and a change of law will lead to the level of our children. The level of demand, as well as the level of education, is falling and perhaps also the motivation. These fears are linked to the fact that maybe these tests are a little too simple, that they are such American multiple choice tests, only to write down the ticks. Tell the general public a little more about these tests!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U212	Thank you. First of all, we are more of the opposite. We receive constant feedback and maybe over the years the country will have the opportunity to manage the education system in terms of the content of the learning. And also in terms of supervision, we will give it a tool to manage it. Selection tests do not mean multiple choice. Tests, both general competence and subject competence tests, are substantive and are based on the curriculum. Rather, they have been complicated. Last year's feedback for example in mathematics was that it was far from being that the student had to choose the answer 1, 2 or 3, and according to probability theory, some still dot. According to the feedback, the test assignments were rather too complicated. The children were very concerned, especially the parents of mothers, many of whom turned to the Ministry and claimed that the questions were unexpectedly difficult. And indeed, a lot of questions were those that were not directly included in the curriculum in such wording, but we wanted to know whether the teacher had a broader link to the subjects of study. And that's how we got feedback on what methods have been used. But, yeah, some questions were maybe a little startling. So, no, it's more like feedback. And this very large number of registrations for a natural subject test is 1600, but today more than 9000 registered students show that schools' desire to receive proper feedback has grown exponentially in two years. So something's been triggered correctly in this system. This statistics, or the data that a young person himself receives at a certain age and before that, are certainly something that we will soon get used to. That's more like good. It gives some confidence to make decisions one way or the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U213	Thank you. We agreed that our hearing would last until 2:00 and no longer. This means that there is now a question that Mr Sut can be taken into consideration. Andres, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U214	Thank you. Good minister! It's September 24th and I'm going to mediate the question that you asked me about 9th graders. Do children who went to grade 9 this year have to take comprehensive school finals in spring or not? You said if I understood correctly that this depends on what the Riigikogu decides, but I ask you, what is your personal position as a minister responsible for the field?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U215	Thank you, good questioner! That is what I can say when I have seen how discussions have developed between the first and second readings in the Committee on Culture. Unfortunately, that is exactly how I have responded at all the meetings in schools. It will then be seen whether many of the questions that have been a little repeated here, which have also sounded in the Committee on Culture, will be answered as to whether the teachers of science, who have been the main worriers, will gain confidence. This proficiency paper, which has been a full sample of mathematics in the ninth grade, must be in any case. Whether it is called a level paper and whether other subjects are included in the questionnaire, or whether it will be prepared by Innove in any way from the final mathematics exam. As a state examination, he comes, and in mathematics classes, the ninth-century must continue conscientiously.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-24_U216	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Thank you, colleagues. Now is the time that we have agreed on, and unfortunately today cannot listen to the excellent presentation by Aadu Black on the debate on this draft. But we have a chance to hear it tomorrow. I'm truly sorry that Aadu has to be nervous all day and rereading and preparing the report, but that's the way it is. We agreed to pick it up till 2:00, and it's 2:00 now. Time's up. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 1.58 p.m.
