ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 11th working week of the second plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U2	As the President of the Republic has today appointed Arvo Aller as Minister of Rural Affairs by decision, we are listening to the oath of Minister Arvo Aller. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! In taking on the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, I am aware that in this capacity I am responsible for the Republic of Estonia and my conscience. I solemnly swear to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia and to devote my strength to securing the well-being and future of the Estonian people. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U4	Now is the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Central Party, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Isamaa, I am transferring the draft law amending the Law on Medicines. Only a few changes have been made here, which, however, are of considerable importance. Firstly, if this draft is adopted as a law in the form that I am currently handing over, the ownership restrictions will disappear on the basis of this draft. After the adoption of the draft law, the pharmacy may be owned by any natural or legal person, including the wholesaler of medicinal products. The second important amendment, which concerns the substance of this draft, relates to rare pharmacies. In larger cities, branch pharmacies will be granted a transitional period, with the possibility to convert branch pharmacies into general pharmacies and to maintain branch pharmacies in smaller places instead of 4000 inhabitants in municipalities or municipalities with more than 20000 inhabitants, i.e. in larger places. I think this bill is a good one, but I do not rule out that it cannot be improved in this Chamber and in the proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U6	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This inquiry was prompted by a joint press conference of Estonian wind farm developers held on 6 December, where it was announced to the public that wind farm developers were planning to go to court with damages claims against the state. The inquiry is for Finance Minister Martin Helmele. In some ways, the presentation of the inquiry was boosted by the participation of the Minister of Finance's advisor at this press conference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U8	Thank you. There are no more requests for referrals of drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted a draft and an inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U9	Let's go to today's agenda. Today we have three items on the agenda. The first item is an overview of the activities of the Government of the Republic in the implementation of European Union policy. But before we go to this point, I will briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. First, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be a presentation (up to 30 minutes) and then Anneli Oti, President of the European Union Affairs Committee, will be a presentation (up to 30 minutes). Each member of the Riigikogu may ask each of the rapporteurs an oral question and then the negotiations will follow, where representatives of the political groups can speak. We will go to today's first item on the agenda, an overview of the Government of the Republic's activities in the implementation of European Union policy. I request Prime Minister Jüri Ratas as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U10	Very honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Very honorable ambassadors and the entire diplomatic corps! Nine years will always mark the round anniversary of events of the past century in Europe. These include the anniversary of the fateful Molotov-Ribbentrop criminal conspiracy and the subsequent loss of freedom and the war on the weather. But it also marks the end of the era of undemocratic governance in Europe, as the 19th Versailles Peace Treaty ended its first war, and in 1989 a second world war ended in Eastern Europe when, one after another, totalitarian regimes fell as dominoes. The Baltic Way took place in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the former Czechoslovakia took place at the same time as the first free elections took place in Poland under the leadership of solidarity. The Berlin Wall, which, together with the reunification of Germany, laid the foundation for the reunification of Europe, also fell to the top, under pressure from these forces. However, the work of bringing Europe together has not yet been completed three decades later. I reminded the President of Ukraine who recently visited Tallinn that in July 2017 I expressed my hope in the opening speech of our Presidency to the European Parliament to see the President of Ukraine in the same role one day in front of this Chamber. This dream is still alive. Next year, there will be summits both in the Western Balkans and in the Eastern Partnership, which will certainly be the footsteps of a new geopolitical Europe for these European countries. Can Europe cope with itself? The year 2019 should not be a year in history when a new meteor shower began to sink in the window of Europe. If you use the words of Ivan Krastev, Europe should not become a jealously defending monastery or a mirage from a monastery. History has not run out in Europe. Those countries and nations that are working towards democratic ideals, human rights and social reforms must have the opportunity to be part of a European family sharing common values. Northern Macedonia and Albania deserve a new opportunity. Very Honourable Riigikogu! Europe is a completely unique continent because it is built on freedom, human rights and solidarity and is democratically governed. The European Union has been an obvious political guarantee of this, but if we think about security, there is no alternative to NATO. A week ago, I attended a summit dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Alliance and I am pleased to announce that the Union is in very good health. The Alliance's mission continues to be the protection of its allies, and the Alliance has the necessary plans and capabilities to do so. Also, President Trump has not remained the voice of the shouter in the desert: Europe's allies and Canada have increased defence spending for five years in a row, and 130 billion more has come by 2020. In 2% of the club, if you can say so, there are already nine members this year. There is no need to grasp the air for an alternative and to panic. Protecting Europe is happening together with our allies. The solution is cooperation, not building walls. I therefore regret that a good attempt by the Finnish Presidency to find a solution to the involvement of allies in the permanent structured defence cooperation of the European Union has not yet been supported by everyone. However, if you think about what can and can still be done in the area of security at European Union level, this could be a broad-based approach to security that is characteristic of Estonia and has a clear-cut meaning. A broad-based approach to security will enable the European Union to contribute increasingly to the protection and security of Europe and the Member States. For us, it is important that the solidarity clause in the Treaty on European Union should have a common understanding, especially in the resolution of crisis situations. It is important for us that critical and important cross-border services have performance rules and security of supply, that technology risk assessment, hybrid risk control and cyber risks are jointly addressed, and that investments are made that strengthen security. Very Honourable Riigikogu! I have also been told repeatedly in this Chamber that Estonia opposed the goal of climate neutrality. I can assure you that in June we were not ready to make this target binding. At that point, it was not known whether we were technologically or economically capable of living here in the 59th latitude distributed settlement. However, today we know both that we are capable of doing so and that we know what needs to be done. I would like to thank the good people of the Tallinn office of the Stockholm Environmental Institute for this, who did not know at all how important and time-critical this analysis would be when they started studying these options and options. I am pleased that this study of facts confirmed the conviction that climate neutrality in Estonia has already arisen in me. Thanks to this analysis, together with our Baltic colleagues, we were able to send a joint return to our colleagues, the message being that it is not right to reduce the overall size of the European Union's long-term budget due to the volume of climate investment and to reduce the resources that will enable the Baltic States to achieve these goals. The EU impact assessment of the next steps will be completed by the same time of next year. And I am very pleased that this will be done, because weighty decisions should be based on the best possible knowledge. Then there will be concrete proposals, which must be realistic and feasible, so that we actually reach climate neutrality in Europe. This shows that it is not just the right things to do, but the right things to do. I thank the good Estonian scientists and especially the President of the Academy of Sciences, Tarmo Soomere, for his active engagement in organising a climate conference in cooperation with the State Chancellery. I am glad that Estonia has not only problems or obligations, but Estonian science also has knowledge and new generation solutions. The challenge of turning green could infect Estonian technolootics with the best education in Europe as much as digital technology has done so far. You have brought the right problem to our science, so help us to create as many solutions as possible, because tomorrow's world is yours. Honourable Riigikogu! The forthcoming Climate and Energy Plan (REC 2030) has taken the right course, leaving Member States with the opportunity to make their own choices. However, I would stress that, unlike many, Estonia is on the track to meet its 2020 targets and, as a result of developments, it will probably fill them with a reserve. We have also already set one of the highest emission reduction targets in the European Union by 2030 compared to 1990, i.e. 70%, and, for example, in the case of renewable energy, we are among the five more ambitious countries, taking into account our opportunities as well. I am convinced that the transition to climate neutrality should be technologically neutral and also as market-based as possible, because only in this way is it likely that opportunities, choices and, of course, freedoms will increase. As long as we do not have a magic wand in the form of suitable energy sources, we should not start throwing aside, one by one, the possibility of guaranteeing energy security for countries with an appropriate choice of clean technologies. We also need to continue to strengthen our energy security and security of supply with the help of external organisations. This week, the Balticconnector gas connection for Finland will be opened in Paldiski Estonia, which will make the single market for three countries operational. Last week, the construction of the Lithuanian-era electricity line connection started, which is a very important project to synchronise the Baltic electricity systems with Europe. We hope to join the central European synchronous area in the middle of the decade, and we will try to get over the tail of the dog in the spring of next year and finance the project to the end. However, due to the objective of climate neutrality, there may be a need to further strengthen internal and external connections, especially if energy sources are to be located on the west coast of Estonia in the future. Discussions on climate neutrality, energy revolution and security of supply will certainly take a very large part of the discussions in the honourable Riigikogu in the coming years. Then we can say more clearly what is what every Estonian person can do best for the well-being of the planet and what he can expect of the country. It is probably not an area that would not be affected by this purpose. However, the objective is clear: to achieve climate neutrality by 2050, or 2050, our carbon emissions must be equal to carbon sequestration. We must also see in this objective our great opportunity, the possibility of saving natural resources, the possibility of creating new jobs and new technologies, as well as the possibility of reducing dependence on certain energy sources and their suppliers. By creating clean alternatives, we naturally want to use existing comforts and not lose opportunities to discover the world. While we used to think about Rail Baltic as primarily a strategic connection to the European centre, we are now conscious of rail as an environmentally friendly alternative to the current more polluting modes of transport. The Community will make an important contribution to meeting the climate objectives by significantly reducing road traffic loads and associated pollution caused by international freight transport. I assure you that Rail Baltic continues to be an important strategic objective for the government, and we will do our utmost to remain in the plan and secure the European funds for Rail Baltic. I dedicated more than half of my last week's meeting with my Baltic colleagues in Riga. The representatives of Poland, Finland, the European Commission and the Joint Undertaking also participated, and all expressed their commitment. I also met with the interim chairman of the joint venture to improve communication and speed up the construction of Estonian objects. I believe that we have also found a way to unravel the unknot created around the joint venture, which we will discuss again in Tallinn at the beginning of February. At the end of this part, however, I also want to say that I and Estonia as a whole continue to be grateful to Ida-Viru County and to people working and working in the oil shale industry in Ida-Viru County. We are here today, where we are economically, thanks very much to the contribution of these people and their families. We're not gonna forget that when we're doing the hero, either. Similarly, Europe will not forget this and will contribute to creating new opportunities, new investments and new prospects. The government has worked to ensure that oil shale and Ida-Virumaa have a solid place in the new European Commission fund for a fair transition from fossil fuels to clean fuels. Members of the Riigikogu! What would be the European Union's policy without a digital internal market? You would probably ask if the internal market was complete. Progress in this direction does not mean that we can rest on our laurels, because the benefits of the digital market, as goods and services, are not the story of ourselves. Europe's technological capacity and a smooth digital transition in society will, above all, ensure a much greater contribution to the development of the next generation of technological capabilities. We need to do this together in order to compete globally. During the last year, we saw the 5G example, which may mean a delay in the pace of development, in the assessment of security risks, or in the price, compared to what may not have developed in the light of market rules. We need to ensure that the internal market continues to develop and functions smoothly and with a wider range of choices. We must have the courage to create opportunities for an innovation-enhancing data economy in key sectors. Europe must also find a solution to the issues of the data economy in external trade relations and create legal clarity for the development of artificial intelligence. Future regulation must be precisely that it accelerates technological progress through smart regulation, making data safely available, creating legal clarity for consumers and legal certainty for businesses. The draft Estonian Crati Act will also come to this hall next year. I believe that we do not want to live by the default provisions written in the business development departments of remote large companies and to exchange personal data into services on the basis of them uncontrollable. Remember the saying that if the online service is free, you will be sold yourself. In terms of legal certainty and technological progress, clarity is also needed on liability. At the same time, we do not want a regulatory environment that has gone far enough and does not leave sufficient room for technology, creativity or developers. I hope that, by the end of the new European Commission's term of office, we will have a clear understanding of the European Data Space and the opportunities for the real-time economy across borders. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I also owe you, standing before you, an explanation as to why this time the Government's European Union priority document is shorter, more specific and also thinner. The reason lies in the strategic planning reform carried out by the State Chancellery, which will result in the "Estonia 2035" roof strategy being completed next year. The strategy will build on sectoral development plans and national budget programmes in the future. Sectoral EU policies will also be an organic part of a comprehensive process of national strategic planning and development plans in the future. It will then be better linked to the country's larger goals and also to the means, as the design and cooperation of European policy are part of Estonia's everyday life. The plenary of the Riigikogu and also the Riigikogu committees are actively involved in this work. The day-to-day work on preparing positions on European Union matters will, of course, start to build on these documents so that Estonia's interests are even better protected. The two-year cycle of the European Union's policy priorities document will allow for more flexible planning of the objectives that will be included in the country's strategies and sectoral development plans. It also allows for a faster and more flexible response to change. It is also important for us that the renewed European Semester process and the long-term European budget support the implementation of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the 'Estonia 2035' objectives. The government is under the leadership of the State Chancellery updating and organizing the strategic planning of the entire government. During the strategic planning reform there is also close coordination with the Riigikogu, including the Riigikogu's important role in this process. I hope that this will lead to more meaningful and lively discussions with ministers here, in front of the full Chamber of Honorable Riigikogu, including sectoral European Union policies. I would like to thank the Committee on European Union Affairs for its cooperation and always for its very in-depth discussions, and thank its chairman, its members and the entire secretariat. Honourable Riigikogu! In the interests of Estonia, the European Union is influential and united in the world and is value-based, solidarity-based and functioning internally effectively. Regrettably, not all the signs in the world are encouraging. According to Freedom House, the freedom rate in the world has been falling for 13 years in a row. Next year we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the first Estonian Constitution and not only in order to remember the beginning of statehood, the rule of law and the hard-won freedom, but also European fundamental rights and freedoms in Estonia. The wave of freedom in Eastern Europe three decades ago broke out of desire and desire to enjoy the human rights and democratic freedoms of the free world. From a distance, Europe still looks like an oasis of freedoms. The most modern human rights treaty in the world, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, has just become ten years old with the Lisbon Treaty. Its first sentence states: 'The peoples of Europe, by creating an ever closer union, are determined to share a peaceful future based on common values. ' The first article of the Charter of Fundamental Rights provides for the integrity, respect and protection of human dignity, because without it there is no peace, there are no freedoms, there is no Europe, as we know it. Our geopolitical, ecological and technological challenges today are also a question of human freedom, opportunities and rights. Working together in Europe, we will solve these challenges in a way that creates opportunities to increase freedoms and respects human dignity. Others want these standards, and they are also needed by companies. In his speech, the new President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, quoted Václav Havel's sentence that he would take up work 'to do good and not because something could be done'. The future European conference must give citizens the opportunity to address key issues and offer them decent solutions, because no one else in the world will do this for us. Human dignity-based solutions are also good solutions. This dialogue with citizens should certainly not become a 'Ptydepe', a bureaucratic new language, a double or a kafka process, as described by Václav Havel. Europe is not an elite project, it is a political project for the people of Europe. I am therefore particularly pleased that, at the end of 2019, support for the European Union among both Estonian and Russian-speaking people is very high: 81% and 79% respectively. Europe must celebrate hope for the future, be a solution and encourage the next generations. Just as when we hear the word 'Estonia', the word 'Europe' must speak to our souls. And I think that the Riigikogu, as a representative of the people, should be involved as closely as possible in this work in the future. I wish Charles Michel, Ursula von der Leyen and the European Commission all the strength to cooperate. I sincerely thank President Tusk and President Juncker, who led Europe, the European Council and the European Commission at a critical time. Of course, I would like to thank my closest colleagues from the State Chancellery and the ELS from this Riigikogu speech chair. Thank you for your cooperation, for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U11	Thank you. Prime Minister, there are also questions for you. Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U12	Mr Prime Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. On Friday, I had the opportunity to present to an international group and a third of the questions they raised concerned relations between the European Union and China. Could you comment on the views of the Estonian Government on many Chinese initiatives that have aroused very controversial opinions in Europe, such as 16 + 1, such as Silk Road, such as investments? What's today's opinion? How is the Estonian government of the Chinese Huawi not to be forgotten about the Chinese initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U13	Thank you very much for this question. First of all, from the format you asked about, 16 + 1. After all, last year this format expanded, it's now 17 + 1. If I'm not mistaken, Greece has come more. This takes place every year, Estonia has attended these meetings. China is very active in this format in Europe; it cannot be denied. When we are talking about Chinese investments in European countries, I think that the treatment here is also very different. There are those countries that are now talking about China's private capital, which involve as much as possible, and there are those who say they are trying to find other solutions. That's one. Secondly, when it comes to relations between the European Union and China, it is important that the European Union's relations with China should focus primarily on those areas that are vital for the European Union, China and the rest of the world. What do I mean by that? Definitely climate change. Without big economies, this serious issue in the world will not be resolved and these goals will not be achieved: clean energy, sustainable development, environmental protection. At the same time, attention must also be paid to issues that are important to us, such as human rights, the rule of law, the digital economy and cyber security. The same principles apply to Estonia when we participate in this format, which you have just asked about, what is the format of cooperation between the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and China. I would also like to say that I certainly think that more and more debate will come down on the table when we are talking about China, on the subject of 5G in particular. We must, in my opinion, maintain transparency and security in its development. This is certainly very important and important to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U14	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U15	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Prime Minister! In this speech you pointed out all the important aspects that I believe have consistently been part of Estonia's European policy. You also mentioned that our people's support for the European Union is one of the highest in the European Union, amounting to four fifths. You also highlighted the importance of European solidarity in defending democratic values, liberal values and the European Union's role in guaranteeing our security. However, we cannot miss the dissonance that comes out of this speech and the statements made by members of your government. Please explain a little how it is possible to put this speech together with such statements that the European Union is the same as the Soviet Union which occupied Estonia or that climate problems do not exist at all or, as we heard last week from the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, that some members of the government see that the rule of law, which we have all considered to be very important, does not really apply to many people, in the opinion of members of the government, I mean. How do you explain the dissonance that appears between your speech and the statements of the government parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U16	Thank you for that question. I will first add to the answer to Mr Kallas's question, if Mr Mihkelson permits. The European Commission will always participate in this format 17 + 1. In answer to your question, Mr Mihkelson, I think first of all that I feel that March 3 has passed, the elections have passed, and today is a day-to-day job. This work will certainly be done well by all the political groups here in the Riigikogu, both the opposition and the coalition. Now I will try to remove the slices you asked about from your question. First of all, you said that someone compares the European Union with the Soviet Union. I think this comparison is completely inappropriate, there is no possibility of comparison here. No minister in the government has asked us to change Estonia's positions so that we compare these two alliances. They can't be compared, they're incomparable. There have been no such discussions at government or government level. You asked about climate problems. You say there's dissonance or different messages. I remember that there were four countries in the spring of this year who said at the European Council that they were sorry, but they cannot yet give the final yes word. I also said in my speech that Estonia has never opposed it. We had a very clear explanation and a request that we wish to carry out an analysis. That analysis was carried out. I thank those who did so, I also thanked the Academy of Sciences and his President in my speech, who were really very actively involved in this process when we organised the conference. I cannot say that in this government, I do not know whether the EKRE, the Fatherland or the Centre Party would have contributed more to this. It was a joint decision. I understand the undertone of this issue, but I must disappoint you that I think this government union is working well, cooperation is good. The most important thing in my opinion is that cooperation is work. Maybe the same slice of your speech about dissonance illustrates that. It is no secret that there are many people in Estonia who doubt how great this man-made impact on climate change is. The government's desire was to listen to specialists, scientists, professors, academics, and then decide. And we decided together in the government, consensually, that Estonia would support this objective. True, that is not the end of the debate. This means very big changes in every person's life, in the lives of local governments, in the lives of the country, but also very big changes in the lives of the private sector. I think this is perhaps the greatest challenge, the Riigikogu and the government must say what we expect from the private sector. So I commend all coalition parties here. I cannot fail to mention that the Minister for the Environment has a very responsible portfolio, which is carried by Rene Kokk of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U17	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U18	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! As you observe your very remarkable path, the Riigikogu will surely remember not 3 March, but last Wednesday, when a completely different path came out of the Prime Minister's mouth. We are not really talking about comparison with March, but also about the last few days during which various statements have come out of the mouth of the members of the government, which are completely contrary to your views on the European Union, on the climate, on Rail Baltic, on human dignity and on anything. How do you intend to develop your cooperation in the future, as you say? Is it the same way that you have a division of labour, so some people talk the same way and the others talk the other way around? Which of the paatoos do we have to believe, is it what is calling the Riigikogu and all the noble goals that you have called or what you have presented here today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U19	Thank you for this question. I guess we all have to believe what we feel is the truth about which we believe it is the truth. Three issues (I will certainly answer them all) that you raised: the European Union, the climate and Rail Baltic. Point one, on the subject of the European Union, I replied to Mr Mihkelson. I will only add so much that Chapter 1 of the Coalition Agreement is 'External and Security Policy'. Yeah, I'm going back to the post-election period, too, in March and April. After all, we mentioned that this coalition has no problem with membership of the European Union. I do not know, I am taking part in these discussions, involving representatives of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, where representatives of the Fatherland Party and representatives of the Centre Party are taking part, and I have not understood that anyone would somehow like to question the European Union as the formation that it is today. Absolutely not. Now the climate. In the case of climate, it is very difficult for me to add something to the previous answer I said. But I'm gonna be honest with you, I saw the whole government making an effort to do that. We sincerely wanted to understand what it meant. We had, I remember, another break within the framework of the Spring Council. I had the opportunity to ask the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mrs Anneli Ott, and the Minister for the Environment, Mr Rene Kokk, to attend the telephone conference (I thank them for their participation). We discussed what we were gonna do. Our position was consistent: an analysis must be carried out and there is no rush here. That's what happened. I don't know, I wouldn't complain that we approached it on the basis of expert opinion and scientific background. I am also happy to look up where the honourable ambassadors are sitting today, many of them from the European Union. I think it's important. But the important thing is that every country can make this decision, and today, I believe, we are moving in that direction. On Thursday and Friday of this week, when I have had a good opportunity to go to the European Union Affairs Committee yesterday, one important issue is, indeed, a good questioner, that is climate policy, a focus on climate policy. You asked about the climate. I would really like to mention that, on climate issues, we will continue the discussions of the June Council in order to agree on the objective of climate neutrality at European Union level by 2050. Estonia supports this objective. We also consider it important that it is supported by adequate transitional measures and that the different levels of reference of the Member States are taken into account. Of course, it was also in my speech that it concerns Ida-Viru County, it concerns our energy sector in particular, the replacement of oil shale (when we are talking about electricity generation) with other energy sources, such as wind energy. This could also be one of the nuances (you asked for it) in the climate, which is important. Today's government, this same coalition, EKKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party, has also decided that we are willing to invest in improving radar capabilities, but with this we are actually improving the possibilities of wind energy, because this area would be larger where higher windmills could be built. I think it's important. Member States must retain the right to choose the appropriate ways to achieve the climate target, such as the introduction of taxes. This is important to Estonia and we pay particular attention to ensuring that carbon-intensive regions have the means to invest. I just mentioned Ida-Virumaa, where the transition is the most difficult. The European Commission should present this so-called green deal in the near future, I do not know, perhaps even today. I very much hope that there will also be greater clarity, which is the proposal for a fair transition fund. Perhaps this is the green deal, yes, which I would like to add in response to Mr Mihkelson's question. Your third question was about Rail Baltic. Saustinõmme had a very beautiful event. I would also like to say here in front of the Riigikogu that I thanked Mr Siim Kallas in my speech, who certainly, working in the European Commission, did quite strongly initiate this project. He was there. It was a beautiful occasion. But it cannot be denied that if the percentages of Rail Baltic in terms of funding, Mr Ligi, should change, then I have always said, both in the previous coalition and in today's coalition, that then, of course, the Riigikogu must be consulted again. These investments are still very large and very large, I mean financially. Perhaps these are some comments to your three questions: the European Union, the climate and Rail Baltic.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U20	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U21	Honourable Vice President! Prime Minister! In your presentation, you only dealt with the future of Ida-Viru County and the oil shale industry. I will continue with this question, which I asked you yesterday at ELAK, concerning investments in the oil shale industry. Yesterday, you stressed that the funds for the 10c free quota of this modernisation fund will not be or will not be allocated to Eesti Energia and Viru Chemistry Group for the construction of the refinery. But I have a specific question. In next year's budget, 125 million euros will be allocated to Eesti Energia to build a new oil plant. Why such a financial allocation from the budget? The budget will be adopted tomorrow. Why is this even necessary and how does this financial allocation to Eesti Energia for the construction of a new oil plant fulfil the objectives of climate policy, the objectives of green policy and the transition from fossil fuels to clean fuels?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U22	Thank you, Honourable Sõerd. Indeed, I will also say before the Riigikogu, from this honourable chair, that we had a very interesting debate yesterday with Aivar Sõer in the Committee on European Union Affairs. In my opinion, we found a great deal of common language and mind on this issue. You asked how this oil plant met its climate goals. I thought that was your question. You're a businessman and a financial specialist. You see, the ideology of sustainable development has been from the beginning that, in addition to the climate, we must always look at the economic environment, we must always look at the social environment, and that is what I pointed out in my speech. People of Ida-Virumaa, hat off in front of them! Oil shale has been one of Estonia's most important mineral resources, one of the most important resources and thanks to this wealth we have also been able to develop our economy very much. Now I come to the economic aspect. You specifically ask about the oil plant. As we know, the establishment or non-construction of this oil plant in the end is the decision of Eesti Energia itself at the level of the board and management board. Today's general meeting of Eesti Energia is Minister of Finance Martin Helme. I thank you very much for coming to the office with this subject to ask for the opinion, advice, advice, thoughts on it. Eesti Energia says that the construction of an oil plant, point one, will be economical in the next 10 to 15 years. He says it improves our export capacity. After all, this is what we have repeatedly and repeatedly spoken about here in the centre that there is a need to develop the Estonian economy and improve Estonia's export capacity. Those have been the reasons. What's to deny here has also been that, in some respects, it creates new jobs. When we think about oil shale, this important resource, I don't want to say it's a bad resource. Far from it, but of course its environmental footprint is large. We need to think about what we can do smarter with oil shale than just produce electricity. Indeed, we can see that the environmental footprint is, of course, also on the oil plant, but it is decreasing. It's more environmentally friendly. Jobs in Ida-Virumaa are important, as are our economies and exports. Of course, we can use oil shale even more wisely. It would be very interesting to think about the debate here, in the Chamber of the Honourable Riigikogu, say, 30, 40 or 50 years on, what you might be able to do about oil shale. So the environmental footprint is small, it is economically very efficient, it is extremely efficient in terms of export and it also creates jobs. These three thoughts are like a ship at sea, which must always be balanced. I certainly want to say that oil shale is not just one mineral resource, but it is a sector that represents one of the regions of Estonia, even its identity, I would say. Indeed, as I said before, it provides work for a very large proportion of the people in the region. The transition to a cleaner climate must take into account everyone and must not leave anyone in trouble, in the same way, I repeat, also the people of Ida-Virumaa. I can assure you, speaking of the decision on the State's participation, that yesterday there was talk of this refinery, for example. You pointed out your question, and you are very familiar with the 10c finance fund, the CO2 money. We didn't give it any cents, we said we wouldn't support it through 10c. Indeed, no such decision has been taken to support the refinery. A more detailed analysis is currently being carried out, the results of which will be presented in the spring of next year, the Lord's year 2020. In addition, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications are working together to carry out an analysis in order to map different options to support the refinery. It is indeed a big investment, but it is so on the basis of the spot price. As you can see, construction procurement comes and prices change. So I say, on the basis of the current assessment, it is estimated that this could be an investment of around EUR 600 million. A very large investment that the state has never made in the sense that we are giving this money is decided. Discussions have taken place, but there is no such decision. That was also the answer to this 10c. Perhaps the rest of the House, which did not attend yesterday's meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, wanted to know that too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U23	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U24	Good President! Good Prime Minister! I will continue with the question of Ida-Viru County. You spoke about the transition to other energy sources, about our energy security coming from green energy, etc. You praised the people of Ida-Viru County. Thank you so much for this. It warms my heart. However, unfortunately, no fair transition plan has been drawn up in Ida-Virumaa. As head of government, how do you anticipate further dialogue between Ida-Viru County and the government? So what happens next? Undoubtedly, the message of the end of oil shale energy is difficult for people to accept, as you emphasised, also in terms of identity. In Ida-Virumaa, oil shale has been called brown gold since the 1930s and it is clear that such a transition is difficult. What will be the dialogue between the government and Ida-Virumaa, and how will you do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U25	I thank you very much for this question, sincerely thank you for the question about the plan or plan of Ida-Virumaa. It's, I think, very relevant. Sincerely! What you said, I agree, I agree with this whole idea about the people of Ida-Viru County. I also told Mr. Sõerdi that I would not trample oil shale mud. I think we need to use our wisdom and innovation. Of course, I fully understand that oil shale electricity production is falling, and continues to fall. This will be the case because of environmental objectives and the market situation, this production is simply not competitive. But how to do something else, smarter, that's definitely worth thinking about. Before I begin to answer the part of your question about the plan or plan, I would also like to say that we must consider that these people, these same engineers or miners, let us be honest, are well paid in Estonian terms, well paid. In Estonian terms, I stress. This salary is definitely above the Estonian average. Finding an alternative job with this salary is very difficult in Ida-Virumaa. I've met with representatives of the unemployment fund in Narva or Ida-Virumaa. They say there are some jobs with that kind of pay, but there are very few. I also mentioned in my speech the initiative or idea of the President of the European Commission. This is the so-called Fair Transition Fund. There's a lot of talk about it. As I said, I hope that a concrete proposal will come to the table at the beginning of next year. The question, of course, is how it will be implemented, so that should be clear. I have also said this at a number of meetings, that there is a great deal of talk in Europe about coal, coal, for example in Poland, etc., but there is something similar in Estonia, but it is not coal, it is oil shale, and of course it is our wish, and it must be our aim that the oil shale issue be included in the fair transition fund. In setting climate targets, we have always taken into account the specificities of the Ida-Viru County region. In early 2018, when I am not deluded by memory, we started a five-year programme in Ida-Virumaa aimed at speeding up the development of the region, for example by supporting industrial enterprises that create jobs in the region in expanding their activities and, of course, also by providing advice to companies on how to digitise production and encourage retraining for people of working age. The training aspect was and is important. The budget for the activities already decided on by the programme is planned to be in the order of EUR 4 million per year until 2023. Next year it will be EUR 5.1 million. Of course, the programme needs to be modernised to new challenges, and this is also to be done in the context of the renewal of the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan next year. These are the thoughts raised by your question, Mrs. Katri Raik.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U26	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! When we talk about the policies of the European Union, we cannot overcome or overcome global competition, Europe's competition with the US and Asia. It is also quite well known that, in this global competition, Europe is doing something to keep up with Asia and the US. You spoke in the Committee on European Union Affairs about how to promote this capacity for innovation and the knowledge-intensive economy in this continent. But I will now ask you, as Prime Minister, what is your personal message when the budget for the next European Union period is being discussed and the money is being distributed, even for innovation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U28	Thank you very much. Really, yesterday we talked about it. We must always think about what we have to do to ensure that Europe does not fall behind, as you said, either China or the US in innovation or technological development. I think these are precisely the areas where the Member States of the European Union, and, of course, with others, Estonia, must make a serious and joint effort. We must jointly increase investment in research and development, in new technologies, including the development of artificial intelligence. To this end, a considerable amount of resources has been planned in the future European financial framework. The 'European horizon' programme is certainly very important. This is bigger than ever, and for the first time, Europe also sees a very separate funding programme on digital issues, let's say, a digital Europe programme. The European Commission has started to coordinate the activities of the Member States in the development of artificial intelligence, in particular by developing a joint action plan. The Estonian Government Office also endorsed our own Krati Action Plan (we call it a spoiling scratch) during the summer, based on the so-called Krati Working Group's performance report. Access to data and a functioning data economy are prerequisites for the development of craters. We need to move towards the European Data Space by developing the infrastructure for both private and public data to be easily accessible and usable and, of course, always in line with the protection of personal data. I would also like to add, Mrs Tiidus, that the new President of the Commission, Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, has also promised to come up with a horizontal legal framework governing artificial intelligence during the first hundred days of her term of office. The aim is to ensure that respect for fundamental rights and ethical principles, transparency and the strong protection of consumers are a trademark of artificial intelligence solutions developed and used in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U29	Urmas Espenberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U30	Dear Deputy Speaker! Good Prime Minister! Urve Tiidus asked my question, but okay, I will then ask about European agricultural policy. As we know, there's a farmer meeting in front of this house today. As Prime Minister or as an office as a whole, do you have a more concrete plan to better support our farmers in Europe so that they can cope?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U31	Thank you very much for this very important question, sincerely. I was able today, and I tried to get here at the Riigikogu today it's so interesting to have a debate with you earlier, half already. Then I met farmers too. They just set up their tractors in front of this house. They said that they would be grateful for this in any case, and they said that this is the right direction if the Riigikogu supports taking into account the so-called 5 million amendments. We're talking top-up. Today there is a budget in the Riigikogu with 5 million in it. We know that the maximum rate is 15 million and it is proposed to increase it by 5 million. It was their message that if they did, it would be extremely important. The other half, I think, of what you asked for, is what we will do in the next six, ten or twelve months, depending on how long the MFF negotiations are going on, and how we will be able to better negotiate subsidies for ourselves in the next budget cycle of the European Union, to stand up for them. I am pleased that now the Minister for Rural Affairs, Arvo Aller, with whom he spoke this morning, said that it is certainly important to him that we get a better position, knowing that it is, of course, very difficult to achieve this. What else? On the one hand, we say that 2020 is the last time the top-up is paid, but it seems to me that it is quite natural when we say that we want to continue. But that shouldn't be our first wish. Our first wish must be to increase subsidies and then what I have just told you to continue paying the top-up. In the negotiations on the next long-term budget of the European Union, one of Estonia's priorities is to ensure equal conditions of competition for farmers in the common market. I'm sure we're working on it. Direct payments by Estonian farmers are most likely to continue to increase every year. We welcome the fact that the Commission's proposal provides for a reduction of differences in the levels of grants. Let us look at Finland's latest proposal, which was 1.07. This was also included in the proposals made by Finland as President. But I think this should go even further. In my opinion, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia share a common position so that our farmers do not have to endure unfair conditions of competition. So it is a priority in any case, it is one of Estonia's most important priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U32	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister! The meetings with our partners from the Nordic Council and the Benelux Parliamentary Assembly within the framework of the Baltic Assembly have repeatedly discussed the European Union's foreign policy and the role of the Baltic States in this. It has been stressed that our partners believe that we have a special role to play in the Eastern Partnership programme, and not only because in the Eastern Partnership countries there is still Russian for lingua franca at times, but precisely because we do not need to translate mentality, we understand it better than our Swedish colleagues or those of the Netherlands or Belgium. Is and to what extent this attitude and the Eastern Partnership programme in general correspond to government policies and government practical actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U34	Thank you very much for this question. Since the creation of the Eastern Partnership programme, where Estonia certainly played an important role, it has always been our focus. Let's look at the Estonian Presidency for a moment, remember this two-year-old event that took place in 2017. After all, we also wanted to have an Eastern Partnership summit. Back then, I remember, he was discussed early in the year where he wore to do it. Our idea was that if we did a digital summit on the day of September 29, 2017, the Eastern Partnership Summit could be in Brussels and draw a bit wider in a good sense. It is not just a question of Estonia or Latvia or Lithuania; it is a question of all the Member States of the European Union. That was point one. I also said in my speech that the fact that the Eastern Partnership issue will most likely come back to the table in 2020 because there will be a summit is, in my opinion, a positive one. As far as I am concerned, this meeting should take place in the second half of next year and, as far as I have the preliminary information, it should take place in Brussels. This shows, in my opinion, that today's Council and its leader take this issue as an extremely important priority. What else do I want to say? I had a meeting yesterday with the Moldovan ambassador leaving Estonia. We have six countries in the Eastern Partnership programme. It is important to remember that there is an Eastern Partnership centre in Tallinn, which, in my opinion, cooperates very practically with these countries. This is not cooperation if Estonia gives one euro. I do not know whether it is cooperation between local governments, whether it is cooperation between the press or the media, whether we share our digital experiences, etc. I do not know exactly what these countries want. Yes, this is a very important priority for Estonia, it has been and will certainly be in the future. Of course, the idea of offering more opportunities to the Eastern Partnership and offering the freedoms that are in the European Union is, I think, important. Economic support is important. Let us take roaming prices, transport connections or, in my opinion, an excellent example of this when we talk about the European Union, which someone thinks is Erasmus and somebody thinks is Erasmus+. These are concrete examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U35	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U36	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister, thank you very much for your very good speech. I liked that you quoted the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and stressed that the European Union is a Union of values. In addition to human rights, we must also stand up for patients' rights. I am asking about this: I am asking about the patient's right not to pay off excess profits from large incumbents. My surprise this morning was made by my colleague, Priit Sibul, when he handed over the Pharmacy Reform Bill. I was surprised it was as skinny as the media discussed last week. I ask you whether we can believe that the current government stands for human rights, democracy and the rule of law at European Union level, and whether people can believe that the current government does not make laws for the business interests of specific companies, at the expense of patients.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U37	Thank you for this question. Yes, I think it is still connected to today's subject, it is very strongly linked to the European Union's policy. Estonia is one part of this European Union, where there are 28 other countries today. If questions come more specifically about the land of Mary, then we must answer them. What can I say? The first answer is, point one, yes, that of course Estonia is the rule of law, respects human rights. There is no way, I do not know that an entrepreneur would say that he needs such or such a law. Indeed, I have never been offered such a proposal. What else can I say? You named Mr. Priit Onion. If I remember correctly how he handed over this bill here, I had the opportunity to listen to it, then he said he hoped that during the proceedings of the Riigikogu this bill would become even better. This is, in my opinion, a European approach: dialogue must always be maintained, dialogue must never be killed. So I thought it was very reasonable what he said. You brought out pharmacy and medicine. I might expand this subject a little bit with the issue of security of supply for medicines. We can see that the problem of supply of medicines is a problem both at EU level and globally. Estonia is in a difficult situation due to the small size of the market, even in a more complex situation than the great powers, you can say. Thus, over the next two years, Estonia will stand for the development of regulatory and supportive measures at EU level to improve access to medicines, including ensuring the supply of both new and already proven products on the market in all Member States. For example, in the case of new, innovative medicines, it should be ensured that centrally authorised medicinal products in the European Union are subject to an obligation to ensure equal access in all Member States, on the basis of the needs of a specific country. I think it's extremely important. This morning I had a lovely meeting at the food bank, and I helped prepare the packages for Christmas. I had a phone conversation and a meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the time, who is also concerned. Today, in the press, there's been a shortage of children's medicines. We discussed this with the Foreign Minister. Immediately thereafter, I contacted the Minister for Social Affairs and asked what the problem was, because it is not right that children's medicines could not be reached in Estonia. If they say there's no plane to pick them up, we have to find a way. I asked the Minister of Social Affairs to give me an overview of the state of the matter in the next few hours. Perhaps these are important thoughts in response to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I still want to return to Ida-Viru County for a moment. You were talking about oil shale mining and the problem of miners. You've talked about this before. I am glad that it is always in focus, because behind one miner there is still quite a bit more social, how to say, support, I mean other family members. This is a serious matter, so it needs to be dealt with and we will continue to deal with it. But now that we have farmers out here, I want to ask in the context of Ida-Viru County. We have a much worse situation in the fields than in many other regions, precisely because of the same extraction. What is your position on whether we should grant our farmers exemptions from either top-up or European Union money?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U39	Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U40	Thank you! I'm sure you've been exposed to the problems of Ida-Virumaa in your previous work, even as a rural elder. You said that, for example, the fields are less productive because of the mines there, or agriculture is not as easy to deal with as in other Estonian counties. I think, coming out of the agricultural sector for a moment, we will come to a root issue or a core issue. We have lived at the expense of oil shale; in fact, Estonia as a whole has lived, let us be honest. I didn't thank those men for their mouths, and I'm sure the women who have done this job will do it today, and they will do it tomorrow. But, in fact, as a country, we have never diverted the resource we have received from Ida-Viru County, even in the same currency. I think I have no right to say this about the Riigikogu, but all other prime ministers and governments must look in the mirror once. In fact, it takes this step to refocus resources that have been taken from Ida-Viru County. Mines have changed the living environment there. We cannot say that it has not changed, of course it has changed, but unfortunately towards disadvantage. This is where, I think, the country should think very seriously. You asked about exceptions in agriculture and top-up. I will reply, as I said to my good fellow official Urmase, that, of course, Estonia, I think, should have opportunities in the future to pay top-up support to my farmers. I think it's very right and reasonable. All the more so since agricultural subsidies in the European Union are certainly not fully harmonised, that is understandable. It would help to ease the difference in the start-up situation a little bit, let's say. So, yeah, I think we should pay attention to that. But I think we should have a wider debate on how much we give back to Ida-Viru County. We don't give much today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U41	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U42	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! In the meantime, I would like to remind you that we should be discussing here the Government of the Republic's activities in the implementation of European Union policy. We have not dealt very much with the competitiveness of the European Union today and how it can be improved. When it comes to speaking in principle to any company operating in any sector that carries out or wishes to operate in several European Union countries, they all describe how protectionism within the European Union has still not disappeared. Fragmentation is very much there. There has not been much to hear about the Government of the Republic's initiatives to eliminate protectionism. Would you please describe these activities? What have been the new initiatives recently taken to make the European Union market actually work smoothly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U43	Thank you. I actually answered a little about the question of comparison between the European Union versus China and the US when asked what the European Union had to do to improve its competitiveness. I think it's important. If you ask about protectionism, then you cannot deny that it exists at any time. What has Estonia done? Surely one of our great principles has been the fundamental values of the European Union. This market is for everyone, a market of 510 million people, where services and goods must move freely. After all, during our Presidency, we took it very strongly into focus, and Mr Andrus Ansip, Commissioner at the time, stressed that data must move freely. It's a problem that they won't move freely today. The fifth freedom, in my opinion, still does not work. These are, for example, some initiatives. What else? I think that this whole climate theme, which should certainly help us see more competitive projects together, Europe versus the world, Europe versus, I don't know, the US, Europe versus China, etc. Estonia, together with countries that are pro-internal market, is making proposals to open up the service market all the time. We certainly want to make a full contribution to facilitating entrepreneurship. So that's what these initiatives are, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U44	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U45	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! Are you ready to speak in Europe also for sanctions against politicians of the evil empire in our neighbourhood to be extended to the Kremlin propaganda? Our information space needs protection, and this is the kind of thing that Russia's own democrats are striving for, finding that propaganda is distorting the real situation and thus hurting and destroying to some extent our own sense of justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U46	Thank you. A very topical question. Speaking for a moment about sanctions in the wider sense, every spring and every Christmas, also this year, the European Council is discussing the issue of sanctions against Russia. Yesterday a very long meeting took place in Normandy format. I certainly want to point out positively that if the last Normandy format summit was in 2016, then in 2019 it took place again. First of all, I would like to express my thanks to all the four countries that agreed to sit at the table together. I do not believe that without such a meeting of leaders in the sense of the Minsk Agreements, the result will be achieved, rather than being left behind. We have now seen that the leaders of four countries, the three presidents of France, Russia and Ukraine, in addition to the German chancellor, were seriously working for this result. It is also on the Council's agenda. At the moment, the situation is that sanctions are being extended. When it comes to the sanctioning regime for human rights offenders, the European Union will work on the sanctioning regime for human rights offenders. There is a cyber sanction regime and, if I am not mistaken, it should come from the Estonian Presidency.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U47	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U48	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! We do not, as we know, have many airports and ports that are suitable for the reception of allied forces. There is a proper civil aviation field in Tallinn, one military airport in Ämari, ports in Tallinn, Paldiski and Muuga. Within the framework of the European Union's military cooperation, the project on transnational mobility of forces is probably the most important and will allocate significant amounts of funding to the reconstruction of infrastructure. Is the Government of the Republic intended, for example, to invest with the help of these funds in the repetition and reconstruction of some cross-used airport and port, such as Pärnu airport and port?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U49	Thank you. I was wondering for a moment that you were asking about the airport or the port. The question was not about rail transport, but it is actually one of the options, too, is it not? But when it comes to airport or port, certainly, I think military mobility is part of the budget negotiations. This is certainly an important part of it. When PESCO was created, three countries were excluded from the 25 countries: Denmark, Great Britain and Malta. Everyone, of course, had their reasons. Twenty-five countries launched it. Since the launch of PESCO, EU defence ministers have confirmed a total of about 50 projects, namely 47. It's moving on. As far as I know, Estonia is primarily involved in three projects. We run an unmanned land system project and as a contracting party we participate in two projects, one is a Dutch-led military mobility project and the other is a Lithuanian-led cyber defence team project. In addition, Estonia will continue to look at several projects. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U50	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U51	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! You did not discuss this in your presentation. My question concerns the integration of the euro area. The Minister for Finance of your government has expressed the view that further integration of the euro area is not something he would support. What is the government's position on this issue? We know that next year, the reform of the European Stability Mechanism will certainly also be a debate here. I'd like to know your vision of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U52	Thank you. First of all, as far as I know, the ESM issue should come right here, to the Honorable Riigikogu, before you for discussion. I certainly don't want it to be that there was one yesterday and there's another today. You also know that there will be a very interesting euro area summit on Friday this week. This will take place within the framework of the European Council on 13 December. I said this yesterday to the Committee on European Union Affairs, and this question would also be quite appropriate to mark it here with the next answer. This will take place with the participation of 27 countries, in an extended format. This is a summit, with the focus on the euro area budget, the reform of the ESM and the development of a banking union. On these three issues, a joint statement by the Member States participating in the Euro Summit is scheduled to be confirmed. Fundamental agreement has been reached on the amendments to the ESM Treaties and its sub-acts. We approve of intermediate progress on Friday. As I said, Estonia's positions are currently in line with the ESM reform package. As far as I know, yes, the amendment to the ESM Treaty is expected to be ready for signature at the beginning of 2020 and ratification by national parliaments should take place within the next year. I guess that's the main thing that we talked about yesterday with the ESM. I would say so much more that I think it would be worth mentioning these three important issues here: firstly, the emergence of the ESM as the lender of the last instance to the resolution fund of the Banking Union, with a total amount of EUR 70 billion (EUR 68 billion), which could be used once the resolution fund itself has exhausted its resources, secondly, the transformation of ESM crisis prevention instruments, thirdly, of course, the strengthening of ESM's participation in the preparation, transfer and monitoring of aid programmes. What else should be done to strengthen the European Economic and Monetary Union? I think that the next steps must be to develop a Capital Markets Union and a banking union with no chains or, rather, links to the chain. The missing links of the Banking Union are certainly the role of the European Stability Mechanism as the lender of the last resort to the resolution fund, and I said it as the first issue, "one-stop-shop" and "one-stop-shop deposit insurance." In parallel, risks in the financial sector must continue to be reduced in order to avoid crises. It is always cheaper to avoid the crisis than to solve it, you know it many times better than I do, you are largely from the financial world. The improved capital market offers companies more diverse sources of funding and improves access to finance for companies. A very important issue, in my view, which we must also mark here, is the fight against money laundering. Here we say that Estonia is no place for money laundering. I certainly congratulate today's Minister for Finance, who has done a great deal of work on this. He's had meetings in the United States. I myself had the honour of attending and meeting representatives of the Federal Reserve, private banks and the Ministry of Finance. The things that were must be left behind and the lessons learned from that time. But we also see that, for example, the portfolio of non-residents in Estonia has still fallen very strongly, less than 10%. Let's take the example of the offshores, if I'm not mistaken, this portfolio should be reduced at least 20 times, less than 0.5%. I think this shows that Estonia is acting very seriously in the fight against money laundering. I am pleased that both the PBGB and the Financial Supervision Authority have gained more resources, not only financial resources, but also human resources, in order to be more active. Of course, international cooperation is very important. When warning signals appear, they are taken seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U53	Urmas Reitelmann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U54	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Prime Minister! In Europe, the attitude towards Russia has changed somewhat recently, we are taking the last speeches by the President of France in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to restore Russia's voting rights. What is Estonia's message to European partners in the light of the easing of relations with Russia? Could you please answer Mr Kruusimäe's question, which was about the most brutal sanctions against Russian propaganda? For example, would Estonia, in your view, be prepared to apply a Schengen visa refusal to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U55	Thank you. I have little to add to the other side of the question when it comes to Mr Kruusimägi. Russia's wider issue. I will answer very briefly. What are we hoping for? In fact, we sincerely hope that, once the Minsk agreements have been concluded, they will be implemented, which should be a prerequisite for the abolition of sanctions. My sense of feeling at European Union level is that everyone, I do not know, rather waits, they do, but it has not happened so far. I calculated yesterday that this may be the seventh time that I have the opportunity to participate in the debate on the extension of sanctions. I cannot say that there has never been a place where the European Union has not acted together. He's been acting together. I think it's been important. Russia is subject to economic sanctions imposed by the European Union relating to the implementation of the Minsk agreements. The extension of them will be reviewed by the European Council, as I said, twice a year, every six months. Next time we meet, it's Thursday and Friday. Estonia's position is that we must continue to implement them until, as I have also told you, the Minsk agreements have not been complied with. Yesterday, the Head of State of France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine met at the Normandy Summit. As I said earlier, I think that dialogue is important; it must be maintained. I've read somewhere that I think they have a plan to meet again in a few months. I think that's a good idea. I guess the Council will hear how they had these discussions, but I think at the same time it must be borne in mind that, according to the Minsk agreements, Ukraine must have control over its borders and territory, which has still not happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U56	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your speech and your answer to questions. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Anneli Oti, Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U57	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, honourable ambassadors, guests and ladies and gentlemen. This spring Estonia celebrated the 15th anniversary of its accession to the European Union. Since spring 2004, when Estonia became a member of the European Union, Estonia has been an active and constructive partner and will continue with its pragmatic stance. 15 years is enough time to understand the value and meaning of belonging to the European Union to Estonia. Economic, cultural and foreign policy cooperation, as well as the joint standing for European values, have strongly supported Estonia's development over these years. Robert Schuman has said: 'Europe is not created overnight or in a single motion. Europe is born through concrete actions that first create real cohesion. ' Today, we are the ones who are contributing to this cohesion and thereby strengthening Europe as a whole. Estonia contributes to shaping policies and determining European trends in the European Union. All initiatives and decisions will be discussed and decided jointly with the Member States. Everyone has the opportunity to say what they say, and sometimes compromises need to be found. We also have heated discussions in the European Union Affairs Committee, but we are all out for the interests and well-being of Estonia and the decisions are largely consensual. Good Riigikogu! Since May of this year, I have been elected chairman of the largest committee of the Riigikogu, the Committee on European Union Affairs, and I am warmly grateful for this opportunity and trust. With a very professional and committed team and members of the Commission, this work is a positive challenge and, above all, a very interesting one. As soon as I started my work, I set out to improve the content of the work of the Committee on European Union Affairs and to make the work of the Commission more transparent. The European Union must reach out to all people, and decision-making must be transparent. As a first step, the Riigikogu launched a system of rapporteurs for the European Union, which allows for a better division of work between the members of our committee, thereby increasing the substantive contribution of our committee to the preparation of the positions of the negotiations between Estonia and the European Union. This is a fundamental change in the proceedings of European Union affairs in the Riigikogu. Today, under the leadership of the rapporteurs, we have worked on 14 initiatives, held 40 meetings in the Commission and developed Estonia's positions together with ministers for 65 meetings at the level of the Council of the European Union. I congratulate and thank the Prime Minister and other government ministers who are actively participating in and contributing to the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs. This year, the new Riigikogu started at the time of the European Union elections, which allowed members of our committee to familiarise themselves with the issues at the level of the European Union. We held a number of parliamentary hearings on climate neutrality, the Rail Baltic project, the use of European Union money, the fundamentals of state aid and the synchronising of the electricity market in the Baltic States. Thanks to several analyses, we know the possibilities for Estonia to restructure its economy in order to achieve the planned climate targets by 2050. The experts, entrepreneurs and representatives of the Ministry of the Environment presented their vision of achieving carbon neutrality in Estonia at three meetings. Based on this review, we can confirm that Estonia sees an opportunity to increase the ambition of the current climate targets by 2050, together with the other Member States of the European Union, and to agree on actions to achieve these objectives together. It is important that the approach to carbon neutrality is holistic rather than sectoral. In addition to energy, the transport, residential and agricultural sectors must be addressed. These areas affect people's daily lives much more than technological changes in individual large companies. Most importantly, however, it must be taken into account that the transition to climate neutrality takes place fairly and gradually, paying attention to the negative social impacts of the changes and addressing their mitigation. Unfortunately, there is still no agreement in society and a common understanding that the use of climate-friendly solutions means a change not only for businesses but for all people. 'The transition to climate neutrality must be fair and inclusive, because otherwise it will not happen,' said the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, before the European Parliament. The new Commission has set climate neutrality in Europe as one of its clear political goals by 2050 and has promised to present initiatives for a green European agreement within the first hundred days. The portfolio of the European Commissioner for Energy, who started work on 1 December, was acquired by Kadri Simson, our former good co-worker. This is a very responsible task, and I am pleased that it is Kadri that is the subject of luck in Europe. For the next five years, the European Commission's European Union energy policy aims to ensure secure, competitive and affordable energy supply while meeting the climate targets set at European level. Europe is facing a number of major energy challenges. A transition to clean energy is needed, energy efficiency needs to be increased, cross-border energy interconnections need to be improved and energy import dependency reduced. Dependence on energy imports is an issue that affects Estonia very strongly. The Baltic States are the last Member States of the European Union whose synchronous area is not governed by European Union law. During the parliamentary hearing of the Commission, we received an overview of the connection of the Baltic electricity systems to the central European systems. At this point, I would like to raise citizens' awareness and emphasise that thanks to the support and co-financing of the European Commission, it is possible to strengthen and reconstruct the existing lines of Estonian electricity networks, but also to build entirely new connections in such a way that it does not lead to a major financial commitment on the part of the citizens and the state. The Commission has been assured that the project will be on schedule and by 2025 the Baltic States will be connected to the rest of Europe in terms of electricity systems. Ladies and gentlemen, In the coming year, another period of long-term European budget will come to an end. Before the start of the new budget period, it is quite appropriate to look back on the achievements and lessons learned from the final period. In the current period, the European Union supports Estonia with 4.4 billion euros from structural and investment funds, plus self-financing. Contract coverage and disbursement rates vary by sector and by fund, but we are more successful than Member States on average. The largest volumes of structural resources are in the areas of business and research development, transport, small and medium-sized enterprises and the competitiveness of regions. With the help of structural tools, the Rescue Board's technical park, the heads and teachers of the educational institutions have been renewed, more than a thousand new childcare facilities have been created, the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises has been supported, resulting in approximately 2000 new jobs, and 13000 apartments have been modernised to improve the energy consumption class. These are just a few examples of what has been done in Estonia during the budget period that will end. According to a recent public opinion survey, however, the awareness of the Estonian population of the European Union's structural support remains relatively high: 76%. The impact of European Union subsidies on Estonia's development is seen as positive and the trend is increasing: 87% of people who have heard about euro payments consider the impact of euro payments to be positive for Estonia's development. In future, transparency and clarification of the sharing process will need to be addressed. The European Union's long-term budget reflects the kind of Europe we want. The objectives are ambitious and therefore we need a budget that supports an innovative, sustainable and forward-looking economic model and Europe's global competitiveness. In the new period, Estonia is moving into transition regions. We have become more prosperous and this will lead to a slight reduction in support compared to the end-of-life period and a higher level of self-financing, the positive side of which can be considered as the prerequisites for more prudent funding. However, a distinction must be made between 'newcomers' in transition regions and 'old ones' who are on the verge of entering more developed countries. We are working to ensure that when we become a new transition region, the reduction in cohesion funds and the increase in ownership will be smoother. The main objective of cohesion policy must not be forgotten: reducing territorial disparities and supporting regional competitiveness. However, Estonia's per capita contributions will remain the largest in the European Union in the next period. If Estonia receives around EUR 4 for every euro paid into the budget of the European Union during this period, then in the next period approximately 2.5 euros. One of Estonia's most important topics in the negotiations on the new budgetary framework continues to be agricultural subsidies. In the interests of Estonia, the aim is to move towards a more level playing field across Europe. In the new period, direct payments will increase, although we are moving quietly, but still towards harmonisation. By the end of 2027 direct payments will rise to around 76% of the EU average. We must continue to work consistently at every level so that the harmonisation of direct payments is faster, because our farmers compete on the same market with farmers from other Member States. At the same time, we support the creation of a more flexible system that takes account of the specificities of the Member States in supporting agriculture and rural development and ensures better preparedness for unexpected events. We must also not forget the changes that are taking place around us and global competition. We therefore support the growth of the budget for digitalisation, skills development, R &amp; D, innovation and also internal security in the new period. It is important that the various policies contribute to the achievement of the climate objectives, but we must not forget the traditional policies: the European cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy. This time the negotiations are different from the previous ones, with one major net payer leaving, the United Kingdom, and, on the other hand, budgetary priorities and challenges have changed. Internal security, education, youth, digitalisation, innovation and climate policy are priorities that need more support than before. To understand how unexpectedly and quickly some issues may become a priority, I would point out that climate issues were not so much affected in last year's speech on European Union policy, but less than a year later it is one of the most important issues. I hope that we will reach an agreement on the budget at the beginning of next year. The smoother the transition from one framework to another, so that there is sufficient time to plan funds at national level, the less the later the lack of resources, the inefficient use and the emergence of investment gaps. Agreeing at EU level is just one side of the coin. National planning processes in the Member States are essential to meet the objectives. We need to invest European Union funds in a sustainable and purposeful way so that they support the well-being of people throughout Estonia, ensure sustainable economic growth and improve competitiveness both in agriculture and in the information technology sector. Ladies and gentlemen, The policy of the European Union cannot be pursued only in the Riigikogu. Communication with other Member States has an important role to play in protecting Estonia's interests and explaining its positions. This communication is a constant one. For years, politicians from all 28 national parliaments are meeting in the Presidency Parliament. During my seven-month term of office, I have reached meetings organised by both the previous Romanian Presidency and the current Finnish Presidency. I congratulate both countries for their constructive events and wish strength to both Croatia and Germany and Portugal, who are preparing to take over the Presidency's message stick. It has also become a tradition that the president of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland will meet twice a year. It's a good way to communicate with your closest neighbors. The mapping of common interests and cooperation is only possible by communicating face-to-face. We certainly have a number of common interests with Latvia, Lithuania and also Poland, such as Rail Baltic, as well as the successful integration of the region with the rest of the European energy market. There is no doubt that, as a region, our voice will sound better in Brussels. Close cooperation at EU level awaits with the United Kingdom, whose date of exit from the European Union is set at 31 January 2020. In two days' time, elections will take place in the United Kingdom, and then it will be clearer what awaits us. One thing is clear: Estonia's main interest in the process of withdrawal from the United Kingdom's European Union is regular departure on the basis of an agreed withdrawal agreement that meets the interests of the parties. The aim is to maintain a close relationship with the United Kingdom and to maintain diverse cooperation, particularly in the economic, foreign policy and security and defence fields. A close time for negotiations on the conditions for future relations and free trade agreements awaits. Among the priorities of our European Union policy, we must not forget the Eastern Partnership countries. Estonia considers it important to keep the Eastern Partnership topic on the agenda for its part and at all levels. I am pleased to note that, like Estonia, the next Eastern Partnership Summit will be held by Croatia and will take place in Zagreb in May next year. Good listeners! The new European Commission will put in place an action plan for the European Union for the coming years. In view of the world situation, the next period for the European Union will be marked by the expansion of cooperation and opportunities. There has been talk about bringing the European Union closer to its citizens and about the conference on the future of Europe. The European Parliament, which has already set up its own working group, has already started working on this idea, and has also tabled proposals from Germany and France. In Helsinki, colleagues from other national parliaments discussed the idea of organising a new Commission conference on the future of Europe. It remained to be said that this conference could not be held without the involvement of national parliaments. It is very important that, in the context of big ideas and major events, it is not forgotten why this conference is being launched. In order to get closer to the citizens in order to bring the European Union closer to them, the focus must be on the citizens. Changes in different areas can be implemented, after all, by involving national parliaments and citizens. We in the Committee on European Union Affairs also want to get closer to the citizens. We have decided that the minutes of the meetings of the Commission must be as thorough as possible so that the whole debate on the European Union in the Riigikogu is accessible to citizens. This is essential in order to increase the transparency of decisions taken by the European Union. In today's fast world, we are also active in social media, with longer press releases and video stories on important topics. We have been mentioned in the media nearly 200 times since May, which shows that our efforts bear fruit and that the media appreciates the substantial work of ELAK. We will certainly continue discussions in the Riigikogu in order to make the decision-making process of the European Union more economical, and we intend to work in greater depth on the European Commission's legislative programme, in order to distinguish at an early stage those initiatives where an in-depth analysis of the compliance of the initiative with the principle of subsidiarity should be carried out. The intention is to deal specifically with the involvement of interest groups in the work of the Riigikogu in the decision-making process of the European Union and the possibility of holding open sessions. Finally. The European ideal has always been inspired by optimism and faith in a better future. Although this ideal has been tested on all sides, it has not been broken. That is what has given us the enthusiasm to face the challenges of the future. Once again, I thank the European Union Affairs Commission for its good work and the Government and Prime Minister for representing Estonia well throughout Europe and the European Union. The New Year will surely be busy and industrious. I wish everyone strength and thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U58	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Raivo Tamm, please! I'm sorry, these are calls. I was wrong about the tabloid. Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Raivo Tamm, please, on behalf of the Isamaa Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U59	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, Excellencys, ladies and gentlemen! The European Union has experienced many crises over the years. The economic and migration crisis is reminiscent of recent history; today we are talking about the global climate crisis. The solution to climate policy challenges cannot be to deny climate change, but policies similar to utopia and so-called 'green socialism' cannot be the solution. All these approaches threaten Europe's economic future and jobs. Our climate policy decisions must be ambitious but realistic. It should be borne in mind that the transition to a climate-neutral economy is not solely the responsibility of the Member States of the European Union; the private sector, in cooperation with the Member States of the European Union, has an even greater role to play in meeting its climate objectives, which must make substantial investments in the energy and transport sectors. Mechanisms to support such green investments need to be made simpler and more accessible, as in the long term these investments will improve the international competitiveness of the European Union. The situation of Estonian farmers cannot be overlooked, given the demonstration that is taking place here before the Riigikogu today. In order for the agricultural sector to operate in a single market and ensure a level playing field, the level of direct payments to farmers in the European Union must be equal. This must be one of the priorities of the European Union's budget talks. It is also very important that the European Union continues its enlargement policy. After all, we see the benefits and success of the enlargement policy of the European Union every day in the example of ourselves and our closest neighbours. Candidate countries that have fulfilled the necessary pre-conditions must have the opportunity to enter into accession negotiations. It is Estonia's duty to remind its partners that enlargement policy must be continued both in the Western Balkans and in our eastern partners. A positive message from the European Union to these countries will help overcome corruption and national conflicts and expand the democratic rule of law in Europe. The stabilisation of Europe's immediate surroundings and its integration with Europe are also important for the stability and security of Europe's continent as a whole. All the crises I have started have shown that European countries are able to cooperate and remain united at difficult times. However, there is one crisis that some Member States of the European Union have started to forget. This crisis is linked to Europe's value space and security. The events of the last decade in the 'European backyard' in Georgia (we have a wider name for Georgia) and Ukraine are something we should not forget. After Russia's aggression against Ukraine, we were able to find a common language with our partners and we maintained the unity of the European Union, which was expressed in the single condemnation of Russia's aggression and also in the respective sanctions policy. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U60	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U61	Thank you. It's very important. The recent decisions, be it the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to restore Russia's voting rights or the call of a European Head of State to restore dialogue with Russia, show that unity is crumbling. I am still unable to overcome the baffle of the vote in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe as many Member States of the European Union were prepared to vote in favour of the beginning of the lifting of sanctions. For a community created as a peace project, the issues of military aggression are always complex. This means, however, that this unique peace and security project in the history of the world must use its soft power to build trust and expand its value space. The soft power also includes political continuity, which means condemning all aggression in our continent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U62	Thank you. Ruuben Kaalep on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U63	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I thank both the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee for a meaningful presentation. It is good to note that the policy of the European Union of the Government of the Republic is based on the same national and traditional values that the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has fought for since its creation. These are the same values as those recorded in our Constitution and in the Supplement to the Constitution adopted in the 2003 referendum. The Estonian state can only keep the Estonian nation, language and culture independent, sovereign, and membership of any international organisation must strengthen our independence, our sovereignty. It is on this basis that in 2003 the Estonian people approved the accession to the European Union, knowing that we are part of an alliance of nation states, where independence and economic cooperation are maintained, and it is under these conditions that we can continue to be part of the European Union. For this reason, it is crucial that Member States retain the right and the opportunity to make the appropriate choices themselves in the area of climate neutrality. This allows us, among other things, to use sometimes unjustified hysteria for the benefit of Estonia, such as strengthening domestic rail connections, electrifying railways and restoring closed lines, which is essential for the lives of many Estonian regions. The Prime Minister rightly emphasised that Estonia needs a Europe that is influential, united and value-based in the world. It is precisely that we need a Europe that stands united for the same values on which the Estonian state is founded: national statehood, self-determination of nations, respect for traditions, communication with ancestors and the preservation of their heritage. It is extremely important to realise that Europe and the European Union are not only made up of systems and institutions, but primarily of European nations. As a small nation, we are well aware of the importance of preserving our national, cultural and genetic heritage. Estonia must be prepared to cooperate with all those who share similar values in Europe. If Europe is united, the future of Europe cannot only be determined by the great powers of the West, such as Germany and France, but also by Poland and Hungary, Estonia and Latvia, as well as by Ukraine and Georgia. That is why the Prime Minister rightly emphasised the importance of the Eastern Partnership for Europe as a whole. One of the great threats to the freedom of the peoples of Europe is imperialist Russia. In a situation where Ukraine is forced to make territorial concessions to the Moskovian hordes in the name of peace, the Ukrainian people who fought for freedom for over five years need the support of Europe as a whole. If we do not stop the eastern invasion of Ukraine's borders, the next and next peoples of Europe and their freedom will fall victim to it. Another threat, comparable to this, is the Western invasion in the form of uncontrolled mass immigration, which, if we continue on the scale to date, threatens to make the indigenous peoples of Europe a minority in our own country. As the Prime Minister mentioned, the approach to freedom and human rights in various parts of the world is very different. These values and world perceptions, which are characteristic of the peoples of Europe, do not have to be and will not be the same as those in Africa or Asia. The peoples of Europe have created unique cultures with unique values. That, too, is why the peoples of Europe are protected and protected. Two extra minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U64	Two extra minutes for the speaker, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U65	On the eve of World War II, the greatest thinker of the 20th century, the great European Martin Heidegger, wrote about how his ideologies, which dominated both the Communist East and the Liberal Democratic West, made the same fundamental mistake: both saw the world as a pool of resources for human use. Heidegger saw that this led not only to the unreasonable destruction of the environment but also to the loss of man's authentic way of being. But Heidegger was not against technology, on the contrary, he believed that the only solution lies in the integration of technological civilization into the national myths and archaic value system of rediscover its roots. These thoughts recorded 80 years ago are also Europe's greatest challenge in the 21st century. I wish the Government of the Republic a great deal of strength to stand up for our common values and Estonia's independence in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U66	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Middle Party of Enn Front, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U67	Honourable listeners! Good viewers! There are problems in Europe and the European Union that need to be addressed, or at least mitigated, at national, local and political level. The list of current working topics of the Committee on Foreign Affairs alone confirms how important we have to deal with. I stress that almost all plans, strategies and memoranda, which are also directly linked to Europe, have been initiated by the government. Next week, we will be discussing the China Strategy document proposed by the government, which is the first attempt to bring it together in an exceptionally wide range of topics. For the longer term, we have analysed and processed Estonia's foreign policy development plan until 2030, which is also the first but much more rewarding attempt to plan the future. Of course, this is not an easy task. World lines have changed, competition between countries and regions is strengthened, which in turn affects foreign and security policy trends. There are new and busy regions that are impressed by the pace of development of the economy, industry and services sector. The change in value in international institutions, based on established rules, is alarming in the direction of weakening. We are increasingly perceiving the populists' attacks on European values based on judicial democracy, market economy and human rights. Climate and environmental problems are major challenges. There are concerns about the risks of population and migration, which increase tensions in international relations. These topics could be discussed and discussed at length and in depth. I am looking at the central institutions of Europe, as they have just undergone a shift in the guard. The permanent President of the European Council is now the Belgian Charles Michel, who continues the work of Donald Tusk, the President of the European Parliament is David Sassol, the President of the European Central Bank is Christine Lagarde, a French woman with legal education. The European Parliament has announced a climate emergency in Europe and worldwide and is calling for the EU to reduce emissions by 55% by 2030 on the road to climate neutrality by 2050. Among other things, the resolution that has just been adopted highlights the need to reduce global emissions from shipping and aviation. This means intense work for Energy Commissioner Kadri Samson. Another resolution was adopted, which requires the European Union to present its strategy for climate neutrality to the UN Convention on Climate Change as soon as possible. MEPs believe that the Member States of the European Union should at least double their contribution to the International Green Climate Fund. There are growing concerns that the most important goal is not industrial development and enrichment, but simple but difficult to achieve in terms of climate change that threatens our planet. It makes sense for Parliament to focus on climate issues. For the first time, in the Eurobarometer survey, European citizens identified climate change as a priority in 11 countries. The European Parliament, which also includes representatives of Estonia, of the Eurocitizens' Council, should, according to the Eurobarometer survey, focus primarily on combating climate change. This study will be published in full today. The first statements of the European Commission's new composition are of interest, including the objectives and priorities of the Ursula von der Leyen Group of Commissioners. It is strongly in favour of a larger budget for the European Union that is well suited to poorer countries, which believe that the European Union should have the largest possible multiannual budget for MFF. At this point, the President of the European Commission criticises quite directly the Finnish proposals to cut the budget. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U68	Three more minutes, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U69	Indeed, it would make it somewhat more difficult to realise the European Union's strategic development plan, which has already been agreed by national leaders. According to the European Commission's proposal, the EU budget would be EUR 1135 billion, or 1.1% of the gross national income of the 27 Member States. Finland considers that the budget should be reduced to 1.07%, i.e. to 1087 billion. In a joint statement by the Prime Ministers, the Baltic States call on the EU to refrain from reducing its new long-term budget, including the cost of achieving climate neutrality. Euro-Commission Economic Commissioner Paolo Gentiloni stresses the need to consider relaxing the rules on strict deficits. In his view, this would have a refreshingly weak impact on economic growth, which is also directly linked to the risks of climate change and its reduction. This idea is strongly supported by the French President, Emmanuel Macron, who believes that the European Union needs more investment and more expansionary policies. The Heads of State or Government of the European Union will discuss the Community's multiannual budget at the Brussels Council starting the day after tomorrow. As I also represent the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I note that there have been first contacts with Josep Borrell, the EU's foreign policy leader, who was recently met by the Foreign Ministers of all the Baltic countries. Urmas Reinsalu Borrell and I discussed Estonia's plans at the UN Security Council, where we will work together with the four Member States of the European Union for the next two years, trying to take advantage of opportunities to influence global development through issues and decisions that are important for Estonia and for the whole of Europe. One of the most burning issues is the global human rights situation. There is reason to stress this separately in our debate, and not just because today is the International Human Rights Day. In the field of human rights, there are worrying trends in several regions of the planet that have been addressed both in international organisations since the UN and within the framework of the European Union. In addition to the chronic problem states, the human rights situation in the occupied Crimean Peninsula has also been addressed. The EU has held discussions this year on the Human Rights Council resolutions on Belarus and Eritrea. In the case of Russia, restrictive amendments to the law are under consideration, especially amendments to the so-called "external agents' law, which also allow natural persons to be declared foreign agents, new restrictions on access to online information and the extension of the already extensive powers of the police are problematic. The positions of Estonia have been approved by both the Government of the Republic and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu and the Committee on European Union Affairs, whose mandate has been given to the representatives of our country in Europe and the world. It is therefore difficult to separate the European policy of the Government of the Republic from the policy of the Riigikogu and the entire parliamentary state, because the MPs have helped shape this policy and have approved it after discussion and analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U70	Thank you. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please! Eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U71	Good chairman of the sitting! Prime Minister! Colleagues! We are discussing Estonia's European Union policy in its current form for the 15th time, but I will be honest with you that in recent years it has been quite difficult for me to overcome the feeling that we are not really discussing it. We have shaped a more dry technical report than this debate, where the main issue is the existence of all lines and commas, but the bearing message is missing. Why Europe for Estonia? What should Europe's goals be, anyway, what are these goals? What could be Estonia's specific role in moving Europe towards these goals? What is it that we in Estonia are most passionate about where we strive to be better than others? Europe is the world's moral backbone, which very many would like to break. There are certainly things that strengthen this backbone, just as there are things that could be in a much better tone. What is it in which the European Union is now a world leader? Firstly, certainly climate policy. A climate policy that keeps our planet a place where living is even possible. Where does Estonia take place in this most important mission of the European Union? We already have excellent new technology solutions for the world, whether it is a hydrogen power company that develops fuel cell technology or the development of supercapacitors. If the government considers climate policy to be more meaningful than slogans, then it is precisely in the development supporting such activities, but also in science, that we must invest, rather than burying any logic in taxpayers' money in the development of fossil fuels. Our small size, by the way, which is often discussed in this context, is an advantage in all climate leaps, energy and energy jumps, not the other way around. If very many large ones are concerned, because the turning ship seems to be simply huge, then Estonia, small and agile Estonia, with its smaller scale, is perfectly perfect for a demonstration country. But courage is needed, policy consistency is needed, consistency is needed. Where else is the clear leader of the European Union? Protecting privacy, human rights and freedoms. It is true that if the appetite and courage to continue to expand the European value area are to be lost, then Estonia must also have the courage to fight for those countries that have chosen a pro-European path, who have met all the criteria, but who are now sent back from the door with their noses. It is not only Hungary and Poland that we need to speak about the principle of the primacy of law; it is not only in the context of Hungary and Poland that we need to speak about it; it must apply throughout the European Union. The European Union must not become a word-breaker for the candidate countries if these countries have fulfilled all the conditions they have been given. Thirdly, the European Union has been a project of cooperation between countries of very different backgrounds. It has certainly not been free of stress and setbacks, but despite all the angry attacks, it has been stubbornly sustained. Border countries such as Estonia are, in a way, the fingertips of Europe, who often give the first signal about processes and changes that Europe should be particularly concerned about in view of its future. And what will we see in the winter of 2019? Firstly, the unification of Europe is still in progress. This concerns both physical connections to the outermost regions, the movement of services, but also the legal regime of the European Union. As has been said, talk to any company that operates in several European Member States and it will describe what different requirements still exist in different countries, how different legal regimes exist in different Member States. There is no one door from which you can enter all the Member States of the European Union, all the Member States at once. Protectionism and fragmentation have not disappeared, and that is the ghost that really needs to be fought with. If we ourselves, Estonia, the Estonian government, do not have infecting enthusiasm to be a consistent leader of the necessary changes, then Estonia will gradually become unnoticed, peripheral. Of course, you have to do crazy work, you have to convince, you have to make relationships, but a member of the government's job isn't just walking a red carpet unrolled and enjoying the sound of your voice. This is a very difficult, systematic and energy-intensive operation. Where are Estonia's new initiatives, new ideas? We have not heard of these initiatives, worse yet, nor do we have any views on other initiatives. The French President, Emmanuel Macron, has proposed a proposal on how to further develop Europe's future. Its desire is to undertake a reform of the governance of the European Union. What is the position of the Estonian Government, which is the plan of the Estonian Government in this regard? I have not heard any of this, and in honour of the truth, today's Prime Minister's speech did not bring much clarity either. If the European Union needs reform, it should start by getting rid of the internal economic barriers that still exist, the protectionism that still exist, the self-closure. Fragmentation is the ghost you have to fight. I do not know, perhaps the official confirmed position of the Estonian Government is something else or different, but then come out with your opinion, we will debate, we will discuss it, and we will not nap at the time when the future of an existential community will be formed for us. Secondly, the European Union is still weak in its security and its capacity to defend itself. And third, aging. We need a model that will encourage people to look for happiness instead of consumption by saving more and being active for longer, by being useful to others, by working. Estonia has been long ahead of other countries in the European Union in terms of employment among older people for years. Our model has been studied, desired to be taken as an example. The way in which we used to motivate older people to continue their work has been very, very appreciated in the past. The Estonian Government has now made changes that led to the exact opposite direction. Our advantage, which we have, is unfortunately being played out every day. Finally. Of course, it is also a question of money, the next European Union's seven-year budget. Once again, the question must be asked whether you have noticed whether you have heard of the passionately protected strong positions of the Estonian Government regarding this seven-year budget period. Do you even know any understandable views expressed by the Estonian Government on this issue? Right. I don't know either. But maybe it's for the best. Perhaps it is better if we sum up the debate we have held here today in the context of the European Union budget in the same way and say that if the budget money of the European Union for the next period does not turn into new opportunities to turn these changes into new opportunities, they concern both ageing and combating climate change, it will be wasted money. This is what will have to be done in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U72	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U73	Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union, after all, is an opportunity for nation states to be more united, to be a force in the global economy, to have a strong voice in diplomacy and to stand out on other issues. There are things that we can stand for and actually have to stand up for. The words 'European Union enlargement' and 'Eastern Partnership' have already been heard in this Chamber. We have this experience of what it means to society to have one big goal, what a boost will be added to, what kind of social change can be achieved by moving towards a European Union guaranteeing human rights, democracy and the rule of law. We also have a clear advantage: we ourselves will benefit and we will be able to share our experiences when we are talking, for example, about a digital single market. It is also our very clear interest that the European Union's security and defence policy should be united and that more should be contributed to it together. But on the other hand, there are a whole series of things we can't do on our own. We cannot ourselves tax digital giants, make a hero or lead future technologies, finance large projects alone, such as Rail Baltic or desynchronous electricity grid. We cannot stand alone in the world to ensure that development does not come at the expense of anyone, unfairly at the expense of someone, and to explain that it actually gives freedom, real freedom, if we have social guarantees. So we need the European Union to be ambitious. In its speech of 27 November, President Ursula von der Leyen expressed very well the ambition on climate issues, the ownership of digital key technologies and cyber security, for example, very specifically on cancer. It is in Estonia's interest that this ambition not only stays at the level of words, but also follows plans and actions and the allocation of money to implement these plans. We cannot accept that we use Chinese technology, send data to the US and pay both sides. There is a greater concentration of capital, knowledge and technology and an increase in inequality, but a very conscious effort can change this direction. But should we change that direction? Yeah, definitely. The European Union is a union of values. These values are something so fundamental that they cannot be compromised. The European Union has been built on them, and they will also guide our future. Each person must have his or her own data; he or she has the right to make decisions about their use. Smart technologies must also respect human rights; they must not discriminate. The virtual world offers opportunities to involve people, to make people talk, but there, too, rules must apply to everyone. Among the things that are needed to move towards an ambitious future, where Europe has a say in the world, I bring out two important things. Keit mentioned infecting enthusiasm, that's what's needed, of course. But first, let's get our shit together and start leading Estonia in a statesmanly manner. The Prime Minister also mentioned in his speech that shaping European politics and cooperation are part of Estonia's everyday life. That's right. For example, the budget negotiations for the new period are extremely important; they are also important for agriculture and rural areas. It is therefore extremely regrettable if the government is unable to maintain a cease-fire in the Ministry of Rural Affairs, which is the driving force behind these negotiations. The Minister must not politicise the bacteria and search for bugs, leaving farmers protesting before the Riigikogu today without the transitional support that farmers in other countries receive. There are many interesting and dangerous things in nature, but I hope that the new Minister for Agriculture will be able to find the focus and still stand up for Estonia's interests in the budget negotiations for the next period of the European Union. Next example. We have set carbon neutrality as our objective in the European Union. The European Investment Bank is most likely to become a climate bank, with high quota CO2 prices already making electricity production in Auvere unreasonable in the period. Let us now look at this honestly and wonder whether this billion euros in investment in oil shale oil production and processing is still the technology business of the future, the map to which Estonia wants to contribute its resources, and avoid causing confusion in allies and partners, avoid the issue of what we are actually standing up for, avoid the situation where the Minister of the Interior is speaking about plan B for foreign journalists, which requires the effort of dozens and dozens of people to explain, the effort of those people who could direct this energy to the European Union's greater contribution to security. Secondly, paraphrasing Václav Havel: doing things that are right, not simple or popular, doing things that we all understand. National European Affairs Committees met last week in Helsinki. They discussed the rule of law and climate issues, and these discussions will continue for the next few years. My message was that the topics we are dealing with in the European Union must not remain anything abstract, incomprehensible, distant, something that does not affect people. People need to understand what the rule of law is, what it means to them, what it allows them to do in their lives, and why we have an ambitious climate policy objective. There is a difference between telling farmers that we are now moving towards a carbon-neutral economy, in Brussels it has been decided, taking climate action, or talking about supporting the lumbering of the fields with all our common money. The less acidic soil binds carbon, is more productive, and the farmer gets higher yields and better incomes, but it also helps to meet the climate goals. We need to talk in such a way that people understand what direction we are actually going in. So I want substantive dialogue, courage and consistency in our policies, I want the strength both for the officials and colleagues of ELAK for the interesting and important discussions that we are going to have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U74	Thank you. The representatives of the political groups have spoken. The Prime Minister has asked for the floor for further explanations or remarks. The Prime Minister has every right to do so. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U75	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good listeners, guests, diplomatic corps! During my speech, a sad message came from the Czech Republic. I offer my heartfelt condolences to our allies, our friends in the Czech Republic. The circumstances are not exactly known, but any killing of people, terrorism is undoubtedly condemnable. The Czech Prime Minister has informed me that his visit, we have had to visit together Ämari's air security mission, which the Czech Republic is conducting, is canceled because of what happened in his country. Estonia is certainly with the Czech Republic and the Czech people. I will definitely visit the participants in the Czech air security mission in Ämar tomorrow and thank them for their contributions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U76	Mr. Prime Minister, tell me what happened. Because like this...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U77	What happened was that six people were killed in one town in the Czech Republic at the moment it's known who was in the hospital. It happened. But I am thinking about the European Union and why we, 28 countries, are there together. What's the one and only reason? I guess that's a different concept for different people. But I think there's a reason for peace, it's a peace project. It has worn this idea very well. It's been, I think, this root or foundation. Of course, human rights, democracy, the rule of law, the greater, the freer and the single market, but, to say the least, I think it has been a peace that the European Union has actually been able to guarantee. I thank the Riigikogu very much, I thank all the political groups in the Riigikogu once again, the Committee on European Union Affairs and its chairman, Anneli Otti. I also thank the people of the secretariat of the Committee on European Union Affairs. I would also like to express my thanks once again to my fellow officials from the State Chancellery, the EUS. Thank you for your very close cooperation. I thought the speeches here in the negotiations were very constructive, very constructive. I understand that the opposition must criticise, it must be said that nothing has been done, that the total silence is on Estonia's side. But I can't keep quiet here. I want to say my word. I don't think that's the case. First of all, we were talking about oil shale. I get it, the Reform Party says we have to abandon it, stop it, forget it. I'm not saying that. I think it remains one of Estonia's important mineral resources and resources. Of course, we need to change our carbon footprint, etc., but to say in Ida-Viru County that everything, the oil shale industry, is not, I am not ready for that. I think we need to do smarter, more environmentally friendly, and that is important. In climate policy, we really gave up title politics, we wanted to go into content, and we went into substance. I thought it was important, we achieved our goal. It is said that Estonia does not succeed; Estonia does not have any initiatives. Well, I'm sorry, aren't you listening, attending meetings, or recommending listening? How can you say that? We'll take our presidency. It is safe to say that the shaping of the future of Europe began at the Tallinn Summit, which started in September 2017 when it was dinner with President Macron. It's summarised in a strategic agenda. We've been talking really hard... I'm asking for three more minutes! We have talked very strongly about climate neutrality, we have talked about the European Union, about personal medicine, about our gene bank.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U78	Three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U79	Thank you. We have been talking about the progress of the digital society; we are firmly speaking for it. The Eastern Partnership, which has been mentioned here today, has certainly been where Estonia has been one of the focus providers, as well as enlargement and even the education system, taking into account the results of the latest PISA tests. In my opinion, Estonia has shown so much initiative. It is now said that we do not know what our objectives are in the budget negotiations or in the MFF negotiations. They've always been in focus, they've always been mentioned. But for God's sake, I can mention them again. We have made a joint return with three Baltic countries (Lithuania President, Prime Minister of Latvia and Prime Minister of Estonia). Investments to realise climate neutrality are the most important in this big package, certainly the question of cohesion, the competitive conditions of farmers (many times asked about it today, the focus was placed on it), the large infrastructure projects, the construction of border infrastructure. I personally thanked Mr Siim Kallas, who was one of the initiators of this major infrastructure project, Rail Baltic, during this debate in the Riigikogu today. I understand the opposition may say nothing has been done. But these are the big issues that Estonia stands for. In my opinion, Estonia cannot stand up for the interests of just one population group or sector in the budget negotiations. The question is, who's gonna stand by? Whether it is the European Defence Fund, CEF-Transport, military mobility, the new digital fund, investment in a fair transition, these are all important to us. We're betting on these issues, there's nothing we can do to exclude them. So I would like to say that these have been Estonia's very important positions and positions also in the MFF procedure. But I really thank the Riigikogu very much. I think it was a good debate. If they say there have been no good discussions here for three years, I wouldn't say that. I think it was a good debate, it was a sincere debate, it was an open debate, it was a dialogue. I think it has to be. There must certainly be some differences of opinion about the directions and developments in Europe, that is how it should work. I sincerely thank all those who participated and contributed to this debate today. I also want to say that, in fact, it is something special that we can hold such debates here in the XIV Riigikogu, Estonia as a Member State of the European Union, and think that it is ally relations, precisely European unity, that has actually guaranteed us good economic success over the last 15 years. But more importantly, and from that I started: I think it has also given us the assurance that we have peace. It's very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U80	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. We have discussed the activities of the Government of the Republic in the implementation of European Union policy. The Riigikogu will not take any decision to close the debate. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U81	We are going to the second item on today's agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act, which was initiated by the Committee on the Environment. The rapporteur is Erki Savisaar, Chairman of the Environment Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee, including at its meeting on 19 November, agreed to initiate a draft law amending the Environmental Charges Act. The text and explanatory memorandum of the draft act have been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Committee of the Environment of the Riigikogu. The purpose of supplementing the Act is to lay down the specificity of the Environmental Charges Act, according to which no pollution charge is levied if the substances and compounds referred to in § 17 (1) of the Environmental Charges Act are discharged into water, groundwater or soil as a result of aquaculture and do not exceed the annual amounts of pollutants that are released into the environment established by the permit. Estonia's neighbouring countries do not apply such pollution charges to aquaculture and this puts Estonian aquaculture companies in an unequal competitive position. The situation is particularly difficult at a time when sales prices on the world market are below cost. In the aquaculture sector, it is food production and, in a situation where agriculture is exempted from the pollution charge for fertilisation, the specificity of the aquaculture sector creates an unequal situation between the two primary food production sectors. Aquaculture is a sector where the creation of new businesses is linked to large investments and risks. Avoidance of tax policies other than those of the neighbouring countries will contribute to the development of the sector. As the aquaculture sector in Estonia is small, the environmental burden from farms is also low. The Committee on the Environment considers that the aquaculture sector must be given the opportunity to develop. Aquaculture allows for the creation of businesses outside large centres, provides an additional opportunity for the employment of peripheral areas and creates the potential to bring back Estonians working in neighbouring countries' fish farming. According to the Food and Veterinary Office, in 2018 58 authorised (recognised) establishments were active in aquaculture, 33 of which raised fish and 25 river cancers. Of these, 42 companies have a valid water room as of this year. A water permit shall be required when aquaculture is developed with an increase in production of more than 1 tonne per year. The Commission considers that aquaculture is a promising activity in Estonia. The Commission considers it important that the management of fish farms retains the best prospects for operating in this field and a level playing field for competition in the market both within Estonia and in other countries. The adoption of the law has no impact on the living and natural environment. The maintenance of good environmental status shall be ensured by the requirements applicable to activities under the Water Act. In addition, the fact that the application of the pollution charge is linked to compliance with environmental protection conditions will presumably ensure that companies are motivated to comply with environmental requirements. The law will have a positive impact on the development and competitiveness of the aquaculture sector if aquaculture enterprises meet all the requirements and restrictions imposed on them. The implementation of the draft is linked to the decree of the Minister for the Environment, which is being developed on the basis of the mandate rule laid down in § 131 (2) of the Water Act. The law is intended to enter into force on 1 July 2020. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U83	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. There are no questions for you. But we are now facing a problem. It's 1:00 in a quarter of an hour, and we should close the hearing. However, I have a proposal to discuss all the items on the agenda to the end today, as neither of them should take too much time. I must put this proposal to the vote. The President may also propose an extension of the sitting. So I will put to the vote the proposal to extend the sitting, but before that there will be a suffrage. Okay, now it's two minutes. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I will vote on the suggestion of the President of the sitting to extend the debate today until the agenda items are exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 49 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no one opposed and no abstentions. The proposal was supported, and we will continue the debate until the agenda items are exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. So we have the Committee on the Environment... Ah, you gotta hit it with a hammer, too. All right, the hammer's down, the decision's down! It is now time to negotiate a draft amendment to the Environmental Charges Act. Peeter Ernits has expressed his wish for negotiations on behalf of the EKRE Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U84	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We're talking mostly about fish right now. The market share of red fish is estimated at around 20000 tonnes in Estonia, consumption is 5000 tonnes and own production is only 1000 tonnes. I'm not going to be talking about the M.V.Wool fishing plant and the VTA, but this bill actually concerns a relatively small group. Currently, 42 aquaculture companies have existing water beans with a market share of just over 4 million, in particular fish farming and cancer farming. These companies had to pay pollution charges of EUR 24500 last year. So this is a draft pollution charge of EUR 24500. Actually, it's nothing, the sector is very small, but the problem is old. On June 10, last year, Rein Raudvere wrote (the title says everything about this bill): "The fish farmers are required: we pollute minimally, but we still pay the pollution fee with full iron. Why? ' And now that it's been a year and a half, the Committee on the Environment has consensually brought the draft here. Let's settle this little thing! It's a small matter, but the problem is wider. Competitors in this sector in Finland, Denmark and Norway do not pay pollution charges (I will not talk for what reasons) and these amounts are minimal compared to other amounts of agriculture, forestry, industry, etc., but we have still been demanding to pay this fee to this day. We have made our people, our entrepreneurs, more difficult. There are 4 million turnovers and the pollution charge that this sector had to pay last year was 24500! With this we have simply laid a stone on the leg of Estonian fish farmers. With this draft, we want to eliminate this injustice and to turn a little bit towards entrepreneurs. It is as simple as that, this draft pollution charge of EUR 24500. It is good that we can finally solve this problem. I'm asking for your support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U85	Thank you. No more requests to participate in the negotiations have been expressed by the representatives of the political groups. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft. Reading has been completed and the deadline for submitting amendments is 27 December at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U86	We are taking the third item on today's agenda, the first reading of the draft Act 104 on the ratification of the Investment Protection Treaty between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other. First of all, I would like to ask the Foreign Minister, Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U87	Honorable Vice-President of the Riigikogu! Members of the High House! The draft law on ratification of this Treaty concerns the European Union, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other. The aim is to mutually protect investment with a clear procedure, to safeguard businessmen's opportunities in Singapore, where there are over 10,000 companies with a starting point in the European Union and which are established there, and vice versa, to ensure that Singapore's businessmen operate within the European Union. It's been discussed for years. Last October, Estonia and other Member States signed the Treaty in Luxembourg. These negotiations were conducted by the Commission (trade matters fall within the remit of the European Commission). This agreement in itself is quite universal. It does not lead to additional financial obligations for the country; the additional procedural obligations are covered by the central budget of the European Union. It is certainly reasonable to improve business opportunities between Estonian and Singapore's entrepreneurs, apart from the business between Europe and the Republic of Singapore. Singapore's direct investment in Estonia is currently more than 130 million euros, and the opposite amount of money is two orders of magnitude less than 2.5 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U88	Thank you, Minister. There's a way to ask questions. There is no request for questions. I would like to ask Valdo Randpere, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U89	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, As Mr Reinsalu has already said, this is an agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other. I can say briefly that once again, I am fortunate to stand before you and defend a very good bill, a very good agreement. It was so good that there was absolutely no excitement or any questions in the Commission. Urmas Reinsalu gave a very good and thorough overview, even more comprehensive than a few minutes ago here. I've been looking at this deal myself, it looks really good. It exists in Estonian and English. If someone freaked out that I'm going to read this thick package right here, I'm gonna say that half of it is an English translation, so even if I read it out, it would be half as short as it looks right now. The Commission took the following decisions when discussing the draft. We discussed this at our meeting on 21 November and decided that we would propose that 104 drafts be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Tuesday, 10 December, for the first reading. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the first reading. By decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Valdo Randpere, a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the rapporteur for the draft, i.e. I. That's all I have to say to you, honestly. I would simply ask you to support this draft, just as the Committee on Foreign Affairs supported it on the basis of its competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-10_U90	Thank you, Mr. Co-Rapporteur. It is possible to ask you questions, but I do not see any wish to ask these questions, so there are no questions. Now we can open negotiations, the representatives of the political groups can express the views of the political groups on this agreement. But there seems to be no wish to open negotiations either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 104. First reading is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is on 27 December at 4 p.m. Thank you, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We have exhausted the agenda even before one o'clock, although it would be possible to sit here for another hour. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 12.58 p.m.
