ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-18_U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will start the 3rd working week Thursday session of the first plenary session. The Bureau is ready to adopt drafts and inquiries. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-18_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! In symbolic terms, I will submit the draft decision 'Proposal to the Government of the Republic for the uniform and Estonian translation of Estonian basic and school education' as the first draft. This is similar to the title of the draft discussed in the previous collection, but the draft that will be presented today is much more comprehensive in its explanations. In the previous collection, it was a pleasure to see that five of the six political parties became supporters of this idea, although at first five of the six opposed it. Unfortunately, this idea has been left out of the coalition agreement, although it was included in the electoral promises. Apparently, the new coalition is too conservative for such ideas, but we will help. We have also published alternatives in the explanatory memorandum. The timetable provides for two options: to move over in three or four years or nine years. There is no way to find justification for a longer period. We have also mapped out the problems that the executive authorities have to address in this regard (this is the work of the executive, Parliament cannot do very much here). This, of course, concerns teachers, which are also reflected in this graph, as well as the school network and educational resources, as well as possible changes to the laws, are marked here, starting with the fact that it is necessary to determine what we understand as education in Estonian. This is, of course, a thing to do for the cohesion of society, and that is why the warm support of the Centre Party is also welcome. The Prime Minister has said that he believes that social cohesion is one of the main problems. The Human Development Report has made a very strong link between education and cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-18_U3	Thank you. The draft will be dealt with in accordance with the procedure laid down in the law. Are there any further inquiries or drafts? No, it's not. I have some messages. Today, after the plenary session, the following parliamentary groups will meet in this Chamber: the Estonian-Jordan Parliamentary Group, convened by Kalle Palling, and the Estonian-Italian Parliamentary Group, convened by Urve Tiidus. President Donald Trump's group's founding meeting, convened by Peeter Ernits, will also take place today after the plenary session. Now, presence control, please! Okay. 83 members of the Riigikogu will be present this beautiful morning, missing 18. Now we should discuss what to do with the agenda, but there are no points on the agenda. So we have nothing to discuss today. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 10.04 a.m.
