ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and good ministers. Let's start our weekly briefing. First, please, let's do the presence check. There are 51 members of the Riigikogu, no 50. In today's Question Time, the following members of the government will participate: Minister of the Interior Mart Helme in the role of Prime Minister, Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg and Minister of Population Riina Solman. First, pre-registered questioners receive the floor and then the members of the Riigikogu receive the floor in accordance with the request made on the spot. There are two minutes to ask the question, three minutes to answer. Looking at the number of questions, I say that, as usual, the registered questioner asks the first question, then he gets the right to ask a more specific question and one question can be asked from the floor. If we have time at the end of Question Time, we can ask questions from the Chamber to a freely elected minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U2	But let's get to the questions. The first questioner is Kaja Kallas and answers to the Prime Minister's duties as Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U3	Thank you. Dear Mart Helme, Estonia has been the rule of law since regaining independence. The rule of law means that this country is subject to laws and that the Constitution is supreme; it is not the will and will of the people who hold the power that governs citizens, but the rules apply uniformly to everyone. Authorities are separated by one another in the rule of law. This also means that the members of the government must report to the Riigikogu as a legislative authority and follow the rules laid down by the legislator in their activities. The separation of powers also means that executive power does not go to court to report how it must apply the rules. Looking at the actions of your government's ministers, the question is that your understanding of the rule of law may be different. I'll just give you a few examples. The Minister of Finance is about to fire the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, contrary to the agreed rules, crossing his authority. Former ministers Kingo and Järvik are now refusing to respond to MEPs' questions by saying that they have already said something in the media. As a result of political cow trafficking, without any substantive justification, the Ministry's Chancellor, who has declared the illegal activity of the Minister, will be released. There are more examples. Until the Minister of Finance tells me to pay taxes as if they didn't have to. The question is, do you believe in a completely different country, a country where the one holding the power is also right? Why don't you explain to us what you think the rule of law is?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U4	Thank you. That's a very beautiful question. Unfortunately, we only have three minutes to respond, so we cannot have a deeper philosophical debate. But I refer to the golden days of the Reform Party when, under the leadership of the Reform Party, the rule of law transformed into a new feudal state, where every government member in his ministry did what he wanted to do when the ministries sub-offices became subordinate units, whose leaders also did what they wanted to do. This is the situation that this government has found itself in. We can see how in this neo-phedical society we have developed a very distorted view of the rule of law. This distorted concept is still being applied in a particularly perverted way. This means that if the head of an office does not like the minister's interest in his field, he will run to the Secretary of State and complain about the minister, on which the prosecutor's office will immediately initiate some sort of activity which will give the minister a chance to start surveillance of his family members, perhaps also. And it's become a pattern. If, in your opinion, this is in line with the rule of law, our perceptions of the rule of law are very different. In our very clear imagination, ministers who are members of the government need to be able to control and direct their agencies, they must be able to communicate with them and they must ensure that the agencies work honestly, transparently and not destructively. If we look at what is happening now around a fishing company, we will see that one of the Estonian exporters and the companies that bring money to Estonia are essentially destroyed, for completely incomprehensible reasons. The stocks of this company that could be transformed into completely safe food by heat treatment will also be destroyed. Essentially, this company will face millions of losses that this company cannot survive, and the company will be wound up. We can give a number of other examples. You will certainly also come to the defamation article published in Postimees today concerning the Minister of Finance and his activities, as a result of his efforts to prevent up to 125 million claims threatening the country from coming to the government. And now they're trying to make it look like he did something bad. You see, our understanding of the rule of law is completely different from yours. You thought, when you were part of the government, that you could do all this, but no one else could control the activities of the agencies in the country. We do not agree with this, we take on some political damage...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U6	...but we control and direct the country as we see fit for the country and the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U7	Thank you! Specific question, Kaja Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U8	Thank you. First of all, don't you get tired of you starting to answer every question by the Reform Party doing it, the second and the third. My question, however, was your own idea of the rule of law. But it seems to me that this drawing was also very clear. I'll ask you again. How do you think an official should behave in a situation where he has learned of the illegal activities the Minister is engaged in? So how do you think he's supposed to behave in the rule of law? Question two. If the rule of law has also agreed rules on the extent to which its power can be exercised, do you think that the transition from these borders is absolutely right or is it right, as your answer has given, only for the right people? Do you think the rule of law is a state governed by the right people, who, preferably by rushing ahead of your answer, are not part of the Reform Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U9	Long practice confirms that our perceptions of this are completely different. My sufficiently long experience in life confirms that it is you who have considered and still consider yourself to be the right people to interpret and apply laws in your own interests. This is my visual impression, which has been confirmed on many occasions in the last 15 years. That's part of the answer. Now the second part of the answer. What should an official do if he sees something wrong? Well, not run to the press, not run to the Secretary of State with the pretexts you've been looking for, asking for some sort of criminal activity, which, as the practice shows, doesn't run anywhere but in the sand. Please give me examples of those unlawful acts that have come to court, to judgment and to punishment. You don't have them to show, but based on the rule of law in your approach, you crucify people using the media, destroy their lives, destroy their careers and think it's the rule of law. I don't agree with that. It is not a rule of law, it is a state of arbitraryness, it is a witch-hunting state, it is a state of ideological dictatorship, and it is an official government rebellion against elected politicians. We cannot agree with that, we will never agree with it, and we will never agree with you on that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U10	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U11	Thank you. Good waitress! We do understand one thing in the same way: our understanding of the rule of law is different. It is impossible to disagree with that. Intervention in criminal proceedings, interference in the work of independent inspectorates, and, in particular, grotesque, in the event of suspicion of blackmailing the state, it is certainly not the Minister's competence, at least in my opinion. Just because you have a job doesn't necessarily mean you can set yourself up above the law. It is certainly Parliament's duty and right to monitor all of this. But my question is about your work as Minister of the Interior. The Minister of Home Affairs is responsible for monitoring and responsible for dealing with state secrets, among many other issues. My question is about the hypothetical situation. I'm just trying to figure it out. In the event of a situation where it becomes apparent that a member of the Government of the Republic of Estonia has lobbied state secrets and thus acted illegally, is that a problem, in your opinion? If this is a problem, is it a sufficient problem that this minister should resign in such a hypothetical case?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U12	Yeah, well, what can I say about writing and reading these papers? You've got a feather, and you can read your texts pretty well. Yes, our understanding of the rule of law is completely different. I would remind you that the issue of the rule of law was also on the agenda when we listened to the explanations of Taavi Rõivas in the previous Riigikogu on, for example, Arsenal's transactions, which I found to be completely unsatisfactory. You should have done the same thing, run and find someone (a member of the Riigikogu cannot make a statement to the prosecutor's office) who would have made a statement that the prosecutor's office would initiate an investigation into the facts of the Taavi Clothing and Arsenal transaction. Look, there would have been headlines, Taavi Kõiva would have been crucified, and there would have been clarity in the house that there would probably have been nowhere to be found, just as there is no current situation. If you're accusing someone of stealing the state, please indicate specifically what was stolen, who was stolen and how much was stolen. Please don't write any poems here, it's not appropriate for a vigilante. The ambassador should be guided by facts, reality events, specific individuals, but not by any indeterminate accusation. That's one thing. Another thing that certainly deserves to be discussed separately. It is precisely that, in matters of state secrecy, the Minister of the Interior is not personally accountable to anyone or anything. There are agencies for this purpose that act independently according to your own expression. If these agencies establish that someone has violated the State Secret Act, these agencies will initiate procedures, this person will be invited to an interview, the degree of violation of this person will be determined and, according to its seriousness, he will also be punished. That's the way it works, but not the way you might imagine, again, on the basis of the long-term practice of the Reform Party, that you take someone to blame, let them go, put them up against the wall. That's not how it works in the rule of law that we mean.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U13	Thank you. Taavi Clothes, is that a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U14	Yeah, that's right. Of course, I would also like to ask why the Minister did not answer the question I asked, but I understand that this is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U15	This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U16	I will then ask a procedural question, which is: how should a Member of Parliament behave when a member of the government throws some totally shitty constructions into the air about things...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U18	...to what do I have the slightest connection? In that case, do I have the right to say a reply, to make an objection? What is this right of a Member of Parliament? I would point out that I'm not...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U19	It's not...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U20	...and has never been a part of any transaction called Arsenal. What am I supposed to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U21	It's not a procedural question either, your connection to Arsenal. But the procedural question is whether you can have the floor as a rejoinder. You actually used it without having that right. You don't have it. A rejoinder is right if there are presentations and a member of the honourable Riigikogu is mentioned in the report, or it is quite clearly referred to, but unfortunately, in the round of questions and answers, our Home and Working Procedures Act does not provide a reply. Any more procedural questions? Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U22	Thank you, good manager. A procedural question to be specified. Does this mean, then, that a member of the government can be full of crap and that the members of the Riigikogu have no opportunity to respond to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U23	Thank you. This is not a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U24	Let us go to the next question put by Mr Ossinovski. Replying to the Prime Minister of the Interior Minister Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U25	Thank you. Honourable Minister of the Interior in his duties as Prime Minister. I'm glad to see you're in good shape today. If Prime Minister Ratas assures us here every time that the direction and basic principles of the country have not changed, then you will honestly say that the turn of the country will be under your leadership every day and actively. I'm asking in this context. Since you said you were a person with a long life experience, maybe you could give me such an insight. I recently met one of your disappointed constituents. This disappointment concerned the departure of Minister Järvik. He was glad that Minister Järvik left and the government could move on, but he was extremely disappointed in the way Järvik left. After all, we know that a man gets fired for his corruption-stricken acts, for lying, and for exceeding his powers, but he takes EUR 30,000 in compensation for it with pleasure. Of course, it was obvious to everyone. If, as a rule, in such cases, the Minister resigns himself so that he does not receive compensation and looks polite, then Järvik had himself fired precisely in order to get the money. Then I remembered that, interestingly, your previous Wunderkind Marti Kuusik is going to trial with the country to get the same EUR 30000 compensation for being a member of the government for one day. Consequently, there are two questions. First of all, do you not find it unfair that a minister who has been released for his acts of corruption and for his powers to be exceeded will receive EUR 30000, for example, five years of the average old-age pension in Estonia? If we add Kuusiku to this case, is it, you can say, the general principle of your party's action, that money must be drenched from the state as much as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U26	Well, Mr. Ossinovski probably has a little less life experience than I do. I do remember that no one in the first Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia and even in the Supreme Council ever, to my knowledge, refused compensation for leaving. I don't see anything deplorable in this Mart Järvik case, because completely taken from the ceiling... If the vigilante asks if the minister can put any kind of sauce out of his mouth, please don't turn the sauce out of your mouth, ladies and gentlemen. However, you are also public figures, politicians, and you should be responsible for what you say. Mr Ossinovski should also be responsible for his words when he accuses someone of corruption. No one has even been formally accused of corruption. Mart Järvik has not been charged with any charges of corruption, not the least. He has not been investigated in this regard, and he has not been convicted. Speaking of corruption, I think we can find a pretty good number of people in this hall who have been in government and for whom we can talk about some sort of corruption-like transactions. I can look somebody in the eye for quite a while. Some have even had correspondence on the Riigikogu computer. So there's a lot of corruption around here, but they look at me with a straight face, and it's not like it's a problem. So no man has been condemned except through the media. Speaking of tastes, that is, taste is very personal to people at all. So there's no way I can agree with that assessment. As far as disappointed voters are concerned, I have met a lot of frustrated voters, and many have even crossed over to our political party. So people's minds change, political preferences change. Undoubtedly, people are both rational and emotional creatures and sometimes allow themselves to be influenced by ongoing campaigns.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U27	Evgeny Ossinovski, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U28	Thank you! I'm going to be more specific. I understand you're not a very precise word user, I am. I didn't accuse anyone of corruption, I didn't use the word'sweet', I used the word'skinny'. These are two very different words that affect different senses. But I'll come back to the question. I did not ask you whether or not an official in Estonian history has given up compensation. I asked you whether you considered it fair that a person who has been found to have exceeded his mandate, who has certainly been found to be a liar and who has had doubts that he has committed unworthy acts in his office (if you want to soften what I asked for in the previous question) and who will be fired as a result of an audit carried out by the Secretary of State by the Commission, but instead of resigning himself with dignity and ending the damage to the country, he will decide to let himself go of the Prime Minister in order to receive EUR 30000 in compensation. Do you think it's fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U29	Thank you. You see, Mr Ossinovski, we did not see enough weight in these accusations and sufficient grounds for Mart Järvik to resign himself. As a political party, we supported him to the end, but we agreed with the Prime Minister that we would pass on the final decision to him. It was the Prime Minister's decision. We stood and stand behind Mart Järvik until today because we think he did the right thing: trying to find out about the maladministration that, by the way, has been a lot of talk in the press over the last few days and weeks. Farmers worry, complain and are not satisfied, farmers worry, complain and are not satisfied. He tried to figure it out, tried to get information from his own departments. The rumor that he had had an unlawful influence on someone is clearly a journalistic exaggeration, which the opposition has, of course, stricken. We disagree, we support and support our minister, now the ex-Minister, until the end. We don't think he's done anything wrong. If the Prime Minister found it necessary to create personal changes in the Ministry of Rural Affairs in the interests of the government's peace of work, we did not put a hand in it either, but we think that the Minister who, on the basis of slanderous accusations, lost his job has a perfectly clear right to compensation. He's got to get on with his life. A perfectly clear and reasonable solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U30	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You looked the members of the Riigikogu deeply in the eye and indicated that there are people in this Chamber who are involved in suspicious transactions. I hope that in the following answers you will also say some of the names and what they are related to. [[M. Helme asks you to speak louder.]] You pointed out in your reply that there were suspicious people sitting in this Chamber, and you looked deep in the eye. In your next answers, do you find time to name a few and also to name this suspicious transaction or activity so that it does not simply remain vague? When we are talking about Minister Järvik, the real question is that there is not only a legal solution but also an ethical and cognitive solution. All transactions and activities must also seem fair. If I remember correctly, there was an urgent procedure in the decision-making process for the sale of land in one of the areas that Mart Järvik led. And, oh, my God, this country was sold to his son. Maybe it seems like an extremely correct deal and maybe a jock solution, but clearly it doesn't seem very clear to society. When you referred to the fact that the chancellor ran to the journalists first, you obviously were wrong or didn't remember what had come to the public as information. As far as I know, he visited the Prime Minister in August and signaled that there were suspicious transactions. Today you're on the Prime Minister's mission. Can you tell me how you would have reacted to the words of this chancellor if he had come to you and told you that there was a minister in your government and working advisors who deal with suspicious matters? How would you have reacted?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U32	Thank you. I don't see anything suspicious about this. I haven't seen anything suspicious in those transcripts and recordings that have come to the public. I haven't seen any companies there that were somehow personalized or whose rights had been sought to protect separately and exclusively. I say it again: it's just slander, it's media talk, and it doesn't have any substantive cover. As for somebody selling a piece of land to somebody, it was long before he became a minister. I don't see any connection here. If you want names, take a list of your group and follow the finger, you'll find several names there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U34	We'll get to the third topic. The question is asked by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus to Minister Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U35	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Helme! I will continue on top of the previous question concerning the replacement of the Minister for Rural Affairs. To date, you yourself have also expressed the idea that, with the replacement of the Minister for Rural Affairs, there was a whole package of agreements that you would agree to replace your minister, and that only one part of these agreements concerned the release of the Chancellor of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and such political cleaning work in this ministry. Since you yourself have been talking about these secret protocols on your radio, my question is, what other arrangements were there, what are the contents of these secret protocols, that you were willing to let your minister out of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U36	Well, I don't know, we're probably back in 1939 when we're talking about secret protocols. There are no protocols, including secret protocols. [[A voice from the hall.]] We agreed to the release of Mart Järvik for a very simple reason: that it would be possible to restore a working peace in the Ministry of Rural Affairs. We agreed that it would be possible to move forward with the promotion of rural areas, and we agreed that it would be possible to move forward with a clean slate. We will, in principle, continue with the same policy, i.e. measures to encourage young people to settle in the country and many other measures that Mart Järvik started and started very successfully. We're gonna keep doing this. In order for us to move forward and fulfil the promises made to our constituents, we agreed to make this warlock. But it's too much to talk about some secret protocols.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U37	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U38	Thank you. This really needs to be clarified, because it has been said publicly by Mr Helme. It sounded like there was a whole package of other agreements to replace this minister, one part of which was the replacement of the chancellor, but there were other things in the agreements, which may not make sense to the public at the moment. What are the other parts of these agreements? This is my continuing question. In parallel, I also ask what political consequences will follow when a member of the government has published state secrets because of negligence, foolishness or maliciousness.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U39	Well, you were talking about secret protocols. I'm telling you, there are no secret protocols. The deal and the secret protocol are two very different things. [[A voice from the hall.]] Of course, we negotiated with coalition partners, of course we reached a certain level of understanding with coalition partners, and, of course, we wanted the policies that Mart Järvik had initiated to continue. We can then say that they are part of this package of agreements, the policies that Mart Järvik started. I have already mentioned the introduction of young people into the country, but I also mentioned that, even before it culminated in the resignation or compulsory compulsory retirement of the minister, we had a target of finding extra money for the so-called top-up. In this respect, too, we agreed that this could not stop in connection with the change of minister. There were a few other things that we wanted to get certainty from coalition partners that these things would continue. That was the deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U40	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U41	Thank you. Mr. Helme! But tell me again exactly what those things were. Several of these non-public things, let's call them an agreement, are all over the prosecutor's office, they're those things when the ministers have decided that they can command whatever they want, and that's democracy. With regard to Mart Järvik's activities, the Court has also ruled that food supervision has the right to monitor food and to make its own decisions. As far as I know, the PRIA has also been subject to criminal proceedings. The Prime Minister has said he doesn't trust Mart Järvik, but he trusts PRIA and food control. Please tell me what the weight languages were that forced the Prime Minister to satisfy your needs and your mistrust. What was the deal you traded with the Prime Minister for?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U42	Thank you. Well, everyone thinks about their own level of corruption. There was no merchandise. I said: we wanted to be sure that the current policies would continue in our ministry. If it's a commodity, then it's a commodity. Personally, I don't think it's a commodity. And once again, please don't slander me! All of you in a row, members of the Reform Party, please don't slander Mart Järvik! Mart Järvik worked perfectly honestly. Mart Järvik held meetings in which he sought to clarify the activities of his administrative offices. If that's leverage, come on! I understand that Jürgen Ligi didn't affect anything, he didn't even bother to attend the meetings of the Financial Supervision Authority, which at that time was basically known that money laundering was taking place. [[A voice from the hall.]] But our ministers are not such assholes. I'm sorry! Our ministers are people who want to understand clearly what is happening in their area of administration, want to manage the administration, want to have multilateral feedback and further communication in this area. Jürgen, I understand I went too far. I'm sorry, I shouldn't have used that word. I'm really sorry about the word "dick"! But I meant our ministers, not the other ministers. Okay. I got carried away, I'm sorry! Either way, we want to run our ministries. If you think we have some kind of new-fed situation, where everyone is the lords of the West, and all the lords of the West do what they want and the minister is not subject to the king, then we do not agree with it. We do not agree with this in any way, and we are not going to accept it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U43	Does Jürgen Ligi have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U44	Please give me some procedural advice. The Minister said I didn't attend the meetings of the Financial Supervision Authority. I didn't miss one. Please tell me how I can disprove this lie. By calling the Riigikogu from the remote, I'm used to it. But if he gets very personal about lying...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U46	... then I'd still like to know what my chance is to protect my own truth.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U47	That is not a procedural question. [[A voice from the hall.]] But you have already received the floor, and as a member of the Riigikogu, you have the opportunity to turn to the media and make statements on social media. There are all kinds of other means to make your message heard. There are absolutely no obstacles in this respect.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U48	Let's go to the next question. Question No 4, it is submitted by Jaak Juske and the answer is the Prime Minister of the Interior Minister Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U49	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr. Helme, you are before us today as acting Prime Minister. I would really like to know how our real Prime Minister, if, of course, he actually runs this government, or Mr. Ratas, would feel about how you blame the members of the Riigikogu here, how you say that if the chancellor finds out about the violations of the Minister's law, he should not turn to the prosecutor's office. But since you are still here as acting Head of Government, I am asking you for your position in this area. Your party is, as we know, supporting the piggyback of the century, the dismantling of the second pillar of the pension. Your own son, who happens to be the Minister of Finance, has announced here before the Riigikogu that one of the reasons why the pension system needs to be demolished is that scientists estimate that in 11 years' time the climate disaster will come and why people should raise money for the pension fund at all. There is no doubt that this is a very foolish statement. This is about the same statement as saying that we should not have to take children to first class this year, because 11 years from now the end of the world will come anyway. But I ask from this angle whether the position of the Minister of Finance is also the official position of the government that people should no longer have to raise money in pension funds, that climate disaster is inevitable, because the Government of the Republic is not going to take any steps to prevent this disaster.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U50	I cannot comment on this very much because I have not heard what he has said from the remote, and I am not very sure either, knowing the opposition's ability to twist words and put them in the wrong context, that this is actually true. However, I can say that the talk of this climate disaster is primarily driven by the Liberals and, above all, by the Liberals on the Left, which you belong to. In this sense, I think you should go to the mirror and discuss with each other your reflection whether or not 11 years from now there will be a climate disaster. Personally, I don't believe in it. I think I'm gonna raise a bunch more grandchildren and they're gonna live in a perfectly normal world. As your historian, you should also know that climate warming and cooling are a cyclical thing, and we cannot be sure a hundred percent that current climate warming is not a result of cyclicality. We do not know exactly to what extent it is caused by human activity, whether human activity is caused by temporary or transient, if it has lasting effects. These things aren't as one-on-one research, as the left-wing liberals and the Greta Thunbergs are trying to tell us. I think what Martin said was more of a reflection of what he heard in the hall, but I really don't know exactly because I wasn't here. As far as the second pension pillar is concerned, yes, I am a fiery advocate of its liquidation, because I am a fiery advocate of entrepreneurship, people's rational actions and the right to self-determination, unlike those who call themselves liberals. As a conservative, I think that every person should know what he does with his money, how he invests it, how long after he invests it, and so on. But not that someone's gonna take my money away from me and tell me he knows better than I do, and throw me some pennies for being able to spin my money in all kinds of funds and schemes. This is, of course, very much to the Reform Party, because you are a party of bankers. We're not a banker party. We have not asked anyone for money; we have not received money from anyone except the Republic of Estonia. That is why we believe that people should decide their own money. I've been doing this all my life with full consciousness, and I haven't done too bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U51	Jaak Juske, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U52	Thank you. Mr. Helme! Since you still represent the Government of the Republic as acting Prime Minister here, I thank you for this very honest answer. I understand that the Government of the Republic denies a possible climate disaster and does not intend to take any steps to prevent it. But I'm coming back to the dismantling of the funded pension system. It is clear that when people no longer collect their future pensions, i.e. in order for our pension system to be sustainable in the future, in decades' time, tens of thousands of immigrants must be brought to Estonia. Why has your party started to support this policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U53	Well, a pure lie again, a pure lie, because those payments that are now going to the second pillar are going to go to the first pillar, so people's pension capacity is not decreasing. This is once again such an Abracadabra story (the best finance ministers in the world know better than I do, of course), but it is all propaganda that you represent here. As far as the official position of the government is concerned, the government has adopted very clear principles of climate policy. Why have we done so, and why has our party supported it? For a very simple reason: we see here an opportunity for faster and more mass deployment of new technologies and we see that these new technologies will also reduce the need for labour specifically for Estonia, especially in certain sectors. Absolutely logical political behavior, one thing grows out of another. We don't deny, by the way, climate warming. We deny the hysteria that's built around it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U54	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable Minister! I'd like to say'sir' or'sendor', as you yourself have said in the press. You're always talking about the new-fed state order. I think what's on your mind, the tongue. It's just your desire. But I wanted to ask your opinion on the progress of introducing the pension reform in this Chamber. Martin Helme, Minister of Finance, spoke with the utmost contempt about how he gave money to a worker, this worker never pays taxes, and then he and his friends go to spend that money. It was definitely an alcoholic. Martin Helme said that he paid money under a debt-law contract, which means that the unfortunate worker, who was probably an alcohol addict, should have paid the pension fees Martin Helme. What bothered me about that opinion was how disdainful he was of the simple people who were affected by alcohol problems. Isn't that the sensual and neo-fedic attitude?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U56	Again, you put me in an awkward position in the sense that I wasn't there. I also haven't watched in the video what was said here, what was asked, what was answered, and what was the context of all this. But I assumed that someone in this hall would ask this question, and that is why I asked Lasse Lehis, who should be, I think, a better tax expert than most in this Chamber, for an opinion on this. It is precisely because the tax administration has already pushed some kind of abracabra and, in fact, has once again spoken the half truth of the tax administration. And what did Lasse Lehis write to me? 'The withholding tax is governed by § 40 and 41 of the Income Tax Act. Paragraph 40 (1) of the TUMS provides a list of persons who are obliged to respect income tax on distributions, and § 41 contains a list of the types of distribution. Income tax withholding agents are also mentioned as self-employed or employer, but § 40 (3) states that a self-employed employer (who is not registered as a self-employed person) is required to retain income tax only on the payments referred to in § 41 (1) and (2), i.e. on fees paid under an employment contract. The fees payable under a contract of employment and a contract of command are mentioned in § 41 (3) which means that those fees are not subject to withholding tax on a private customer. The beneficiary of the income shall self-declaration of the fees received. ' It's all legal, it's all right. Besides, I don't know anything about this guy or any of these jobs, and I don't know how to comment anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U58	Thank you. Let us go to question 5 by Liina Kersna. Reply by Riina Solman, Minister of Population. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U59	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I understand we're allies with you to stand up for clinical psychologists. Unfortunately, in the coming year's budget, the coalition voted very decisively on the proposal to finance the professional year of clinical psychologists. As far as I know, you tried to influence your colleagues here in the Riigikogu or to explain to them why it is important to support the professional year of clinical psychologists. I have failed to explain to the people why the coalition does not support this proposal. Why don't you help? How did your colleagues from the Isamaa Group justify why this is not a good proposal, why should the funding of the professional year of clinical psychologists not be supported?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U60	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Liina Kersna, for the question. Indeed, we are on the same line as you on the question of clinical psychologists, and I think we are on the same line as other members of the Riigikogu, because the mental health of the Estonian people is obviously a common concern for all of us. Surely the politicians of the Fatherland are also in favour of this. But the priorities of the ministries and also of the Riigikogu were different at the time. I also cannot comment on the priorities of all ministries because I have no information. However, I can tell you that at the time these negotiations were held, we were looking for solutions with Minister for Social Affairs, Tanel Kiige, and some of them are also in work. Perhaps we have the hope that in the new budget period, 2021. These concerns will be taken into account in 2006. Maybe, too, if the picture turns up, a little earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U61	Thank you. Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U62	Thank you very much. Yes, in words, both you and the Minister of Social Affairs have really expressed their support that the professional year of clinical psychologists should be funded. The coalition decided to spread 4 million euros of roofing money. If this so-called 'roof money' is divided into five factions in the Riigikogu, it will be EUR 800000 per group. With this money, the professional year of clinical psychologists could be financed for two years. However, I ask you: do you think that sharing these regional investments is more important than providing training for clinical psychologists?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U63	Honourable member of the Riigikogu, thank you for your question. I consider regional investments to be important. However, by commenting perhaps on a little support for clinical psychologists at the expense of regional investments, which you have also offered, I can say that I happened to listen to Kuku Radio that day, where your party partner Maris Lauri spoke of his preferences. He felt that this support should have been directed towards the salaries of teachers. Perhaps it would be good for us to agree with each other the next time and stand together as a front line for clinical psychologists.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U64	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U65	Thank you, good manager. Madam Secretary! Yesterday was a very nice day, Estonians were able to celebrate because the results of the Estonian PISA test are excellent. The extra positive is that children's satisfaction with their school environment and their sense of well-being were also very high. I believe there has been a reason. This is also the reason for quite a number of evidence-based programmes that are implemented in our schools, whether Kiva or VEPA. And that's the problem with VEPA. VEPA has so far been funded through the Ministry of the Interior from the European Social Fund and will end at the end of this academic year. From September 1st, in the new academic year, this great game of behavioral skills can no longer be offered to children in our schools. 127000 euros, it was also proposed in the Riigikogu to find this money during the budgetary procedure, but the coalition did not support it. Can you explain and perhaps confirm that you will do everything you can to ensure that these resources will be found next September, next year, at the expense of the internal resources of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U66	Dear Member of the Riigikogu Signe Riisalo, thank you for raising the very necessary question. Indeed, I have twice made an additional request for funding the same VEPA game in the budgetary procedure, both in the spring and now in the autumn. I have also been assured from my house that, until the end of this academic year, these funds really do exist. I agree with you, I am concerned, and I will do everything in my power to ensure that the program supporting the Free School is funded.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U67	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U68	Next, question 6, tabled by Marko Mihkelson. The answer is Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Good Shadow Prime Minister! I have a question for you. Just at the beginning of Question Time, you spoke emotionally as appropriate to you that you or your party and a large part of Estonian society have different concepts of the rule of law. I think this is a very dangerous statement, also with regard to Estonia's security. As a historian, you know very well what happened before and during the Finnish winter war. Finland resisted the attack of the Soviet Union primarily because Finland was a democratic parliamentary rule of law. Even now, Finland, as our Nordic neighbour, sets a very good example in resolving the internal political crisis at government level: the Prime Minister took responsibility for his words being understood in a way that prevented the coalition from continuing, perhaps a situation of distrust. What do we have? We have a situation where the government minister, in his duties as shadow minister, calls Parliament, calls him brain-dead, threatens us with investigations by the defence police. It is a powerful impression that you would like Estonia to be not a democratic rule of law, but a family autocracy. Why do you think it is particularly difficult for the current government to feel that it is also appropriate for a democratic state, a parliamentary state, to have a degree of political responsibility and the duty of ministers to take it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U70	I am so sorry, I did not understand this question at all. All countries are different. Finland is a different country. Finland was a great prince of the Russian Empire and had autonomy. The Finnish political system has long developed before any talk of statehood began in Estonia. Finland was in a completely different situation during the Cold War period than Estonia was a Soviet Socialist Republic. The drawing of such parallels is completely arbitrary and their connection to the rule of law and the functioning of the rule of law in Estonia is even more arbitrary. Our views on the rule of law differ for a very simple reason. One side of our political elite, let's say so, imagines that the rule of law is if they can do what they want to do, but the other side cannot do what the laws require them to do, and if they are to do so, they must be slandered and not only in the domestic media, but also in the international media, they must be spoken upon, completely unwarranted pursuit, eavesdropping and prosecution procedures must be initiated. We are not on the same line with this rule of law, and here comes our disagreement. If the vocabulary of the beautiful Estonian language is not to be understood, then a slightly sharper vocabulary must be used. Although I have deep doubts after seven months, which I have been in the government, that even with the use of sharper language, one can understand what is really going on here. In fact, we are talking about what Thomas Alatalu wrote yesterday or today in a very simple and understandable way. The whole point, the whole point of this whole rule of law, is that the Reform Party needs to get back to power. But we don't agree. We're not gonna let you get to power, guys! We're not gonna let you take over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U71	Marko Mihkelson, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U72	Thank you. I do find it a little strange to hear such an answer from a person who quite well knows history and also knows why Finland defended itself in 1939 and perhaps why Estonia failed to do so at the time. But that's it. Estonia's security is very clearly linked to the perception of the democratic rule of law in society as a whole and even more so, of course, whether it is also followed by the Government of the Republic, or whether it is done by its members. In the last seven months, you have taken a series of steps in your rhetorical behaviour, but other members of the government have also done so, which have undermined Estonia's international positions. You know very well that there is not much room for making mistakes in the geopolitically seismic area where Estonia is located, as the current government has made. My good friend from Finland said only recently that he does not recognise Estonia, looking at what has taken place in Estonia in the last six months. In the past, news about Estonia as an innovative country, a country that is taking exciting new initiatives, a country that is one step closer to the Nordic countries, was still on the news. Now one scandal is chasing another and, in fact, Estonia is looking for such a rule of law in self-insulation somewhere. The question is this: why are you pushing Estonia into dangerous self-insulation for Estonia's security?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U73	I will ask the same question in return: but why do you divide Estonia, why do you slander the government? Why do you speak to the government in the foreign press and meet with the leaders of your so-called sister or brother parties, meeting with the leaders of ALDE? Why was Kaja Kallas like politruuk next to him when the middle party was interrogated in ALDE? Why? Why? Why are you doing all this? Why are you defying your country? Why do you defamate the government's policy of being elected by the people in elections and being entirely legitimate as a result of transparent negotiations? Why are you doing all this? I ask you this question: why do you destroy Estonia, why do you do in Estonia what the Democrats in the United States do? Once again, I suggest you read this article by Toomas Alatalu, which brings very nice parallels between Estonia and the United States. The scales are, of course, insanely different, but the political pattern is exactly the same. Why are you doing all this? Why are you breaking Estonia? I will answer you why you are breaking Estonia: in the name of power. But we will not give you this power because you are breaking Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U74	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U75	Thank you. I will then continue on the subject of the destruction of Estonia, Mr. Acting Prime Minister. The Minister of Justice sitting next to you had to hear that the DA's office was launching arbitrary investigations. The Minister of Defence of your government must be required to observe how your government's Minister of Finance works in the interests of a particular entrepreneur and against Estonia's security. The Minister of Finance of your government now announced through the press that Estonian radar is not actually working. It's a very good announcement to the potential enemy that now is the time to come. As if it wasn't enough that your minister was working to make sure that this radar didn't show the right thing, in the interests of a particular entrepreneur. What is your assessment of this statement by the Minister of Finance that there is no air protection in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U76	I don't think he said anything like that. I know that during some sort of negotiation, wind power businessmen have claimed that these radars aren't working. The source may be referred to by Martin Helme if necessary. [[A voice from the hall.]] He didn't say anything. It's just as if it's not true that he was representing some kind of company and that there's some kind of corruption here again. It's just not true. He has today provided explanations and posts where he lists how many different companies, various interests, he has met during the months he has been in office. This amount is amazingly large. On top of everything, on top of everything, Jürgen Ligi! Jürgen Ligi! Jürgen Ligi can come in later and talk about this remote as much as he wants, as the chairman says. But right now I'm talking, I'm talking, Jürgen Ligi! Shut up, please! Shut up, please! I can't answer, I can't answer. There's no need to pry all the time there. [[A voice from the hall.]] I answer, I answer, I answer: there is no corruption here. If the Minister of Finance, together with the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Minister of Information Technology and who else was there, sits and tries to figure out what the problem is and how to prevent the state from getting a $125 million damages claim, but is being tried as corruption, then somebody still has a very big short circuit in the brain somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U77	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U78	The next question is Question 7. The questioner is Signe Riisalo and answers the Minister of Population Riina Solman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U79	Thank you, good manager. Madam Secretary! It's kind of hard to go on the emotional ground that the Minister of the Interior has just hunted up in this Chamber, but I'm trying to stay calm and do it. The Social Insurance Institution's Child Welfare Department has provided this year's information about the proportionality of the requests. There will be complex child protection cases; 20% of them will be custody disputes. In 2018, there were custody disputes that came to court, 1234, maintenance claims 2544. This means that 40%, or a very, very large proportion of children in need, are in trouble because of their parents' disputes about raising children. Family mediation is, of course, an old and well - tested way to reconcile parents in order to make agreements that guarantee the well - being of children and maintain relationships with both parents. In Estonia, family mediation started in the mid-1990s, but so far it has not been achieved that it is part of our legal system and the child protection system. Therefore, I have a question as to when family mediation could be implemented and what activities are planned for it, and on the other hand, what kind of resource is planned for it and what source of resources is it, whether it is a state budget or whether it is an external resource.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U80	Dear Member of the Riigikogu Signe Riisalo, thank you for asking a very important question. Family mediation has been eagerly and for years. Perhaps I need to be more specific in terms of terminology, because we are also being heard outside this Chamber, because family mediation does not mean reconciliation of relationships, but it means shared parentality, or the issue of child custody will be resolved by pre-trial or out-of-court methods. But I'm going to be more specific about this emotional mess. I too find it difficult to answer if there is such an argument between the parties because emotionally the background is elsewhere. But I would point out by supporting my colleague from the government that this is a two-way street. We talked about the VEPA program earlier. I often feel that in the case of children, we are talking about the prevention of school bullying, but this school bullying is being passed on to bullies between adults. It's a two-way street, though. But I'm going back to the subject of family mediation. The intention is to put forward a memo to the government, namely an action plan, or proposals that the government should make for the national introduction of family mediation. The trend is that it should be a national conciliation service, which would reduce the burden on the courts. For this purpose, funds are foreseen for 2022. In the meantime, we will develop this measure. There is a need to be very precise, rather than three or even nine times, so that the service can be good and help both adults and children. Will the funds come only from the state budget, or can we use other financial mechanisms? Here, too, the answer is forward-looking. Maybe both.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U81	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U82	I understand that you cannot say these amounts on the euro, but it is important to know which orders of magnitude we are talking about. The budgets for the next few years will also come to this debate in the Riigikogu and it would be good if we could get an idea of the necessary resources. As a booster, I also appreciate a bad solution when a service provided by the state is paid out of external resources, from any source, because the moment will certainly come when we have to get out of this situation. Maybe it's rather bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U83	Dear Member of the Riigikogu Signe Riisalo! You are a specialist in this field, you have worked in these professions and you certainly have much more accurate information. You're probably right about a lot of things. We can work together and exchange information. At present, funds are planned as follows: 1.5 million from 2022. On average, a couple of five counselling services are needed to solve the issue of shared parenthood, with € 540 to €600 costing them. Here, too, there are different sources of funding. Local authorities sometimes come to support parents. The goal is shared by all: so that children can suffer less and the mental health of adults is also maintained. In any case, the measure is necessary, but we are still discussing the financing models.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U84	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U85	Thank you. Good Minister of Population! I am pleased that you have also drawn attention to an important issue such as school bullying. Indeed, prevention must be addressed. This is one of the topics that has also been pointed out in connection with the recent PISA report that this issue needs to be dealt with very strongly in Estonia. I believe that it is perfectly appropriate that your parallel is also that this discussion today, and in particular the statements made by Minister Helme, can be compared to the school talk. How else can I express this when the minister says'stucks' to Members of Parliament,'shut your mouth' to the Member? A few weeks ago, the term 'brainy' was used for Parliament; yesterday another minister used the word 'lumpen' for the people of Estonia in this remote area. Yes, indeed, a very large part of school bullying is verbal. I agree with you that what is going on here, namely from your colleague, Mr Helme, is exceptionally embarrassing and comparable to a very important issue such as school bullying. But since there are no more specific questions registered, I'm going to ask you a little bit about another subject. You, too, are a member of the government, with exactly the same rights and obligations as everyone else, and you also know the obligations of government members in handling state secrets. My question is very simple. This does not necessarily concern any particular example, but concerns the 'general principle'. If it should appear that the Minister, a member of the government, has made public declarations of state secrets, do you consider this condemnation worthy, and if you consider this condemnation worthy, is that, in your opinion, a sufficient reason for the Minister's resignation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U86	Dear Member of the Riigikogu, Taavi Rõivas, thank you for pointing out the issue of school passion. This is an important subject. As adults, we set an example for children. I stress once again that this is a two-way street. My colleague Mart Helme actually answered the questions and the questioners are members of the Riigikogu. I, now to help my former profession, the position of head of class, invite everyone, both questioners and respondents, to courtesy, respect. Together, we may be able to send calming signals from this hall to society. But in answer to the question of state secrecy, yes, in order to answer what you want to know more, more precise information is needed. If state secrets have been mistakenly spoken out, I think that condemnation is not appropriate, but I do not know exactly what you are talking about, so I cannot judge. Perhaps you will clarify your question again so that I can give a more direct answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U87	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue. I would like to remind my honourable colleagues that, as Minister Solman said, communication is bilateral. If you want to be treated with respect, then you would ask for the same approach to ministers and respondents. Taavi in the garment, is it a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U88	Mr President! A procedural question about your current reply. We gave some examples of inappropriate use of words by a member of the government:'stupid', 'brain death','shut your mouth! '. Excuse me, but what exactly are you complaining to the questioners? Is it your starting point that both the bully and the persecutor are equally guilty of school persecution?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U89	This is not a procedural question. I reacted to Jürgen Ligi's disorder, who repeatedly interfered with the respondent, as well as to many other expressions from this hall, both today and before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U90	But let's go to the next question. The questioner is Andres Sutt and the answer is Mart Helme, Minister of the Interior. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U91	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of the Interior in charge of the Prime Minister! I've been listening to this briefing very carefully today. Your answers make it look like everyone's against you. You're saying there's an official government rebellion against elected politicians. In your Sunday radio show, you said about the Ministry of Rural Affairs: 'All the corrupt, unmanageable, selective, and whatever they do, officials are blaming the minister who wanted to put them to work. ' You said here today that Mart Järvik has done the right things, and this is all a journalistic exaggeration. At the same time, let's look at the Secretary of State's report. The Commission found that the Minister for Rural Affairs and his advisor had tried to intervene in the monitoring of the Food and Veterinary Office, which exceeded its competence. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has said in the light of this very case that it should not be transformed into a pattern, it should certainly not happen, the Estonian official body is, in his opinion, professional and he will certainly support them. It seems to me that there is a very big contradiction between the two sayings. When Minister Järvik intervened in the activities of PRIA and VTA, the Prime Minister dismissed him. When Minister Martin Helme intervened in the role of Minister of the Interior and wanted to illegally release the Director-General of the PBGB, he remained in office. If it turns out that any of the ministers have intervened outside their administration, just as according to current Postimees, Finance Minister Helme has done, do you think that such a minister will also be dismissed from office or will it depend on any other circumstances, such as party membership and position in the party? What is the government's position on such a matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U92	I understand perfectly well, and I think I've even said in this hall that we can see very clearly what the pattern is. The pattern is one by one for the ministers of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, with the help of the media's slander to let them hole up, remove them from office and in this way pave the way for the collapse of this government and to create a new government with the participation of the Reform Party. It's this pattern, there's no other pattern here. If the Minister of Finance must not interfere with the work of his subordinates, if the Minister of Rural Affairs must not interfere with the work of his subordinates, if the Minister of the Interior must not interfere with the work of his subordinates, what is the point of ministers? [[A voice from the hall.]] It's not. Right! Kid's mouth said no, there's no point. But we don't want to agree with this in any way. We are of the opinion that the Minister is obliged to lead his field, the Minister has authority, and the public expects him to lead his field, to put his field in order and not to allow the officials to act in the field, as we have seen very clearly in the field of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, where not only does our minister say this, not only does his advisers say this, but also simple farmers, members of the family of simple farmers say that there is so much arbitraryness, so much evil, vengeance, abuse of power, that it cannot be accepted. If the Minister tries to change this situation, it is perfectly understandable that there will be an official rebellion against him. And it is extremely regrettable that this mutiny of officials will be allowed to roll from one ministry to another. I don't know what else to answer. As far as Martin is concerned, you want to make it clear to me that the Minister for Finance, who knows that the country is at risk of 123 million, maybe even greater, but perhaps a smaller financial requirement, to which he must start to find cover, exceeds his powers if he is dealing with it, that it is a breach of powers if he tries to involve the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Defence and other ministers and officials in finding a solution. Is this a breach of authority? I really have a question: but why do we even have a government? I know the chancellors meet every Monday. Then let the chancellors rule this country, let them run all the processes. They will never have to worry about, like you in this Chamber, whether the people will give a mandate next time or take it away. Let the chancellors run the country. They're the smartest, they're the most honest, they're the most responsible, they're the most competent. Do you realize that this is a misguided way of thinking? We disagree, the ministers of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia disagree. We intervene and remain involved in the activities of the agencies within our sphere of administration if we consider it necessary if we see that things are not working there...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U94	...and there needs to be a change.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U95	Thank you! A more specific question, Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U96	Thank you. Mr. Helme! It was very clear from your response that, if you consider it necessary, you will continue to intervene in the activities of agencies, ministries and independent inspections. I think that in this case you are still greatly undermining the foundations of the rule of law. When we talk about officials, officials have taken the oath of office, just like, by the way, members of the government, that they will remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I think this is the key for officials and ministers, or at least for one thing. I think it is most regrettable that you are responding to ministers and officials. It does not contribute in any way to Estonia's development, to Estonia's national independence, to its strength and is certainly more of a threat to our security. I have such a simple question for you: why are you doing all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U97	I have a very simple answer: because, under the leadership of the Reform Party, the country reached full stagnation, a neo-fedal situation that I described earlier. I would like to know where you have taken the fact that the agencies are independent. Independent of whom? Independent of what? Where are they independent? If my ministry offices include the Defence Police Department, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Alert Center, the Rescue Board, are you saying that I am not allowed to deal with these matters at all? That I'm not supposed to say, my dear friends, that you have some problems there? That it's only my job to stand up for them to get public funding, and the rest of it has nothing to do with me, because it's already an independent intervention? Well, there's no such thing. Then we have to start with definitions. But what is the definition of independence for ministries? Let's define it. Independence is from this border to this border, but it's not like if the Director-General of the Office doesn't like anything, he's gonna run somewhere to complain, and then they're gonna say, oh-oh-oh-oh, it's serious, the DA's office is gonna start some kind of investigation. That's absurd! That's not how the state works, that's how the state can't work. But this is a manifestation of the stagnation of your country.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U98	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Your good colleague pointed out that we should be polite. I haven't heard anyone rude from this big hall today. But I think you're provoking over the fact that the opposition represents 100% independence. Certainly, a minister or a high-ranking official cannot go into office and overturn scientifically proven monitoring processes or methodologies that try to defend public health, for example. You have also attacked the PRIA and the Minister has been very critical. Yesterday, in the Committee on Rural Affairs, there was a director of the PRIA with representatives, including your group member Merry Aart, who heard what was said there. A number of cases came up when the conduct of the PRIA, despite the fact that you have publicly criticised it, has found very clearly support. This showed that there is no room for companies or farmers, or, no matter what, people who are trying to defraud taxpayers' money, in the so-called call for proposals. They are being dealt with very actively. If you claim that it is perfectly normal if, with the Minister's knowledge, ministerial advisers with the right hand represent the country and with the left hand represent the company, and they go to court with each other, there is something very wrong. If the chancellor went to the Prime Minister because of this, I think this was an extreme example in the Republic of Estonia. Why, in the case of today's government or your ministers, have these examples developed as such, why have officials had to behave so extremely?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U100	The answer is very simple: because a large number of officials have been set up by you. Thank you. [[A voice from the hall.]] By the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U101	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U102	Next, question 9. The questioner is Hanno Pevkur and answers Minister of Justice Raivo Time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Justice! It seems to me that we are in this hall in two parallel universes. The Minister of the Interior, who performs the duties of Prime Minister, does not appear as Minister of the Interior, but as Prime Minister, takes positions on behalf of the government, bravours, arrogances and insults the entire official body of the country, and it seems to me that the country and the people of the country as a whole. The Prime Minister's duties are the Minister of the Interior, both today and in the past, and his son, the Minister of Finance, in my opinion, has repeatedly appeared with statements that weaken the security of the state. Let only the last example of Martin Helme's own words about the Postimees today: 'One of the state secrets I have heard is that the Kellavere radar just doesn't work. But go and get that state secret. ' In addition, the Minister of Finance thinks the attitude of the Ministry of Justice official you run is pretty depressing. Listening to the views of the Prime Minister on the rule of law in his duties today, the least that can be said is that it seems to be a conflict of value between the government and the state, both within and across the government. But more seriously, the Minister of Finance may even be a crime if he actually published a state secret. Mart Helme also said here that the Minister has responsibilities. Of course, this also means respecting the rule of law. I'd be happy to listen to the Riigikogu here today...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U104	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U105	Yeah, I am. ... before your approach to the rule of law and your attitude towards the Minister of Finance, for example, when he published state secrets.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U106	Thank you, good questioner! My approach to the rule of law is that the rule of law works when the rights of its citizens, either the rights arising from the constitution of their country or the obligations arising from international obligations and treaties that the Estonian state has assumed, are guaranteed in Estonia, whether at the legislative level, at the level of the government or at the level of the judiciary. These are the basic principles in which the rule of law functions. If an error occurs at one level or another, it is indeed necessary to discuss whether the rule of law is working or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U107	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, is there a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. On two occasions, Minister Helme has exceeded the prescribed time by more than 30 seconds, in this case you interrupted a member of the Riigikogu in the first second when he exceeded the time. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that they also have a time limit.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U109	Thank you. I drew Minister Helme's attention to the fact that he exceeded time in the same way. Next, I would like to ask Mr Pevkur a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U110	Good meeting manager! I would point out that you started saying this even before two minutes were up, but you can review it after the video. Good Minister of Justice! However, I did not receive an assessment of the Minister of Finance's words and state secrets. State secrets cannot be disclosed because of error or by accident. When a state secret is published, it must be followed by a procedure. However, I would also like to get a concrete assessment from you of what the Minister of Finance has said. As a member of your Security Commission, you should know whether or not it was a state secret. If it was a state secret, the prosecutor's office should start proceedings, if not, then perhaps you can assess whether this is worth the condemnation or not and whether the minister should resign. But I'd also like to hear your answer to the rule of law, so maybe you can clarify a little bit. In my understanding and common understanding, the rule of law does not include having power, its right, but 'rule of law' in the so-called international language, i.e. the fact that it behaves in accordance with the legislation in force. How do you assess the compatibility of both the Minister of Finance and the sitting Prime Minister on your left hand with the rule of law and the compatibility of these principles with what they have previously expressed here, also with those positions that threaten Estonia's security?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U111	Thank you, questioner! Well, there were a lot of questions, a lot of questions. As far as possible state secrets are concerned or leaking is concerned, it must, in particular, be assessed by specialists from the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces. It seems to me that this was such a euphemistic, expelled statement, that no specific sources were referred to there, that it was just a rumor. Well, I guess the Department of Defense and the Defence Forces need to assess how true that statement was. I can't comment on that. You referred to the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic. In the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic, I would argue, at least at the meetings I have been in, there has not been any discussion of the state of the clock's radar. The next question was once again the rule of law. That is exactly what I said: I believe that the rule of law will work if citizens' rights are guaranteed at all levels of the so-called separate branches of power, be it legislative power, be it executive power or be it judicial power. Ensuring rights means that the existing standards are in place and that they are the life and the circumstances that are happening. I cannot read more about this issue than about the functioning or non-functioning of the rule of law. What more detail would you like? If you ask for my assessment, I have repeatedly replied that I believe that Estonia is a rule of law and there is no reason to worry, as the rule of law would not work in Estonia. Of course, the debate on the rule of law and the rule of law is not just about us in Estonia and in this Chamber. Yesterday I was present at the Justice Council, and there was talk about the rule of law and the rule of law, about how much the rule of law must be dealt with in the Justice Council at all, or about the extent to which it must be limited only to the General Affairs Council. So these issues are dealt with quite widely and widely. But I did not receive such a signal from these discussions either that there would be any serious problems with the functioning of the rule of law in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U112	Thank you. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U113	Thank you. I cannot agree in any way that if there is no reference to specific sources when it comes to state secrets, that the problem would be somehow less. No, it's not. It does not matter whether Simm, Dressen or all those who have published state secrets have done so by referring to sources, in plain language or otherwise. This is in any case a criminal offence in the Republic of Estonia, and this is not something that the Minister of Justice can easily take in office. So not only do we need an assessment of the specialists in the Defence Forces, but we also need an assessment of you as Minister of Justice and a member of the government. What matters to me is that the Minister of Finance, Helme himself, has declared state secrets. I quote once again: 'One of the state secrets I have heard is this... ', and then he spoke of the state secret he had heard, and it was listed in the paper. Since I am not in the habit of lobbying state secrets, I am not quoting it, although it is true that it has been published in the paper, so, unfortunately, it is available to everyone. Whether this is true or not, it is not even important, as it has now stated to the paper itself the view that it considered it to be a state secret. I will ask you once again for your assessment as Minister of Justice. If one of the members of the government says he has published state secrets, does it deserve to be condemned? If it deserves condemnation, what would be the appropriate response?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U114	Thank you, good questioner! We can stay here and not stand up for what one person or another thinks. Of course, if the state secret is actually made public, then it must be responded and processed accordingly. But whether a state secret has been made public can only be assessed by the person who created the state secret. I believe that you have read so much the State Secret and the Secret Foreign Information Act that you know exactly what the procedure for conduct with state secrets and classified foreign information provides: who can classify something, who can take away the secrecy and who can also assess whether or not there has been damage to the Estonian state secret. If anyone claims to know some kind of state secret and is going to talk about it, it may not be a state secret. Far from it, this statement may not be the same as the issue of some kind of state secret. So once again, the assessment of whether it was a state secret can only be made by someone who has created this state secret.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U115	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U116	Next, question No 10, tabled by Mr Ligi and answered by Minister Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U117	Thank you. Mr. Helme! You have been highly critical of the Western security architecture and also of the value space it is designed to protect. Alternatively, your party has worked with other similar parties in Europe. Your vice-chairman has been so specific that he has said that you are developing a relevant alliance in Europe, and he has also appointed specific political parties. A common feature of all these parties, not to mention the values, is the confrontation of the European Union and, in fact, is increasingly anti-NATO. Similarly, NATO-criticism is common in your party's speeches, not to say otherwise. Their common feature is that they have close links with the Kremlin, friend ties, agenda links, financial ties. You yourself have gained your diplomacy experience in Moscow. Please tell me how far you are from building this alternative security architecture and how your international cooperation is progressing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U118	I don't know, it's kind of a fantasy. I just don't know how to comment. I just can't comment. All sane people, who not only read the Estonian news, which is all distorted, filtered, somehow stewed (read British sources, read American sources, read German and French sources), all of them have expressed deep concern about the cracking of NATO and European security architecture. But if I dare to speak about it in Estonia, then I am an agent of Russia. I am not allowed to say that Turkey's position in NATO is now very, very dangerous to Estonia's security! Turkey's demand that, as a trade, we recognise the deaf as terrorists in order to recognise our defence plan, is fatally dangerous to NATO in the long term. Talking about it and pointing it out that France is once again running some kind of route in NATO, that is to say, being a Moscow henchman! Hey, people, come to your senses! Look at the real world, don't just cling, as I said last time, to some kind of stamp, based on a certain way of thinking! The world is in a very difficult situation, and you can't talk about it, you're kidding, you have to talk about it and constructively! With regard to alternatives, see for a miracle, no more than the days of the week went by when the Commander of the Defence Forces, Mr Herem, said that we need to step up defence cooperation with our Baltic neighbours and Poland. Holy shit! Let's let go of the day, NATO subversive! That's your logic. It is not a subversive of NATO, it is a thinker in the right direction, it understands its concerns and it seeks solutions. But you're not looking for solutions, you're only driving some kind of political rhetoric, which is absolutely not adequate. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U119	Jürgen, Ligi, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U120	Thank you. I actually asked how far you were from developing your alternative, because the first speech on Plan B was laughed out in neighbouring countries. They're not developing a plan with you, the Secretary of Defense denies its existence, the Prime Minister denies its existence, but you're still developing it. Jaak Madison, vice-president of your party, has spoken about the European Alliance, which has a different value and different connections, and this all coincides very much with the interests and agenda of the Kremlin. I want to know about it. Currently, some defence ministers have been elected to the Riigikogu, who were in office when NATO had no defence plan for Estonia at all. However, there was always work to be done in NATO, and no one questioned NATO or talked about plan B. You talk about it. Please talk about your plan B, the European Alliance, how and with which countries you are developing alternatives and why this current NATO problem is somehow new, compared to, for example, 10 or 15 years ago. Please talk about it! My question was about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U121	Someone here was just complaining that I was allowed to talk too much. We should talk about this for quite a while. The question is very simple: from a strategic point of view, the Baltics are the most painful part of NATO. That, I think, and I hope, you understand. The Baltic operating room is very small. Russia can fill our airspace with its planes in minutes without having enough operational space on any NATO or Allied aircraft. It is also a problem that our operating room is small. We can be blocked very easily by the sea. What do we think of all this, Jürgen Ligi? We conclude that we need to create such a strong ground-based deterrent here, along with our closest neighbours, so that these shortcomings can be compensated for at least for some time. Russia may not send any soldiers across the Estonian border, not one tank. He has a more precise number on the other side of Lake Peipus and the Narva River to the Black Sea and the White Sea (in Leo Kunnas you can say the exact number), I think hundreds of rocket complexes that are aimed at Estonia and which he can use without having to break our territorial integrity at all. That, too, is a big problem. And we don't have anti-missiles. Jne, et cetera, et cetera. More than a dozen years ago, Brzezinski wrote about it at least 20 years ago, Kissinger wrote about it at least 15 years ago, George Friedman wrote about it at least ten years ago, that it was necessary to create NATO within NATO, without disbanding NATO and without compromising NATO's defence capabilities from the so-called mini-NATO countries whose existential existence depends on their defence capabilities and their bilateral relations with the United States. Today it is known as the Three Sea Initiatives. It is political at first, but it will inevitably grow beyond military cooperation. It will not disband NATO, it will not undermine NATO's position as guardian of the overall security and value-space of the Western hemisphere, but it will create a primary front for those countries whose existence existentially depends on their defence capabilities and their relations with the United States. That's plan B. If it doesn't fit in your head, it's a shame. I can fit, my head's bigger.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U122	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U123	Thank you. I see that you get more nervous with every answer, and the thought of your nervous person in the Government Security Committee in the event of possible crises makes me worried, to put it mildly. But also such statements that Russia can fill our airspace in minutes without having the capacity to respond to it show one of the two: either your ignorance of the facts, your ignorance of the facts, or that you want to talk like this. I don't know what the worst option is, to be honest. When I look at the actions of your party and the government currently in office, I see no step, not even a rooster step, which would, for example, have improved the anti-aircraft situation or provided additional funding for further anti-aircraft activities. I don't see any initiative that wouldn't be either going backwards or slowing down. You spoke of a military border guard, until recently you spoke of an internal defense reserve in the paper. We know very precisely that, in fact, the amount set aside for all of this is zero, more importantly, there is a minus behind it, because the completion of the eastern border has been postponed during the current government. It is undoubtedly in Estonia's interest to have a strong NATO, not that NATO is weak and that everyone should deal with plan B themselves. Today, at the time of the NATO summit, it is particularly appropriate to draw attention to this. I'd still like to know what your agenda is. Why are you saying the kind of thing that we need an alternative to NATO, we need a plan B? What do you want with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U124	First of all, the nervous act. I'm not nervous, but I'm passionate, and this passion, by the way, has kicked out very well in a young generation when I was a very good fighter and beat up a lot of people. So don't hesitate at all in my nervous system, and doubt it, it's strong, it's very strong. You're lying like you used to, you're lying that this government hasn't moved a damn thing. This government has set aside 35 or 36 million to buy a new radar system. This government is now covering the same eastern direction with radar. You couldn't move a thing. After all, you confessed to state secret that the clock's radar isn't working. You know. Why else would you accuse Martin when Martin said he had heard, but you said he confessed to state secrets that it wasn't working, so you know it isn't working, and you confessed to state secrets yourself. Here's the logic. We're done! As far as the internal defence reserve is concerned, a procurement and financing plan has already been developed. In the process of making a country's budget strategy, we will find money in it, and this is already done by the end of this year. It's all right on schedule. However, we have been in the government not for 15 years, like you, who were standing still all the time, but for only seven months. As far as the construction of the border is concerned, next week the procurement will open and in the spring or summer the knock will be knocked down and the border construction will begin. The money is there, the money is allocated, the design and the procurement all run beautifully. So once again, it is absolutely not true what you say about nothing being done. It will be done and everything will be done, unlike what your government did. He's the only one who did the grumpy, had the suitcase carried to Russia. So choose your words and don't lie!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U125	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U126	Let's go to question 11... Yeah, in Taavi Cloth, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U127	That's right. But first, I consider it my duty to say to the verbatim that I have no information on whether or not a particular radar is working, and therefore I have no opportunity to speak state secrets. But I'm sure you have the information, because...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U128	A procedural question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U129	...you are a member of the government. I'm definitely asking you to fix it in the stenogram. But my procedural question is that if a member of the government starts his response to a member of the Riigikogu in such a way that he has beaten up many people, how should it be interpreted?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U130	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. Jürgen Ligi, do you have a procedural question? I hope it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U131	Yes, I have a procedural question about the functioning of the Riigikogu. Please tell me, does the President of the Riigikogu represent a party or a Riigikogu? We've been called on here many times, and you've been on the side of your party every time. You've named my name today as if I was being rude.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U133	Who do you represent here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U134	Thank you. This is not a procedural question. But I really represent the Riigikogu, and if you break the order and interfere with the answer to the question, it is perfectly natural that a remark will be made. But I think we can come to the last question, question 11. The questioner is Urmas Kruuse and answers Minister Mart Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! As we have said in our previous dialogues, in order for citizens to be able to appreciate actions, they must also look fair and transparent. That is why I believe that many of your ministers today have problems and there is no need to blame the deep state or the Reform Party here. Today's Minister of Finance spoke about how he was confident and convinced that the working man who worked at his home would not pay taxes and was proud that he would not pay. This was particularly grotesque because we then talked about pension reform and our incomes as pensioners certainly depend very much on taxes. Speaking of pattern, this minister also participated in a bankruptcy process in 2008, when, as a private individual, he brought various checks to the company, the purchase of intimate washing from cheques to telephone bills that did not accompany this business. I would like to ask you how you, as Prime Minister's minister today, feel about the fact that the Minister of Finance is actually tolerating the envelope salary. Do you agree or do you not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U136	I basically answered that question, but if you want, I can read the exact same text again. I've read Lasse Lehise's explanation or expertise, if you'd like. But I'm not the kind of person who really loves routine, and here's a summary at the end. There's no tolerance, there's no envelope pay, there's nothing like that, it's perfectly legitimate. I'm not generally competent to comment on all of this because I don't even know if this person worked for him or how long he worked, maybe he worked for an hour. I don't have any information, I can't comment on that. But I knew you were gonna start picking on it. Lasse Lehis has also written this: 'For summary. If one natural person provides a service to another natural person and this activity is of a permanent nature (Permanent nature! M. H.) and the purpose of earning income, the person must either register as a self-employed person or open an entrepreneur's account in a bank, giving the possibility to pay all the taxes prescribed by law. In the case of individual transactions (I stress: individual transactions. M.H.), it would be reasonable to accept that there is always a thin 'grey' zone between 'white' and 'black' worlds, where there is no theoretical justification or practical need to collect taxes. ' This is Lasse Lehise's summary of the very subject you are hoping to use here to mine the government. The mine doesn't explode, the detonator's damaged.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U137	Thank you. Looks like there's one more question we can take. Urmas Kruuse, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U138	Thank you. I'm trying not to play with the triggers because it seems dangerous. I'd rather refer to the Minister himself. As he has told the public, he has made a contract of command. In my opinion, at least in the report you have read, Lasse Lehtis has failed to indicate some tax obligations that concern the employer's hiring someone. But the real Prime Minister, although we do not understand very well who the real Prime Minister is, but let's say that Jüri Ratas has said in another case about Martin Repinski that if it turns out that this is an envelope payment, it is definitely a red line for him. By that red line, he meant that such a person could not continue as a minister. I have no panicked desire to deal with the search for possible triggers and mines to the EKRE ministers, but I have to say, as a result of their behaviour, why we are asking these questions. Would it also be a red line for you if it became clear that the honourable Minister of Finance in this particular episode of which he spoke to us in public here in the Riigikogu was wrong, and should he, as a minister, take responsibility and resign from the job, the so-called office?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U139	Once again, I am not competent to answer this question. I've been helping Martin. I know that the house he was talking about, he's basically built it with his own hands. I've been helping him with the rafters. I don't know, maybe Martin should have paid me a salary and paid me taxes and something else. Maybe it's a very big crime that he didn't do it. Maybe it was a crime that I didn't ask him to. I don't know. I'd say it's this kind of grunting, and this burrowing isn't going to get anywhere, because there's no breaking the law here. Does anyone have any moral obligation because of this example that I realize that it is actually just an example of resigning? Come on, let's not get so crazy in this hall. I'm absolutely convinced that most of the people in this hall have occasionally used someone's little work-related favor, someone may have been somewhere to fix a socket, help change a tire or something like that. This is the thin grey zone. All of you have done this! All of you will be criminals, and you should leave this hall with shame, because you have deceived the taxpayer, but you yourself are on the taxpayer's payroll. I understand the logic of the opposition, but this thing doesn't have any substance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U140	Thank you. I look at the clock and I see that unfortunately, the question time is running out. We need five minutes plus two minutes for the question and the answer to make the sally so that everyone gets here at 2:00 a.m. Thanks to the questioners! Thanks to the respondents! Today's Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U141	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 10th working week session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. To begin with, members of the Riigikogu are able to deliver drafts and questions. There is no wish to hand over the pre-requisites and enquiries, so we can go to the presence check. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U142	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote of 50, and we will go to it. The adoption of this draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law on the amendment of the Penal Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic (the directive on the protection of the European Union's financial interests and the directive on the procedural rights of minors) 50. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U143	The second item is the third reading of the Bill 59 on Amendment to the Defence Forces Service Act and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is to hold a final vote on the 59th draft, which also requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, can we vote in shorter notice? We will have nine final votes one after the other. Do you agree? [[They say yes in the hall.]] Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 59. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U144	Today's third item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 76. We are going to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 76. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U145	Today's fourth item: Third reading of the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The commission's proposal is also a final vote on the 55th draft, and we will go to it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the general part of the environmental code initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 55. Please take a stand and vote. 84 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U146	Today's fifth item: Third reading of Bill 81 on Amending the State Budget Act 2019 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U147	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2019 to send 81 to third readings on 21 November and 2 December. At the meeting of the Commission on 2 December, Minister for Social Affairs Tanel Kiik explained the reasons for the changes in his area of government. The deadline for submitting amendments was including 19 November at 5.15 p.m. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. The Committee on Finance, in cooperation with the ministries, drafted an amendment specifying the costs of a number of amendments. The amendments are presented in the order of the areas of ministry. The Commission also added a proposal to give effect to the Act on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. Explanations of the amendments are given in the list of amendments to the proposals. Changes shall include cost reductions with a positive sign and increases with a negative sign. Linguistic and technical improvements have been made to the draft. From discussions so much that I proposed to review the State Budget Act at the beginning of next year, the approval of the annual report, the topics of the Government's reserve, etc., in order to plan changes to the law if necessary. At the same time, I thought it was important that the budgets presented by all the ministries should be written in the same way and unambiguously understood, so that it would be easier for members of the Riigikogu to deepen, ask questions and propose amendments. Member of the Commission Aivar Sõerd asked whether members of the Riigikogu had access to the budget information system in order to obtain a more detailed overview of the allocation of funds. The answer was given by Regina Vällik, the Ministry of Finance, responding to the fact that the budget information system ex post sees what expenditure has been incurred. This system is at a rather general level, with the activity-based budget being the programme and the theme 'costs and investments'. A greater degree of detail in planning is currently not possible. Aivar Sõerd asked to specify the degree of detail involved, and Regina Välik replied that there were labour costs, management costs, investments and other subsidies. Regina Vällik also noted that a new development of the information system is currently being developed, a so-called management desk, where information is also displayed to members of the Riigikogu. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the third reading of the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 4 November and to hold a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U148	Thank you. You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I recall that when we were doing this second reading here, they asked not me, but some colleagues asked you, as the head of finance, whether it was known what the so-called balance figures, deficit or surplus of the 2019 budget would be. I also understand my colleagues why they asked that question. As far as the 2018 budget is concerned, the year was already over and then in spring of this year, in March-April, it was discovered that there was a huge deficit. That was probably why our colleagues' questions were motivated. Is there now some more precise information on what the 2019 budget deficit is likely to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U150	Thank you. The easiest thing to do, Aivar, is to answer why you didn't ask for it in the committee. This issue was not raised in the Commission. When we see suggestions for improvement, it shows that the budget will also be as it has been adopted a year ago at the end of the year. There is no comment here that some lines would go into a very negative or that there would be a lot more money coming from somewhere. We know that, for example, the collection of alcohol duty is much better than was predicted in spring.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U151	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U152	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I'm glad you're happy when people drink more and get alcohol duty. But the question is that, when you started making your presentation, you spoke about the progress of the Minister of Social Affairs in the Commission. He was also asked questions about the distribution of social funds. Maybe you'll open up a little bit of what the Minister of Social Affairs explained then.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U153	Yes, we had a number of questions from the Ministry of Social Affairs. It was a maintenance issue that you've proposed in some other laws. It was said why such changes have taken place and why, over the course of the year, it has not been possible to provide these services at a level that would enable anyone who needs to use this money to be able to do so. The minister was critical of himself and of the ministry, but he also explained that since he had only been a minister for the first six months, he has not been able to reach solutions on all topics. On the issues that we asked the Commission about and why we called it in separately, it made a promise that the problems would be solved next year. They are already under discussion in the Ministry today. If you follow all of this, it seems that you have the ability to use all the money for maintenance. Unfortunately, for several reasons, one of them is that not all nursing homes and service providers have yet been able to reorganize their own premises, but they are not able to offer different services for all kinds of needs. Construction work is expected and expected to be completed by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U154	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I continued to ask the same question. This is the area of care services where money is taken away and channelled into the development of the SKIAIS2. If I remember correctly, it was already 3 million and then later an amendment was introduced that added 1.8 million more, so, as I understand it, nearly 5 million will go into the development of SKIAIS2. But if we look at the calendar now, we'll see that it's December 4th, i.e. it's only a few days until the end of the year. How is it possible that this nearly EUR 5 million of IT development money will be spent this year? Doesn't this money actually go to next year's budget for the development of the SKIAIS2?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U156	Thank you for a good question, Aivar. Unfortunately, we did not come to this clarification at the Commission debate, where you yourself were. We know SKIAIS2 as one of the sad IT development programmes of the Estonian state, with which many members of the Riigikogu have themselves been directly involved as a minister or as a member of the Social Affairs Committee. It is now clear that if we fail to operate the SKIAIS2 programme over the next year, it may happen that the entire social sector, which has been transferred to IT development from the SKIAIS1, is simply going to cease its activities. If there's any money planned, I believe that since the developer of the SKAIS2 program has shown that he can complete his programming parts in time, it's going to the right place. Let's hope so. And either this money is spent this year or it's going to be some part of the next year, I can't tell you that, but it can't turn into any other use if it's meant for the development of the SkyS2.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U157	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U158	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good chairman of the committee! Today we are working on this state budget specification, knowing that next year's state budget will not see how it has been drawn up, how detailed it is. We all know that it is so ill-readable. This problem is likely to be even greater in the coming years if the budget is to be clarified at the end of the year. There are certainly the necessary things to be done this year when some action has not been taken. But I'm more than convinced that a lot of things are done in ministries just seeing that there's money left over. Then they do something that may or may not be necessary. Have you discussed, or at least yourself, that maybe you should put all this money into the reserve fund and solve these issues from next year's budget, such as the development of the same skyIS2, but not now hop up the extra money, scraping it from here and there?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U159	Thank you for a good question, Kalvi. That's exactly the same message I've given to the Treasury Department. And when you listened to what I said in the committee in this same debate, we certainly want to get a very clear message in the first months of next year about how the state budget has been built up, what are the lines, what is the same so-called table that will then be available to the members of the Riigikogu. I have given this message that next year, we wanted to do this honestly as early as this year, so if some of the millions of ministries are being exchanged or transferred, and there is a line that will be done next year anyway, it may be more sensible to increase it to the national reserve and decide whether to do something else from reserve resources or to use it next year as solutions to certain state budget issues. So, Kalvi, we have understood this subject in the same way as you. Let's hope next year we can make some lines a little more reasonable. But we also need to make it clear to ourselves today that next year the budget will be different for the first time since it has been so far, and in the first few years there will still be those mistakes that need to be corrected. That's what we're here for, trying to make the state budget for next year more readable.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U160	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U161	Thank you, good manager. Mr. Chef! In answer to the previous question, you said that the development of the SKIAIS2 is vital to sustain the financing of social services. Agreed. I really hope that because of the resources that we are redeploying at the expense of retirement age, disabled people and special care groups, these people will not suffer and receive their services, and the budget for next year will also take this into account. Although, it is true, we do not exactly see in the budget for next year whether it takes this sufficiently into account. But my question is, now it's going to be 5 million rounds in addition to SKIAIS2. Was this the subject in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and do you have to know that this is now enough money to really get the SKIAIS2 ready, or are we at some point again in this situation where we need to redefine and plan to add more to the SKIAIS2? Is that enough money now?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U162	Thank you. I don't want to be the person who says "SKAIS2" that is enough or isn't enough, because everyone who still has my life experience here in this room for eight years and a little bit after that, nine years goes by, and everyone who has promised here in SKAIS2, is lost. On several occasions the developer has been sent home and a new developer has come. But in the state budget, even for the next year, there will be money for the development of the SKIAIS2. In total, these amounts should be sufficient for the SKIAIS2 to function by the end of next year, and we can discuss other concerns in this Chamber, whether it is an average pension tax exemption or everything else. We asked you that, we were very critical of the redeployment of the Ministry of Social Affairs. This is why the only minister invited by the Committee on Monetary Affairs to discuss this redeployment of the 2019 budget was the Minister of Social Affairs. We have received answers there, and I believe that the Minister will do everything in his power to ensure that the SKIAIS2 programme works by the end of next year and that the main needs for social IT solutions can be met. SKIAIS2 will certainly not be finished for good next year. It is a long process, and every year, depending on legislative changes, improvements must also be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U163	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, it is customary to change the budget for the current year at the end of the year. There's nothing extraordinary about this. It's been there before. It is natural that ministries will not spend their resources, which are planned, in full, and then they will be raised within the ministry or areas within the circle. It's natural, and we don't argue with that. In this year's budget, there are, to a large extent, technical changes in basic terms, redeployments that are certainly necessary. But here is one topic that was actually raised at the time of the first reading, when the Minister of Finance was on this board. I've been going over that verbogram, just in case. It was said that about EUR 5 million will be raised from the welfare services of the Ministry of Social Affairs mainly to the development of SKAIS2 and other IT expenditures of the Social Insurance Board. The question then arose as to how the situation could be that, although, let's say, the special care service, the social rehabilitation service is actually a catastrophic lack of money, the money is suddenly left over. Then the Minister of Finance was also asked, which has led to the situation that there is money left over. However, this explanation remained very vague, said about the fact that there are not enough applicants or service providers at one place of supply and there is a surplus. But there is a question about this, and we also asked that if it is not possible to spend the service in one area, it can be increased to another place or another area in Estonia, where there is a chronic lack of money in providing this same rehabilitation service and special care service. I didn't get an answer to that. In November, when there was a second reading, there was again a colleague of Aivar Kokk here on the remote, and the same question was put to him. He also said that yes, I agree, the issue of welfare is acute, this issue of funding is acute, and the Commission will consult the Ministry of Social Affairs on this issue. We also had a long discussion with the Minister for Social Affairs and his staff in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but we were not able to clarify this issue. Here, I'd say those numbers over. For example, first of all, this initial draft contained EUR 3 million. This distribution: 1.5 million left over from the day- and week-care service; 0.5 or half million euros left over from the rehabilitation budget; 1 million euros left over from the 24/7 service of the special care service, a total of 3 million euros. Later, 1.8 million more were brought to the table of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, once again from the same area of care services. All this EUR 5 million was then raised to the development of SKIAIS2 and other IT programmes at the Social Insurance Board. But really, that's where the money burns. At least sooner, you can say, the money has burned in the development of the SKIAS2. Not in the second pillar, the pension pillar does not burn money, but in this development of the SKIAIS2 the money has burned to the Riigikogu. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U165	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U166	Thank you! We couldn't find out. In a sector where there is a catastrophic lack of money, rather than redeploying money there and directing it to where it could be spent, the money was mainly raised to the development of the SKIAIS2. If we look at the calendar, today we're already in December. It is not that 5 million IT money will still be spent this year; rather, it is simply the budget expenditure for next year's budget to be entered into this year's budget. Look, that was a problem. And then I remember my fellow Members here at second reading asking what the budget will be like this year. Well, obviously we're talking about a deficit, I don't know, maybe there is a surplus, that was asked by the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and today we asked again, but we didn't get an exact answer to that either. Why are we asking that? Let us remember, for the whole of 2018, we were told that the budget is in a large nominal surplus and structural balance. Then the elections came, and during the elections it was also said that we had a surplus budget. But then suddenly, in April, it was announced that we had a huge deficit. That was why the question of how this year's budget is, but we did not get an answer to that either. In conclusion, however, I would like to conclude by not voting against this draft by the Reform Party Group. Basically, there are the necessary things, technical redeployments, etc. However, I do not think that many of our Members can vote in favour of this draft for the reasons described above, so either they abstain or they do not vote at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U167	Thank you. Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U168	Good President! Honourable fellows! This hall is spoken to the Estonian people. This was also confirmed in the process of processing this budget, the 2019 state budget, because the questions raised at first and second reading, in particular, Mr Sõerdi, as well as the very many questions raised by Mr Sõerdi, which specifically concerned the change and change of social funds, brought a large number of letters. I do not believe that I am the only member of the Riigikogu whose letters of concern for children with disabilities and young people's parents came into the mailbox, as well as letters from some representative organisations of local governments, as well as people with disabilities. Allow me to read you a letter like this. Since it also goes into the verbatim and, as the good chairman of the committee said, the Minister for Social Affairs was very critical and hopes that there will be no such changes next year, perhaps this will also help him. Now a quote from this letter. 'The Riigikogu has come to the proceedings of the 2019 draft law amending the Riigikogu budget. Parents are convinced that no one has asked for the opinion of those responsible for the care of disabled people on this draft. It states: 3 million euros from the Welfare Programme will be allocated to the Health and Welfare Information Systems Centre (TEHIC) to develop investments (SKAIS2, STAR). The funds can be reduced by EUR 1.5 million from the special care day and week care service, as the provision of the service has not taken place in the desired volume (the number of service users has been less than planned; the areas in which the service is provided are not in line with demand). The budget for the social rehabilitation service will be reduced by 0.5 million euros as the number of recipients (pensionable age) of the service is lower than expected. The budget for the special care service will be reduced by EUR 1 million in connection with the estimated under-performance of the service budget (the time for the introduction of new service places is delayed; the number of 24-hour special care facilities has decreased due to the reorganisation of the European Regional Fund's service sites; the ability of service providers to provide services to autists with difficult behaviour is lower than expected). EUR 10300 will be allocated to the technical management costs to ensure accommodation and management of the ESSI case management system developed by the European Commission. The remaining reductions relate to the clarification of the ABB methodology (the organisation of the services of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Insurance Board and the creation of support services) and the change in the rent costs of the Social Insurance Board. There's gotta be some way to stop this shit. The city of Tartu contributed more to the construction of new family houses than the European Union. The houses are set up for 50 people. If the service's money is reduced in this colossal way, then we cannot take adults into this service. " All of this raises the question of whether services are really not used or provided, and if so, why does no one analyze it in the ministry. Why doesn't the money go where the need for the service is greater? Why aren't people being directed to where the service providers are? Are we protected from the fact that, at the end of 2020, there will be no re-exportation of this kind of service money again? I don't have anything else to say. The Social Democrats will certainly not vote against this bill, but some of our Members will not vote in favour either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U169	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation by the political groups. Two amendments to the draft have also been tabled; we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission is: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft 81 and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the National Budget Act 2019 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 57 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there was no one against, 1 abstention. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U170	Today's sixth item is the second reading of the draft Act 75 on the ratification of amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention Code of the International Labour Organisation, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 2014 and 2016. I'd like to ask Heljo Pikhof, member of the Legal Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the draft law on ratification of amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention Code of the International Labour Organisation, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at its meeting on 18 November. No amendments to the draft had been tabled and the procedure was immediately followed. The decisions were as follows: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 4 December, to propose that the second reading be closed, and to propose a final vote on the draft. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U172	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 75 on the draft. We are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act on ratification of amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention Code of the International Labour Organisation, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 2014 and 2016. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U173	Today's seventh item is the second reading of the draft Act 88 on the ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the application of measures relating to tax treaties to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Dmitri Dmitriyev, member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U174	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at second reading, including on 18 November. I would remind you that the implementation of the Convention will reduce the possibilities for Estonian residents to avoid taxing earned income as well as for non-residents to use Estonia for tax evasion. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 20 November Riigikogu members, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft. The Finance Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, drafted one amendment to correct a technical error, which was linked to the choice of reservation in Italy. The Commission also decided in the second reading of the draft explanatory memorandum to provide information on the correction of an error in the English text of the notifications and reservations, which amends the three order numbers in the table attached to Article 5. This is set out for you in the explanation of the amendment. The Commission also made the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 4 December or today, to conclude the second reading and to conclude the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U175	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There are no negotiating requests. An amendment to the draft has also been tabled. It has been presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The commission's proposal is for a final vote of 88 on the draft, and we are going to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 88 on ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the application of measures relating to tax treaties in order to prevent tax base erosion and profit shifting initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U176	Let's keep going. Today's eighth item: Second reading of the draft Act 93 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion and fraud and related protocol. I would like to ask Tiit Kala, member of the Monetary Affairs Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am reporting a second reading of the draft Act 93 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and tax fraud and related protocol. The Committee on Finance discussed the preparation of the draft for the second reading, including on 18 November. No amendments were received by the deadline of 20 November 1715. The purpose of double taxation agreements is to encourage investment between the parties to the agreement. The agreement will provide investors with greater legal certainty in relation to the elements of the tax system covered by the agreement, as a bilateral amendment of an international agreement usually requires more time than a change of national legislation. In order to achieve this objective, the Treaty limits the income tax that a source country may levy on the income of residents of another country, ensures equal treatment of persons and eliminates possible double taxation. The obligation to exchange mutual information set out in the Agreement creates additional opportunities to prevent tax fraud. The following consensual decisions were taken by the Commission: to put the draft on the agenda by Wednesday, 4 December 2019, to close the second reading and to conclude the final vote. A majority of the votes cast is required for the adoption of the draft act. Waitress Tiit Kala.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U178	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are also questions for you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U179	No. I'm sorry! No, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U180	No, it wasn't. Thank you. No more questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the 93th draft, and we will go to it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 93 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Government of the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of China and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion and tax fraud and related protocol. Please take a stand and vote. 74 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U181	Today's ninth item on the agenda is the second reading of the Riigikogu's resolution 'Accepting the State's Summary Report for the financial year 2018' by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U182	Good manager! Good waitress! The Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the draft 'approval of the State's summary report for the financial year 2018' at its meeting on 21 November. No amendments were received, and the Riigikogu State Budget Control Committee also gave no opinion on the consolidated annual report to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The draft provides for the approval of the State's audited consolidated annual report for the financial year 2018, consisting of the annual report, the accounts report, information on local government units and the public and government sector. The report also includes the audit report of the National Audit Office. The first reading took place on 13 November, when the National Audit Office published a report on the summary report and on the use and preservation of state assets. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, the annual report fairly reflects the state's financial position in all material respects and the economic result and cash flows of the reporting period that ended. The State's economic transactions have been carried out in a substantial part in accordance with the State Budget Act of 2018 and the Amending Act of 2018. This means that the National Audit Office did not find any material errors in the implementation of the state budget laws. During the Commission's discussion, it was also proposed that it would be useful for the efficiency of the budgetary procedure if the draft decision were submitted earlier to the Riigikogu. The content and presentation of the summary report also require a better solution. The Finance Committee proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including on 4 December. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading and put the draft to a final vote. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U183	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled. The commission of directors' proposal is to put the draft to the final vote and we will go to it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic to approve the State's consolidated report for the financial year 2018 77. Please take a stand and vote. 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U184	Let's move on to today's agenda. The tenth item is the presentation on 'Following the fundamentals of sport policy up to 2030'. Ladies and gentlemen, before we go to the discussion of this item, I will briefly present its proceedings. First, the presentation by the Minister of Culture is up to 30 minutes. Then there are questions, each member of the Riigikogu can ask the rapporteur a single oral question, followed by negotiations, where representatives of the political groups can participate. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. And now I am pleased to ask the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas for a presentation. Agenda item: Report on 'Following the fundamentals of sport policy until 2030'.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Sport is a theme that interests almost everyone, sometimes even all people. Thank you very much for inviting me today to the Sports Day of the Riigikogu, which begins with this presentation and continues after the processing of the Sport Act. Sport is under observation today, under such a pretty thorough look. A brief introduction. There are sporting events that elevate and unite our people like nothing else. The dramaturg Eero Epner, who has recently worked through thousands of anonymous comments for the concert performance Anonymous longing, stated in the Estonian National Broadcasting that comments in a more cheerful tone mostly came to his attention when sport came to the counter. If people want to say intoxicated that their life suddenly has a meaning, or if the entire Estonian state suddenly has an idea, then this thought will only come when Ott Tänak wins the speed test. Of course, this statement also tells us a lot about people's perception of society, attitudes in general, but let us stick to sport. I dare say quite openly, without anonymity, that there is, of course, something in society that makes the mood bad, but also a lot of good, which may not be such a popular topic in commentaries. Still, these words by Eero Epner say that one theme, sport, connects us. Honourable Riigikogu! The Sport Strategy Paper "The Fundamentals of Estonian Sport Policy until 2030" was adopted in the Riigikogu on 18 February 2015. This set out the vision, national objectives and priority trends of Estonian sports policy. According to this document, sport and movement in all the activities of demographic and social target groups are a healthful, educational, entertaining and social component that diversifys cultural and youth work and contributes to integration, employment and economic activity throughout the spectrum. So it's a very broad subject. And Sport 2030 is here the basis for planning all the necessary activities. The Ministry of Culture, as the Ministry responsible for sport, as well as other ministries, are planning to implement these activities in Sport 2030 through strategic documents and the state budget strategy. While an important part of the principles agreed in the document requires consistency and longer-term planned activities, I will mention in this review what the state can do and what the state and sport organisations did during the period from 1 September 2018 to 31 August 2019. This period will remain the period of the previous government. I therefore thank the Prime Minister of the previous government, Jüri Ratas, and the Minister of Culture of the previous government, Indrek Saart, for the good and thorough work that has been done. They're both sportsmen. Sport 2030 formulates as a nationwide objective the importance of movement and sport and the growing role of promoting the vitality of Estonians, creating wealth in the living environment and shaping the Estonian state's good reputation. In pursuing this goal, there are four priority trends: firstly, the majority of the population is moving and sports; secondly, movement and sport are an important industry and employer with a strong organisation; thirdly, movement and sport are the bearer of spirituality, coherence and positive values; fourthly, Estonia is represented effectively and with dignity at international level. In view of these developments, the mental and physical balance and well-being of Estonians could be at Nordic level by 2030. This means involving at least 2/3 of the population instead of the current 1/3. Our living environment should be conducive to physical activity and be equipped with accompanying services that support the extension, self-realisation and economic growth of people's healthy lives. So how has this, in the order of the fourth reporting period, been moving towards this target? I bring out six of the most important initiatives. These are activities within the 'School inviting to move' programme, valuing the coaching and coaching profession, questions about the honesty of sport, support measure created in Estonia for organising international sporting events, plans to amend the sports law and development of top sports through the Estonian team project, which is known as Team Estonia. But let us start with the children, because it is primarily the actions aimed at them that determine whether or not we have met the targets set in 2030. At present, the activity of Estonian children is worryingly low. Although the number of children and young enthusiasts has steadily increased and exceeded the 50% limit for the first time in 2018, studies show that only 24% of children and young people are physically sufficiently active. There are also fewer and fewer children and young people who are used to outdoors: only 71⁄11% of children aged 10 and older spend their free time outdoors every day. We have thus reached a situation where mobility is no longer a natural part of children's everyday life. It is clear that the sport sector alone cannot solve this problem. There is a need to find effective ways of working with the social and educational sectors in particular. The issue here is certainly also a good public space, which is one of the key factors for increasing the physical activity of people of all ages in order to be more attractive and more conducive to mobility. One solution that is already under way is to pay attention to the development of a school culture that supports mobility. Here I can mark again the 'School inviting to move' program. This is a good example of cooperation because the project is being carried together by the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research, and it makes an important contribution to achieving the Sport 2030 objectives. The 'Invitation School' is a program initiated by the University of Tartu movement lab and has already joined 78 schools all over Estonia. The aim of the programme is to provide students with mobility opportunities throughout the school day: on their way to school, before classes start, during hours and breaks, and even after the school day. Motion lab studies have shown that outdoor recess is one of the best ways to add mobility to the days of students who are inactive outside school. Do you remember the schools where the door was closed for the break so the kids wouldn't get out of the yard, because it's hard to get them back into the hours. Or some other reason was found. The 'Invitation School' aims to move all Estonian students, regardless of their parents' opportunities and interest or the availability of organised sport. It is therefore important to support the extension of the "Invitation School" project to all Estonian schools. This will help to increase the physical activity of young people. The mobility activity of children is also supported by the creation of mobility infrastructure where children are already present. A good solution is the development of indoor areas in schools and the creation of outdoor areas that are inviting to move. In addition to the supportive environment, mobility education, which entered into force in September 2019 in the school programme, will provide all students with basic skills and knowledge on how to move and exercise in a way that is acceptable in future life. But both children's and young people's sports and top sports need qualified guidance. We need coaches. It is up to the first coach to remain true to the movement that he is attracted to in some area. It also involves learning about teamwork and discipline, how to plan time, how to win and lose, and respect for fair play. The coach plays an undoubtedly greatest role in this process. In order to value this work, the state has set itself the goal of bringing the salaries of coaches to the Estonian average wage level. It is possible to apply for a coach's profession at a university, having acquired physical education and training in sports, and having received general subjects and level training in specialized subjects, as well as practical work. Good cooperation between Tallinn University, the University of Tartu and the Audentes Sports Gymnasium is provided for coaching. Thousands of new coaches can build on the knowledge gained there. And they're needed. As the number of amateur athletes continues to increase, at least 2400 new coaches are expected to be needed by 2030. Ensuring that coaches are rewarded is still the most difficult objective to achieve. In 2015, the implementation of a support measure aimed at helping the employer to pay the remuneration paid to children and young coaches under a contract of employment. The impact of the measure on the organisation of coaches' remuneration, the tax discipline of clubs and the improvement of administrative capacity is felt. From 2018, a fixed number of training hours will be supported by 1.1 million to ensure that coaches' pay and support increase. The requirement for employers to increase the wage fund per coach by the same percentage as the increase in public support was also raised. The amendment made it possible to increase the gross remuneration of coaches to EUR 850 in 2018 and the cost of the coach's workforce to EUR 541 in 2018. In 2019 the corresponding figures were already EUR 1000 and EUR 642. Overall, the Coach Labour Cost Support measure has justified itself as more and more coaches have received support under this measure. There were 1029 in 2015 and 1232 in 2018. In addition, the volume of support has increased in five years from EUR 3.5 million to EUR 7.1 million. However, raising the salaries of coaches to the average level of Estonian government budget in 2019 is not enough to meet the target set; in the coming years this amount will need to be increased vigorously. The contribution to coaches plays a broader societal role. As the trainer's salary increases, it is possible to find those people with professional skills and a valuable commitment to their activities who are able to cultivate the love of sport in young people. This, in turn, will help to increase the number of people engaged in sport and to realise the interests of the state in promoting sport. Dear Riigikogu! Very seriously, honesty in sport, honesty in sport has recently become a topic. Fair game is the most important concepts in sport. For us, of course, one of the most painful experiences and a lesson in the 'Administration' police operation carried out at the Seefeld World Championship, the consequences of which are still reflected in the tabloid columns. The Estonian flag was high again, but unfortunately above the abyss. So that he does not fall into this abyss, we must all act with care. At the invitation of the Minister of Culture in the beginning of 2019 a broad-based working group met, who considered it necessary, as a countermeasure, to supplement § 195 of the Estonian Penal Code in order to punish the aiders of the use of doping more severely and thereby to better fight against the emergence of doping networks and their formation. These conclusions, which were then and also more widely, have reached the draft law on sport, which we are dealing with today in this Chamber. Secondly, the Estonian Olympic Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, started a reform in the Estonian Antidoping Foundation in autumn 2018, to transform it into an institution that would address the problems that threaten the integrity of all sports. The reform is based on the example of both Finland and Denmark. In Finland and Denmark, the fight against doping and settlement games is a task for one institution. In September of this year, EOK founded the new Estonian Antidoping and Sports Ethics Foundation, which will deal with all areas of honesty in sport. Accession to the Estonian Antidoping Foundation will be completed in 2019. The name will be the Estonian Antidoping and Sports Ethics Foundation. The foundation's statutory objective is to promote non-discrimination, ethical and fair sport in Estonia, including to help prevent the use of doping and manipulation of sports competitions, as well as the prevention of discrimination, abuse, harassment, etc. in sport, to contribute to ensuring the safety of participants in sporting competitions and to solving other problems threatening the integrity of sport in sport. In order to support the reform, the Ministry of Culture increased the operating grant granted to the Estonian Antidoping Foundation from EUR 65000 to EUR 187000, plus 1.6% of the gambling tax at the disposal of the Ministry of Culture, as amended by the Gambling Act adopted in 2018. According to the Council of Europe Convention on combating the manipulation of sporting competitions, Estonia must designate a contact point to combat the manipulation of sporting competitions and develop both the respective research capacity and education and training activities. Therefore, in the process of amending the Sport Act, a new provision is included in the draft, which would also allow the tasks of the contact point against the manipulation of sports competitions to be given to the Estonian Anti-Doping and Sports Ethics Foundation on the basis of an administrative contract. On 15 August, the Government of the Republic also approved the Council of Europe Convention on an integrated approach to security, security and service in football matches and other sporting events in the field of sport integrity. The new Convention aims to honour a common partnership approach between the various authorities and stakeholders. The safety pillar should ensure, above all, the security of infrastructure and stadiums, the safety pillar helps to prevent hooliganism, and the service task is to ensure seamless access for all players in sports events: clear and visible labels, access to toilets and polite treatment throughout the event. This is also a cultural issue. Now for international sporting events. Every year hundreds of sporting events take place in Estonia, which have a wider regional significance and also have an impact on the economy of the region. The organisation of international competitions in Estonia is mainly supported by the state, but also by local governments and the private sector, as well as by sports organisations themselves. There are sporting events where the organiser also has the support of an international alliance, but vice versa: competitions organised by international sports organisations must be paid for the right of organisation. It is a fact that the organisation of international sporting events will increase the visibility of the event, encourage tourism and bring direct benefits to economic operators in the region. This is why the government already approved in 2017 the Ministry of Culture's proposal to create an additional call for applications for cultural and sporting events in Estonia with a significant economic impact, with the government setting up 2 million euros to finance this event from 2018. The amount of aid to be granted in the call for proposals is directly linked to the taxes received by the State and can be applied for from EUR 65000. And since this is a call for proposals that have a positive impact on the state budget, no maximum limit has been set for the grant granted. The call for proposals is implemented and evaluated by the Ministry of Culture Commission, which also includes representatives of the Enterprise Estonia and the Ministry of Finance. The expert evaluation is carried out by the Estonian Conjuncture Institute. The feedback so far has been positive and has increased the motivation of sports organisations to apply for the right to organise international competitions and to perform them at a high level in Estonia. As you remember, we only recently applied, but we didn't get the European Championship in basketball, but we got the volleyball ones again. So there have also been rejections, but Estonia is a place for international competitions. Thus, in the 2018 call for proposals, the European Triathlon Championship in Tartu, Rally Estonia, the full-length Ironman Triathlon in Tallinn and the European Kurling Championship were supported. The analysis of the economic impact of these four events shows that the direct tax receipts have been at least 1.3 times higher than the aid amount. In addition, external participants and guests spent a total of 8.6 million euros here. The 2019 call for proposals has supported the stage of the Tallinn Marathon, the World Wrestling Junior World Championship, Ironman, the cross-country skiing World Cup series in Otepää, the 20th edition of the 20th edition of the Junior World Illustration Championship in Tallinn. Analysis of the economic impact of the events that took place in 2019 - these events in themselves have already passed through - have not yet been completed by the time this report is drawn up. The process is ongoing and the impact of this year's events can be presented in the next year's report. In addition to direct contacts and tax revenues, international major events also have a significant impact on the image of Estonia in the international media landscape. For example, Rally Estonia, which took place in 2018, reached more than 20 million people in 90 countries, the European Championship of Kurling held in Estonia reached 10 million TV viewers through Eurosport, and the TV broadcasts of the cross-country skiing World Cup in 2019 reached 30 million people. Dear Riigikogu! Since the amendment to the sports law governing sport is in this Chamber today at first reading, I would not be talking about this at this point in time. However, I am talking about the Estonian team, or, as they say, Team Estonia. The success of the major competitions is kept by Estonia on the world map of sport, brings Estonia a reputation and, which is not of little importance, has a positive impact on people's sports and exercise habits and on public health. Unfortunately, we have returned from the last two winter Olympics without a medal, and in the last three summer Olympics we have won only five medals, which do not satisfy the athletes in particular. It is time to make structural changes in our sport. The team Estonia project is a project promoting top sports in Estonia, aimed at helping athletes to reach podium sites at these Olympic Games and other international title competitions. The experience of Denmark and Slovenia in countries comparable to the size of Estonia shows that success will result in the pooling of support for top athletes in a unified system that will guarantee all the necessary conditions for a team athlete. So the main objectives of the Estonian team programme are to create a high-level, sustainable comprehensive system of sport and support services, which includes well-organised cooperation for athletes, coaches and support providers. In the current Estonian sports funding system, there was a gap between support for youth sports and support for athletes already successful in the title competitions by the Olympic Committee. Young people had to strive for athletic success on a project basis, with the support of private sponsors and parents. This gap disappears during the implementation of the programme. Synergies between support mechanisms will hopefully create a whole that will deliver positive results soon. The launch of this programme in 2019 is already showing positive results in the first year. The five medals won by both the European Games and the European Youth Olympic Festival are directly linked to the first year funding of Team Estonia, which, in addition to supporting performance sport, increased support for youth sports peaks and also started to support coaches. However, it is already clear that the country's fiscal strategy 2019/2022. In 2006, the amounts are not very generous and may not be sufficient to promote performance sport. The Ministry of Culture is trying to ensure its own security, and that is what we could also discuss here in the Riigikogu Hall, so that the volumes planned by the EOK will also be realised in terms of funding. Then we can measure whether this whole built-up system will bear the intended fruit. If the funding is incomplete, the fruit may not be so visible. However, the closest point to the funding topics is that the budget for next year is set at EUR 3 million for the programme of the Estonian team, as requested by EOK. So at least in the Olympic year, the volume of this programme is as desired. Dear Riigikogu! In recent years, the country has made a number of important policy decisions for the development of sport. In order to ensure the health of the Estonian people and the competitiveness of Estonian sports, it is necessary to continue to support the sport sector in order to create an environment favourable to sports organisations and people involved in sport. In 2019, a programme to support regional fitness centres to improve the quality of services and mobility conditions in at least one health centre in each county was launched to promote mobility. It is important to continue the programme in the coming years. In the development of sport infrastructure, we will also move forward, for example, with the establishment of football indoor halls in counties. The amounts earmarked for this purpose in the state budget would first go to the municipalities or places designated by specialists in the framework of the pilot project, on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture. This will happen when the 2020 budget is foreseen. However, in the case of multifunctional football halls, this is only the beginning, because we still have to spend part of the money with the facilities co-financed by the state, the municipality, perhaps private companies in some places, to reach all the county centres. In addition, it is very important to pay attention to the importance of day-to-day mobility solutions in public space planning for children and adults, whether they are indoor sports sites, playgrounds, running lanes, outdoor gyms, a comprehensively planned network of bike paths or bike parks in public transport nodes and schools. Support for events aimed at expanding mobility must also be increased. As a continuation of the sports reform, the Ministry of Culture has proposed the transformation of the Estonian Cultural Endowment's body culture and sports foundation as a supporter of mobility, leaving the Olympic Committee and the sports federations to support projects focused on performance sport. Finally, each country needs success stories, heroes, role models. The best Estonian athletes in the world have played this role successfully throughout the ages. Success and strength for these new achievements and for us to create conditions for them! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U186	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Kristiina Šmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I love sports very much, and I was very happy to hear you talk about the positive impact of sport on society at the beginning of your presentation. But I actually have a very, very big problem, namely the lack of movement of children and young people. We know that the 'School Calling to Move' programme is very good and it has already started, and we also know that its funding actually comes from most of the Norwegian country. I'm pretty familiar with it. I have visited different schools and I know that the problems that exist in schools are very different. The big problems are there's no pool or gym or stadium. At the same time, there is a great deal of the sound of lack of sports equipment. As a country, what can we do to contribute perhaps more than the Norwegian state does for us?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U188	Thank you. There's gotta be some attention to that, of course. When we talk about networks, balls and all kinds of other resources, it is the task of the municipality in the case of municipal schools, the task of the state in the case of state schools. With regard to new environments, I can say that the Norwegian Fund helps to support something on a project basis in certain places, but the project provides for the development of a mobility environment and an interesting school environment where mobility can also be carried out indoors, if necessary. And it's not just in the gym or some class, it's all the way to the school. It's under observation. Out of the funds allocated for building and furnishing schools, Estonia's state and local government's money is also going to go pretty far in order to promote mobility. Frankly, I don't know exactly how much money the Ministry of Education is going to get for sports equipment right now. But I do know that the Ministry of Education has had national programmes to provide educational material, including the central provision of sports equipment, to support local government schools. The extent to which they exist now, I find it difficult to say. But it is right that it is not enough to have spacious spaces; there must also be resources. And, of course, the mentors who watch the action. At present, many schools have already been able to shift their curriculum. Nearly 40 schools have the opportunity to offer a moving lesson all week long, five days. And in these classes, you don't just moan or tap the phone. It's still very much about guiding children, coaching them. So, yes, I agree with you, there is still a lot to be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U189	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U190	Thank you, Vice President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to ask what, in your opinion, is this concern in the field of sport, which perhaps has not been monitored and resolved with sufficient attention so far. What problem are you trying to raise and reduce during your term of office?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U191	Thank you. It's actually some kind of power resistance. It is a more comfortable living environment for people, as well as a cardinal change in children's activities in recent decades. It's put a pretty tight seal on the exercise. The aim must be to create opportunities and habits for children's exercise because they carry it on to their children. That is the key question right now. Mankind has changed so dramatically from its activities and hobbies over the past few years that we may not be able to regain a movement practice with very simple means, especially if we do not have good instructors everywhere, good attitudes. Activities of interest, sports activities must be provided in infrastructure. There must be sports grounds everywhere, and those who call must have the necessary resources. And the guiding influence of society must be such that time can be found for extracurricular movements. Studies show that the exercise movement of children is not enough because they sit the rest of the time. This is clearly the basis for everything to remain in motion and to have the necessary opportunities. Apart from Slovenia and Iceland, there are other countries that have centrally started to direct this sport, and they can show better results than we do. Let's be honest, the number I mentioned earlier is the scariest number for me: only 7 to 11% of our children go outside every day to play or move in any other way. It's changed dramatically with one generation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U192	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U193	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There has been an extremely sympathetic debate on sport both in the Commission and in this large Chamber. And particularly sympathetic is that you also thanked the previous government. It doesn't happen very often on the remote that others are thanked. But in the meantime, when the hall went empty before the current item on the agenda, I had the idea that maybe they had read the article by Vice Chancellor of Sport Tarvi Pürn, which claims that sitting is a new smoking. Perhaps the members of the Riigikogu went to move themselves. Perhaps instead of parking places in this courtyard, it should be a basketball court that the members of the Riigikogu also set an example for schools. But the question is, in fact, that we also discussed in the Commission that it is the rural areas that come from our current top athletes. This is one of the few areas where rural areas have an advantage over densely populated areas. Could the legislator have any means to level this differentiation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U194	First of all, about your remark that the environment could also be made more sport-friendly in the Riigikogu or even in institutions at all. Maybe the collective could go to sports together. There used to be a basketball team and a volleyball team. There were also weeks of playing basketball, where other great people were present, not just members of the Riigikogu. Look, Indrek's nodding, so that's what's happening right now. So there are sports opportunities. As far as the regions are concerned, as I said, it is also a big disadvantage that the opportunities for training are different for children and adults both in the city and in the country. On Earth, the environment is to some extent supportive of recreation. The countrymen may have more activities in the yard, but it is difficult to do something under the supervision of the supervisor because there is no infrastructure. Because of this, the health trails that became discussed are important. They should be illuminated tracks where training lessons can also be carried out. Or we could take the same plan of football halls as the coalition agreement says: start building football halls everywhere. Perhaps the message of the Ministry of Culture to the municipalities receiving state support for this is that grey should be multifunctional. There could also be physical education classes, there could be trails, maybe some more. These are regional ventures, actually. I did not stress Tallinn's needs at the moment, although they certainly do exist. In big cities, there are technical opportunities to exercise and exercise, but there are other financial obstacles, especially when it is not the Olympics. In these clubs, which do not receive direct support from local governments, the membership fees are quite high for children as well. Training may be of interest, but its remuneration may be an obstacle in Tallinn. Each region has its own problems. It has to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U195	Kaido Höökelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U196	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that the Olympics are a and o. It's like that in every country, it's like that all over the world, I totally get it. But I have a question: why has so little attention been paid to individual sport and also to temperate athletes in this review? They also have the Olympics, and I believe it would have been nice to leave them a small chapter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U197	Yes, very good pointing attention! In doing this report, we have selected specific topics, where it can be said that this time will require some new steps, innovations, or some very obvious achievements. Yeah, this report doesn't cover everything. However, more activities should be included in this annex, which is also available to you. There are details of the sector's activities. I can also say that in Estonia not all these decisions are made at the official political level of the Ministry of Culture. We have given EOK a so-called professional order to deal with such matters. The Estonian Olympic Committee already has the name of such a number of practiced areas are Olympiads. At the same time, gymnastics, fitness and other simple movement-related areas, which are even more popular than the Olympics, are also among the areas being practiced, and more is said. We also have about 60 sub-unions with less support and less membership. These apply to the local government, I know that this is a topic in Tartu, and in Tallinn it is a topic that receives subsidies all the time, but of course they receive little. So it is a permanent question that such more exclusive areas rely more on the person's own wallet and more generally on areas where the responsibility of the municipality and the state is clearly defined, receive more support. But sports federations need to talk it out between themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U198	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U199	Good manager! Good speaker! The report has become more colourful and beautiful pictures have emerged. But when the Minister of Culture was Indrek Saar, he brought us an example of Aadu Black, a colleague who takes 10,000 steps every day and no less. And as a curious example, he referred to our colleague today, Raivo Tammele, and suggested that we actually take a bicycle to work or walk a couple of bus stops. My question is how much you walk a day. And another thing: if 90% of children go outside once a day, how many steps could the average be?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U200	That's a good question! These are measurable criteria. It's a good thing you didn't ask for an assessment of someone other than me. Appreciate someone else just by looking at someone else, it's not pleasant at all. But for myself, if I get out of here, I'm gonna go to folk dance practice tonight. If I don't get there, I don't mind if we discuss this for a while, then I'm going to have some practice tomorrow. I don't have a schedule, and I don't read the steps, but generally nothing's too bad. So I don't take this very seriously, I take the movement creatively. Sometimes I move more, sometimes less than these 10,000 steps. As far as children are concerned, I can say that we all see that some of the children move in such a way that they take a few steps in the home room, the car is at the door, drives in front of the school, take a few steps in the school, then have the car at the door again, and go home. Even if there's some practice, they'll take the kid by car. Such a lack of movement is not enough. Yeah, that comfort's bad. I understand that there may also be certain reasons why parents have to deliver children by car, but in many countries different solutions have been found. Of course, it doesn't have to go crazy either, but let's just say that bus stops are there just in case, but the kids are put down a little early before school, they don't go to the door. You can use these semi-sensing methods. Anyway, I'm saying that as our parents, we have to make our children move more, take them out of the vat. And we also need to keep in mind that we must not always touch the phone or be on the screen. All the time in haste, we must not forget that we must also set an example for children with regard to movement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U201	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question concerns the Estonian Championship. Do you think that the situation in which we are forced to conduct them in some summer Olympics somewhere abroad is acceptable? Or do we still have to strive to organise them in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U203	Well, I could, of course, try to make an intelligent person look like me and calmly answer that I understood the reference. I can tell you that, yes, for example, sledding competitions definitely have to go to Latvia, but which summer Olympics have to be moved elsewhere? [[There's an answer in the hall.]] That's right, bicycling really, yeah. The surface of the area is narrowed because we don't have the Trek anymore. Basically, the city of Tallinn is currently negotiating with the country how to work this workout together. And it's going to be multifunctional: if it's going to be restored in Pirital, it should be for other areas too. In the middle, you could play ball and do some other competitions. It's a two-way thing. Yeah, some of the same glorious areas we've lost out on. Whether or not speed skating is an area where systematic work is still carried out in very few places. We only know one place where it's done a little bit and where you have to train outside. The small nations, unfortunately, do. It is also about knowledge and higher education, and some areas need to be practiced outside. Rather, if there are enthusiasts out there who move the area, society should come to their aid and try to support them. I don't know about specific areas, but that's how much I'm saying that if we ever build this Trek, this problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U204	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U205	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I ask how far negotiations have come on the exchange of clubs. This concerns the transitional fees for football clubs and perhaps dance clubs. Has the negotiations fallen into the sand, or do we still have reason to be optimistic?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U206	Yeah, that's a very interesting question. I actually don't know how much the country can contribute to these negotiations, these rules, exactly. Let's just say that we can, of course, ban the trafficking of children in human beings, as well as any criteria such that they do not go crazy. But setting these rules is a matter of sub-union clubs. I myself have at some point been a member of the union's board of competition dances, and I've been there to set things up before this exchange became completely commercial. There's a problem. But I have to say that I do not know exactly, by detailing the over-the-counter amounts that are mentioned in the negotiations between football clubs, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U207	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U208	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I ask you a question that I have asked several of your predecessors as well. I am concerned about sports opportunities for children with disabilities. It is known that in many schools disabled children are excluded from physical education classes, saying that there is nothing they can do anyway. At the same time, there are practices and knowledge of how to involve them in the movement. And secondly, the problem, I understand, is the lack of training for coaches. Coaches say they can't handle kids with special needs. Is there any progress in this area? Is there a plan to get a child with special needs to play better?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U209	Thank you. That's what I know. Coach training has started to take this more seriously. It's part of coaching. Their so-called short courses have some kind of block that addresses special needs or rather different needs. It may not always be a visible special need in the classic sense, not everything goes under invasion. However, once in my short career I have already been able to answer you on this subject. This is a fundamental issue regarding the transfer of children with special educational needs, as well as children with other special needs, from a special school to a regular school. This has been an educational policy course, but it has not exactly been reversed, but it has also been questioned in international pedagogy in didactic-philosophic terms. As far as I know the schools of children with special needs, things are very good with sports bases and supervisors. And basically, I don't mean to say that there's a lot of differences among people like you, but there's a lot more success stories in these schools. There are also competitions between schools, they are highlighted. In the normal class, they may never be among the first three with their skills, but in a special environment there is guidance, attitude, success experience at a different level. That is why I am saying that, as we approach this aspect, it seems that if the training of teachers does not come along, the closure of special schools and the placement of children in regular schools have given rise to some setbacks. So I'd discuss it in cooperation with the Department of Education, but I take it seriously myself, and if there's any way I can put my hand in it, if I have to, I'll take it equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U210	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We just got the proud PISA test results. My question is: how much data do we have to compare ourselves with the nearest and other European countries, on what level are we on about our exercise?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U212	Thank you, very good question! There are certain data available. I have read to you here the data that are measurable and available in many countries. For example, you can compare being outside, but I don't have that table with me right now. However, I gave an example, in comparison to Slovenia and Iceland, of the level of mobility of children and of the achievement of sport, which is the result of a national central sport policy. It creates opportunities, trains, and levels have increased considerably. Their level is better than ours. We should learn from them. But I don't have tables with very clearly measurable indicators here right now. After the report, I'll ask where they might be. There is generally no comparison within the OECD in the fields of culture and sport.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U213	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U214	Thank you, manager. Good minister! The questioner has already touched on the popularity of sport and you have answered Iceland and Slovenia, for example, by saying that they are more or less the same size as the population of Iceland is considerably smaller than we are, Slovenia is slightly bigger, 2 million, but something quite different is being done there. How are these two countries with a small population so successful in sport, especially Slovenia? I think it starts with the school system, sports at school. It all depends on how popular school sports are, how much sports they do at school. The number of hours of physical education in Estonia obviously does not satisfy us, and that is where it all begins. It all starts when you're a kid. Injecting sports germ for children is, in my opinion, particularly important. What are they doing differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U215	Thank you for your question. Here we agree. In my modest way, I mentioned earlier that everything started at school. Childhood habits are taken for life. Yes, it is about building sports bases and providing opportunities. If there's only a sports base and it can't be used, well, I can tell you that we've made mistakes. At some point in time, with public investment, we built regional gymnasts with schools for European money. This was very good: cultural and educational needs were combined and opportunities were given to people throughout the region. They built the school gym, but they won it all. However, the related requirements were not clear; they were, say, more rhetorical in nature. Some municipalities acted in such a way that they created a separate foundation that started managing this school's gym. The reason was that the building had to be managed, and the school alone couldn't do it. And then they started selling tickets to the schoolchildren for whom it was built. Kids could only play games for a reward there after hours or something else. It's totally against purpose. You shouldn't do things like that. What's going on in Iceland, we know very well. Much was said about this when they performed well at the European Football Championship. They have a football stadium in every village. Big government money was put together and stadiums were built everywhere. Everything has been put into playing football, such a football union project. That's the one thing we're trying to do easy. It was already said here that the state budget for next year will provide for this. In Slovenia, as far as I know, the club system is more inclusive than we do. One of the moments I can bring is the attitude towards sports schools. We had a hole in the meantime: some of the sports schools were demolished in the municipal system, or they were disbanded and told we had enough clubs. For example, as regards Tartu, I can say that some of the areas that had been developed before the sports school remained squeamish. In the meantime, there was a very serious signal that there was a need to start training coaches centrally again and to monitor their remuneration. The club often went out on the envelope wage, the training was not enough, the coaches changed quickly and the whole activity went down when the central responsibility of the sports school was no longer there. At present, the club system has improved to some extent, strong clubs with grants have developed and have their own youth system. Maybe we're getting over this childhood disease now. But we have made mistakes that some other countries have not made.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U216	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U217	Thank you! Dear colleague, thank you very much for your presentation. I would certainly like to congratulate the Ministry of Culture's Sports Department and the Minister that we now have such a wholesome notebook from which everyone interested in sports policy gets an overview of what is going on and what has been done. But I have two questions I'm trying to ask at once. Both of them are topics that you dealt with thoroughly in your speech. One is "The School Calling to Move." I also think that if we cannot move our children, hope that society will be healthy, it will be difficult. We've joined 78 schools in this movement. Here was an example of Iceland. It is very important that the undertaking is accompanied by a very knowledge-based and continuous monitoring, the transfer of data to the local community, to parents who in this way may be able to be moved to a slightly different way of thinking and acting. Do you and the Ministry of Education have any clear objectives regarding 'Alloquiding School' that you are suggesting to achieve in the coming years? And the second question. You were talking about coaching. What about coach wages next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U218	I'll start with the second question, that's a short answer. The national wage subsidy for trainers will increase by 2.5%, which is the overall possibility of increasing the salary fund for cultural workers. At present, this salary is EUR 1000. I do not know whether the trade unions will sign that, for example, EUR 1025 could be paid next year, which the municipalities and the state will guarantee together. But that doesn't mean it stays that way. This means that the state component, which is about half of the salary, would be like this. But the municipality and the club can always be added. So you can't say exactly that amount right now. These specific objectives are once again essentially focused on 2/3: to include two thirds of people in all age groups, this also applies to children. At present, this figure is 54%. But that's where we're going by 2030. How can we set footsteps like this? Well, I don't know, only with the additional percentages to take it all into account and enjoy it all, it's still an empty soul of deceitful joy. I think we could move on in general. Is it that last year added 1% and this year and next year added 1% and every year 1%? The aim could be to improve this indicator at all times. Of course, this could be the move towards two-thirds in practice. But there is also a non-measurable part: who goes home to take out a trash bucket or who lives how far from the schoolhouse, who rides there on a bicycle, or who stays with the school after playing ball. This is the part that we need to increase, because just going to practice is not enough. Even if a child goes to practice five times a week, which is basically like a top athlete's level at his age, other movements are also needed. If he trains five times an hour or an hour and a half, it's still less than ten hours a week. If there's no other movement, it's not enough, even if he's working out on a tight schedule.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U219	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U220	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There is such a great support group in the Riigikogu as the sports and exercise support group for people with special needs. When we met there with our Paralympic Committee and the Estonian Association of Special Olympics, their representatives expressed concerns about the lack of skills of physical education teachers and sometimes perhaps the easy way of resisting them. Those young people who have special needs but are studying in mainstream schools are little involved in competitions and other activities. A good colleague, Mrs Kersna, has already touched on this issue, and I understand that you are aware of this problem. Next time, can we hope for a better overview of the issues of the Paralympic and Special Olympics?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U221	Yeah, I can promise you that. I don't know who's gonna do the next year's report, but basically I can promise that. The current broadcast is also being watched at the Ministry of Culture and I ask that the next report also reflect the sport of people with special needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U222	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no more questions, now we can open negotiations. And in the negotiations, representatives of the political groups can speak or speak from the floor, etc. Now, the first speaker is Raivo Tamm from the Isamaa Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U223	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is with great joy and great pleasure that I come to you to speak about sport policy in particular. It is, of course, what gets a lot of attention in the media. As a result, various financial grants and scholarships for our top athletes will also gain more attention and strength and will also be welcomed by initiatives that support the honesty and transparency of our top sport. This is important because our top athletes are a role model for many young people, and positive examples help shape their habits. I am very much convinced that role models are important. In recent years, I myself have made a relatively big change in my life towards a sporty and healthy lifestyle by taking part in the good example of the Ironman Triathlon project. The impact of this personal decision must have been much greater than I expected at first. I had a few examples in the past, but I have developed some examples in this project, especially among our senior athletes, many of whom are also world champions, although they do not often hear about them in the media. Examples are important, especially for our young people. Research shows that our children and young people are not moving enough. All of this modern technology - smart devices and all of this - is the first choice of leisure for many young people. This means that, in addition to the role models, we need to encourage initiatives such as the 'Invitation School', which try to provide hours and recess hours with active movement. Creating a lifestyle is one of the basic prerequisites for children to continue a healthy lifestyle as adults. Looking back at my past, I often think about what my athletic results would be now if I had been able to continue at least regular sports after school and thwart the attacks on cigarettes, vodka and passionate women after the end of my high school. I am pleased to note that the share of our young amateur athletes has doubled over the last 15 years. I mean the age of 5 to 19. I also recently saw this with my four-year-old son on the way to the start of the Beehive Run of Tallinn Marathon: we had to wait a long time in the launch hall, because the launch was an enormous urge. Thanks to active communities, various grants and modern sports infrastructure, sports opportunities have significantly improved. But regional differences also stand out in recreational sport, just like in many other areas. In isolated areas, sports opportunities are not very good and we must make an effort to ensure equal opportunities for young people in Estonia. I think that if we really map out all the top athletes in Estonia who have reached the top of the world, we can find that a significant part of them come from rural areas. Therefore, I consider it important that proper sports conditions are guaranteed for everyone, not just for the children of the metropolitan area. Long live sporty Estonia, all of Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U224	Thank you. Next, I call on the Chair as a representative of the Group of the Dmitri Dmitriyev Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U225	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Sport teaches you to fight honestly, sport teaches you to lose with dignity. So sport teaches everything, he teaches life. That's what Ernest Hemingway said. It is difficult not to agree with a famous writer - sports have an important role to play in the development of personality. But is sport sufficiently valued in Estonia? What is the importance of sport in society? Should we be betting on top sports or public and health sports? I believe that sport plays an important role in the survival of the Estonian people. The women and men of Estonia live longer and longer, but the number of years we have lived healthy remains the same. Healthy men live on average 52,8 years of age and women 55,6 years of age. This means that the last part of our life's course passes mainly by taking pills or, worse, in a hospital bed. And you can't be satisfied with that. When I travel in Scandinavia and Central Europe, I look at the joyful pensioners who are walking in the balcony or riding the bike. Our pensioners, too, would deserve such a way of life. A study carried out by the Institute for Health Development shows that child obesity is a growing trend. This is in stark contrast to the fact that there have never been so many gyms, stadiums and health trails in Estonia. The runners were even thought of building Reid's road, where a soft - covered track was built. The big question is why the people of Estonia are not making sufficient use of the opportunities available. According to nutrition experts, child obesity is a social well-being challenge that can be prevented by starting to deal with the subject as a child. I'd like to compare sports practice with toothwashing: if an activity becomes a habit of being a countryman, it's gonna leave a person behind for the rest of his life. In order to address the problem of obesity and public health, it is essential to direct children to the sport road already in kindergarten. I agree with the President of the Estonian Olympic Committee, Urmas Sõõrumaa, who said yesterday in an interview with the "Actual Camera" sports news that child obesity is a problem that needs to be tackled through school sports. You can take the example of a successful initial swimming course. Good listeners! The draft state budget for 2020 has passed two readings. Of the planned sport investments, I would like to highlight one of the electoral promises of the Centre Party, the establishment of football halls. According to current plans, four halls will be built outside Tallinn. I would like to point out that this is far from sufficient, but at least the necessary project has been started. As the leader of the football support group of the Riigikogu, I am looking forward to the project: the football hall is needed at least in every county centre. There has been much talk in Estonia about tourism and the conference and tourism potential associated with Tallinn City Hall. In my opinion, however, little attention has been paid to sports tourism. In Estonia more and more football tournaments and other sporting events are organised for children, which also brings visitors from abroad. Parents usually travel with their children, leaving a considerable amount of money. The biggest sports event in Estonia is definitely Rally Estonia. I am pleased that the country will continue to support this great event. The state budget has a budget of EUR 1 million for this purpose. It's a great sight when hundreds of thousands of rally fans in South Estonia go along with their favorite team. The organisers of Rally Estonia have stated that their goal is to organise the WRC series phase in the coming years. It is certainly worth supporting these efforts, but more needs to be considered. Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U226	Please, two more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U227	We should think more globally. Why not apply for the right to organise the first stages of the most famous cycling tour de France? The millions invested will surely come back many times. Next year, the Olympic Games will take place in Tokyo. Since 2000, we have won at least one medal every summer Olympics. The Olympics are a four-year sports party and also a milestone to assess what has been done. The Estonian Olympic Committee's budget for next year is 14.4 million euros, which is 15% more than this year. The largest increase in EOK's top sport funding, which grows by 2 million euros, is 7 million euros. This gives confidence that our top athletes can properly prepare for the Olympics. I like to say there's a healthy spirit in the whole body. Yesterday we learned that PISA tests show that Estonian schoolchildren are the best in Europe. Let's keep this success going! As a sports friend, I propose a new big goal: that Estonia also have the most athletic and healthier people in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U228	Next, as a representative of the Kristina Šmigun-Vähi Reform Party, I would like to ask for a speech chair. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U229	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! 'The fundamentals of Estonian sport policy until 2030', this sounds very proud. But the question is, are these fundamentals still standing on strong, trained legs? When I got into numbers, you know, I got scared that the future of our sport actually stands... How do you say that? In school, I remember some people said your feet were like boiled macaroni. What if our sports policy stands on boiled macaroni? Yeah, well, it's true that top sports are doing pretty well, but are those kids who aspire to the top sports really okay? I know that the Estonian Olympic Committee will do everything to ensure that our potential medal winners can practice at world level. They have exactly the same conditions as those at the top of other countries. But those athletes who haven't reached the top, are they okay? And, you know, at one point, I had a picture of my childhood in front of me. I remember that Estonia had exactly the same winter as this year, and we needed money to go to the snow to train. We were told to show the results first, and then you get the money. And, of course, we went and trained skis on sawdust. In fact, the situation is exactly the same now. But I have another problem, not just what I was just talking about. Much greater concern is our young people and our children. We are proud that the number of children and young people involved in sport has steadily increased, but in fact only 24% of children and young people are physically active enough. So what do these 76% do? Or even more frightening knowledge: only a tenth of children aged 10 and older spend their free time outdoors active, every day. Here's the question, what do these other 9 kids out of 10 or 90 out of 100 or 900 out of 1,000 kids do? We have reached a situation where movement, unfortunately, is not a natural part of everyday life. Research from researchers at Tallinn University shows that Estonian students move less in fresh air a day than prisoners in prison. It is not just about sport, it is also about education, because children in poor physical form can do less. And that is also a social issue, because children in poor physical form are more often ill. In fact, it is a cross-cutting problem that needs intervention today, now and now. The University of Tartu's 'Nuclear School' programme has been supported by Norwegian financial mechanisms in the first years and will continue in the following year. Now, I'm asking you, doesn't that suddenly make us lazy? Shouldn't we be doing much more, even half as much? If Norway supports us, it is not enough. I think we should support this programme many times more, because it provides a basis for a full and healthy life. I am absolutely convinced that we, as a country, must create the conditions that all people, but above all children, would like to walk, ride, play on playgrounds. We need to raise awareness among young people and children so that they know that mobility is very important to health, and we need to raise awareness among parents. And we must not forget it as a country either. The lack of sports equipment is a major concern in many schools. There are schools where there aren't even enough balls or who won't allow our own rules, even during recess, to play with the balls. There's no way you can run in recess. I haven't figured out these stories myself. They've all hatched from meetings with schoolchildren, teachers, physical education teachers. These are the stories of life itself. It's about how the school stadium closes at six o'clock because the guard's hours are over. Some medals from top competitions can make us a lot of fun, but that's not the most important thing. If we do not create enough opportunities for the new generation to move and exercise as soon as possible, in 2030 the picture of the health of the Estonian people, and thus sustainability, will be considerably more sad than today. We need a very clear vision by 2020, not to mention 2030, and in view of the bigger picture of 2050. I call on us not to stop here. Our chance is to change, make things better. We all actually see what's going on. I sometimes wonder if we need these four-line roads to transport sick people from Tallinn to Tartu with free buses. Is that what we want? I am absolutely convinced that if we think bigger today, we will have healthier people in the future. I am sure that if children get the habit from childhood that movement is a normal and healthy part of life, we will ensure very successful development for our economy, our science and, therefore, our entire country. Yesterday...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U230	Dear speaker, time is on the move!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U231	I'll say my last sentence. Yesterday, in the discussion on the future of higher education in Estonian, Mikhail Lotman, presenting his final slide, said very correct words: the task of politicians is to create favourable conditions for language development. And today, to conclude my speech, I say that it is the task of politicians to create favourable conditions for the development of healthy people, both mentally and physically. And I'll add, right now, right now, and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U232	Thank you. The order now stands for Indrek Saar on behalf of the Social Democratic Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U233	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, First of all, in order to get everything straight, I have to say that Tõnis is in the role today, where he has to account for what I have done. In fact, half of this period is my fault as it has been. And I thank Tõnis for having a good word for his predecessor. But most of all, I would like to thank the sport sector itself, in my opinion, the sport sector itself has become increasingly and increasingly systematic in recent years. Acting in order to achieve results in top sport and, on the other hand, creating the necessary basis, i.e. knowingly promoting exercise, is delightfully systemic and holistic. This view does indeed reach from the foundation to the very top, which is very pleased. And on top of that, you can build some positive trends. Of course, I would also like to thank the Minister and the small sports department of the Ministry of Culture, who have shaped sport policy and put together a report on it for us. First of all, I am very pleased that honest sports rules are still being taken very seriously. There can be no tolerance in the case of doping, no tolerance. You can't forgive that. Otherwise, there is no justification why the state should allocate any sums at all for top sport. The only justification is that we teach some values, support the setting of an example. And that is not possible when good results are achieved along curves. I am pleased that both the Ministry and sports organisations continue to have a very clear position in this regard and that this issue is increasingly being put under more systematic emphasis, also by allocating resources to it. Secondly, when we look at this grey, unambitious budget that the Government of the Republic has presented to us, we also see things there that we can enjoy. I am pleased that one of these things is in the sport sector. It seems more ambitious that the increase in the funding of Team Estonia to three million has been brought forward by a year, which means an additional EUR 2 million. For this very great credit to the Minister that he has fought for this money. This is definitely going to the right place, because the system itself is well thought out in the field. I am very pleased that the system of supporting international sporting events is working. When it was created, there were doubters. It has proven itself very successfully, it goes on, creates new opportunities to organise competitions in Estonia. I hope that what the Minister, on behalf of the Ministry, said in response to Helmen Küt, he was going to question his ability to predict who will make this presentation next year will come true. This concerns the Estonian Paralympic Committee and the Estonian Association of Special Olympics. I hope that the work they are doing, bringing people with special needs to sport, will receive ever more systematic attention in the Ministry of Sport. From 1 January, we have a new situation: these associations will be funded through the budget of the Ministry of Culture. They have been brought to where they have wanted to be for years, they have become a natural part of the sport, which must be so. This will certainly lead to better results. I hope that the Ministry will systematically reflect and deal with this work in its next year's reports. In addition, this year the funds have doubled; next year they will increase by EUR 200000, which is, of course, to be welcomed. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U234	Three minutes will be set aside.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U235	Thank you. But I also have some critical remarks that I am forced to share with you. Tõnis Lukas spoke very nicely about the role of coaches in society. This was also a priority topic for the Estonian Presidency, and international conferences were held on this topic in order to talk about the problem more widely. Coaches have a very important role to play. They are not only capable of giving our children technical skills, but also people who need to understand how the child's body works. They must have medical knowledge and be educators. We expect them to be role models and often to be milder, repeaters of domestic problems. Assuming that they are doing their job without a motivational salary is probably not adequate. I am very sad that, in the last two years, when we were able to take a big step forward with coach salaries, what I said about coach salaries in general is that it is grey and unambitious. The 2.5% increase in trainer wages is at least twice as low as the average wage increase. We set the goal of moving towards average pay, but now we are taking a step backwards from the last two years, when coach wages rose by 33% and 18% respectively. I hope that next year will bring something delightful about this. I certainly hope that the implementation of the school programme that calls for action will become increasingly systematic. This is not only about the movement of children, but also about adults. It's when you're a kid, you get a sense of motion. But this requires that we reach the point that the Ministry of Education clearly states that every Estonian school must be a school calling for movement. It must not be the case that we only have selected schools with some project funding, which we set an example: see how wonderful it is! Every Estonian school must be a school that invites us to move, if we really want to change the way children move. I very much hope that the Minister for Culture and Education of this government, hand in hand, will soon present us with some plan on how we will actually get there. This, of course, should be accompanied by professional scientific monitoring and feedback to the community, parents. After all, as parents, we come from a time when these things were not broken up systematically enough, and we too need to be trained and educated. But this requires monitoring and implementation of the results of this monitoring. We also need to understand why it is good for an employer to be able to support our participation in the sports circle on a tax-free basis. And from time to time, you could take the baby with you. That's what I'm dreaming about. But I am very pleased that today we are also on the agenda to amend the law on sport, i.e. several years and a thoroughly prepared subject. It's an old problem! I hope that the revised sports law will finally provide the expected solution so that our top athletes and young people wishing to become top athletes' scholarships and pay for their work will eventually be properly regulated. I hope that this debate will be constructive. Power to the Minister of Culture, power to the sports!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U236	Thank you. No further wish to participate in the negotiations has been registered. To conclude the debate, the President will do what he should not do. He says, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, " The lost Hardi Tiidus claims to be a lie. The true phrase from antiquity is accurately translated: "Everything must be done to keep a healthy spirit in the whole body! ' I hope you don't mind. And I won't do it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U237	We are now going to the 11th item, and this is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Labour and the Law on Maritime Safety initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mrs Heljo Pikhof, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U238	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 18 November the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Maritime Labour Act and the Maritime Safety Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 56. No amendments to the draft were tabled between the first and second readings. The following procedural decisions were taken by the Commission: it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda, including 4 December, to propose that the second reading be closed and to propose that the final vote on the draft be taken. All the members of the Commission agreed; decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U239	Thank you. There's a question for the waitress, one for the time being. Yes, Avo Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U240	Good manager! Good waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U241	Ow, sorry, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U242	Maybe in a few words you'll tell me what the substance of this law is. If there were no proposals, it means that there was a very good bill. A few words.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U243	But this is not what we discussed in the Commission this time, it was discussed by us last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U244	Thank you, Aivar Chef! No more questions for the waitress. Is there a desire to open negotiations? There is no wish to open negotiations. No amendments to this draft were tabled and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 56. So the second reading is finished and we will move on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U245	Let's go to point 12. This is the second reading of the Tartu University Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Bill amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act 98. Rapporteur: Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee Helmen Kütt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U246	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good fellows! In order to recall what this bill is about, I give a small overview that the purpose of the bill is to establish legal bases for compensating medical residents' labour costs from the budget of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund from 2020. According to the draft, the costs of organising the residency, theoretical training and the basic institution of the residency are financed from the state budget. The staff costs of doctors-residents will be reimbursed by the Health Insurance Fund, so far all residency expenses will be covered through the Ministry of Social Affairs from the state budget. In principle, as from 1 January 2020, the Government of the Republic made a decision to reimburse medical-resident's labour costs through the Health Insurance Fund already at the meeting held on 21 September 2017, when the possibility of extending the income base of the Health Insurance Fund was reviewed. At that time, the government decided to move part of the services financed by the state budget to the sickness fund in order to reduce the fragmentation of funding and thereby increase the efficiency of the health care system. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft law amending the University of Tartu Act and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act on 21 October. On 22 October the Executive Board of the Riigikogu appointed the Social Affairs Committee as the leading committee. The first reading took place in this Chamber on 12 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 5.15 p.m. on 18 November. The members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not propose any amendments to the draft. The Committee on Social Affairs requested that the opinions of the stakeholders involved be submitted by 7 November. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund gave its opinion and, for the sake of clarity, proposed to supplement the wording of § 72 (7) of the University of Tartu Act. The Commission decided to support this proposal. The Commission decided to come to second reading at two meetings. One of them took place on 19 November, then the proposal of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund was heard here. This was precisely as I mentioned earlier in the proposal of the Health Insurance Fund to supplement the wording of § 72 (7) of the University of Tartu Act for the sake of clarity. Vootele Veldre, representing the Ministry of Social Affairs, announced that they would agree, and this proposal was fully taken into account. For exactly the same reason, for the sake of legal clarity, the word 'university law' was replaced by 'Law of the Government of the Republic'. The Committee on Social Affairs also took procedural decisions at this meeting: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 4 December; to propose that the second reading be closed; when the second reading is closed, to propose that the draft be sent to third reading on 11 December and that the final vote on the draft be taken. All these decisions were consensual. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs on 2 December, it was decided to approve the draft second reading procedural documents. This decision was also consensual. Thank you. I'd be happy to answer Aivar Koka's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U247	Thank you, dear waitress. Indeed, you have a question from Aivar Kokka. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U248	Thank you for a very meaningful presentation. But maybe you can elaborate a little on Amendment One. It now includes 'Estonian Health Insurance Board proposal'. Who else would have proposed this if not the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Council? Or was that mandate maybe on the board? Or who would have had the authority? I understand that this clarification is important and remains within the competence of the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U249	Thank you for this question, which touched on one of these amendments. As can be seen from the list of amendments and from the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the first point is that where it was written in advance only by a'regulation of the Minister responsible for the field', the 'Estonian Health Insurance Fund' proposed by the Council of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund' will now be added. This change is made in terms of legal clarity. The second point is that since the new Higher Education Act entered into force on 1 September 2019 and the old university law was repealed, the word 'University Act' is replaced by 'Government of the Republic Act'. These are the two changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U250	Thank you. Aivar Chef, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U251	Thank you for your answer. I'll just be more specific once. Did I get it right that the Minister may have done this earlier by order, but in the future it will be the decision of the Health Insurance Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U252	Yes, that is not how we raised this issue in the Committee on Social Affairs. As wise a question as you asked in this Chamber, none of the members of the Commission asked. But I get it the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U253	Thank you. There don't seem to be any more questions for the waitress. So thank you to the waitress. Now is the time for us to open negotiations on this item. The request for negotiation has not been registered. In that case, we need to discuss the amendments, which are two. One proposal is to amend section 1 (4) of the draft, which amends... I am told not to read the whole amendment. So I don't count. Anyway, the first amendment to the amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. If no one protests, we'll move on. Here is the second amendment. This too has been presented by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. As no one is protesting, these amendments have been taken into account and the second reading of the 98th draft has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U254	Let's move on to agenda item 13. This is the second reading of the draft Act on the Election of the European Parliament, on the Election of the Local Government Council, on the Election of the Riigikogu, on the Amendment to the Law on Referendum and on the Penal Code (abolition of restrictions on electoral agitation on election day and ban on outdoor advertising). The rapporteur is Hanno Pevkur, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U255	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, With this draft, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has worked very hard and even broken the peaks. But I will then try to give you an overview of what happened between the first and second readings in the Commission. First of all, one technical clarification: the Commission initially agreed that this draft would be submitted today by Andrei Korobenik, but since Andrei was more interested in legal issues, he headed to the Committee on Legal Affairs and therefore the Committee on Constitutional Affairs needed to find a new person who became the speaker here. I would like to remind you that the Government of the Republic has already initiated this draft on 9 September. On 25 September the first reading took place in this Chamber and at that time we set the deadline for tabling amendments on 9 October. One amendment was received by the deadline; it was tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I'll come back to that in a little while, but first I'll tell you what else happened between us. We listened to the interest groups. We received information about the supervision of the funding of political parties from the Commission, the Chancellor of Justice, the Association of Marketers, the Estonian Association of Media Agencies, the Estonian Association of Field Media Enterprises, the electoral services of the state and political parties. We also received an opinion from the Chancellor of Justice and from some of the aforementioned associations. We discussed this draft on three occasions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on 11 and 12 and 19 November. We first listened to the Federation of Marketers. In particular, the Union proposed that electoral agitation should be prohibited on election day. As a key remark, the Association of Marketers pointed out that electoral agitation on election day would negatively affect the image of the marketing and electoral campaign and would disturb voters. They believe that this would also give politicians the opportunity to use unethical techniques on election day, which is why they believe that the election campaign and all agitation should be prohibited on election day. In preparation for the second reading on 11 November, we also discussed the Socialist proposal for the first time. In particular, the Socialist proposal concerned a proposal to the Government of the Republic and it was formulated as an inscription into the law of an analysis of the limitation of election costs. According to this proposal, the Government of the Republic should prepare an analysis by 1 September 2020 and on this basis submit proposals to the Riigikogu to reduce the impact and waste of the money used in the elections. Members of the Commission considered this proposal in this wording to be rather inappropriate for the draft and the law. In so far as it is a proposal to the Government of the Republic, there is a separate possibility of making a decision by the Riigikogu. That is why the overwhelming majority of the Commission, with the exception of the Socialist representative, Lauri Läänemets, did not support this amendment. Since the proposal received only one vote of support in the committee, according to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, this proposal will not come to the vote in this Chamber today. We then discussed two fundamental points of view. The first was whether active electoral intervention or any other electoral intervention should be allowed on election day or not. From the party of the Reform Party, I, Taavi Rõivas and Vilja Savisaar considered it right that active electoral intervention or any other electoral intervention should not be allowed on election day, which should be prohibited, as is currently the case in the law. The coalition had a similar opinion for the time being. So we had this situation that, on 11 November, the Commission decided to make one amendment to the draft, which would maintain the ban on active electoral intervention on election day. This was supported by Lauri Läänemets, Marek Jürgenson, Oudekki Loone, Vilja Toomast, I said before Vilja Savisaar, I am sorry, Hanno Pevkur and Taavi Rõivas. Paul Puustusmaa, Siim Kiisler and Kalle Grünthal were opposed. As such, this was included in the table of amendments proposed by the Commission. The next day, Tuesday, November 12, this topic came up again. In this sitting, we had a specific question that was still open and that was postponed to 19 November. On 19 November there were a lot of alternate members on the Commission: Mr Heiki Hepner, Mr Oudekki Loone, Mr Kallo, Mr Keldo, Mr Kalle Grünthal, Mr Kert Kingo, as alternate member of Mr Taavi Rõivas. At this meeting of the committee, the chairman suggested that this earlier amendment should be rejected, perhaps not submitted to the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, so that electoral agitation would be allowed on election day. This amendment to withdraw the earlier amendment was put to the vote. Three votes were cast in favour of a ban on electoral agitation and five against it. In the interests of the protocol, it should be said that Vilja Toomas, Hanno Pevkur and Erkki Keldo were in favour of the prohibition of electoral agitation on the election day, and Paul Puustusmaa, Heiki Hepner, Marek Jürgenson, Kalev Kallo and Kert Kingo were opposed. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the Commission decided that this amendment would not be tabled. As a result, this proposal is not included in the list of amendments and on election day, if the Riigikogu supports this draft, then agitation is allowed. As the third major topic we discussed, the question on the table was where electoral agitation could take place. In particular, the current law provides that electoral intervention must not be carried out either in the premises in front of the electoral room or in the premises in which the ready-to-eat room is located, but insofar as it is a relatively unsuccessful construction, the table had a choice as to whether to prohibit electoral intervention in the building in which the electoral room is located or to leave only the electoral room. As a result of the long debates we had in the Commission, we stayed in the explanations of the electoral service, with which the electoral service said that the electoral space in the current law would be interpretable and understandable for them through the fact that the electoral space is always a separate room and, if there is no separate room, for example, in the atrium of the shopping centre, it will be separated by temporary walls. As a result, the draft remained unchanged, i.e. in the future, electoral agitation is prohibited in the electoral room. Let me give you some examples. If the polling district is somewhere in the cultural house, then in the room of the cultural house where the polling district is located, such as the large hall of the cultural house, electoral agitation is prohibited, but the lobby of the cultural house is not prohibited. The same is true of the atriums of the supermarkets. If the voting room is somewhere in the atrium, electoral services and polling stations are restricted by the walls of the electoral room and outside such a restricted voting space, electoral intervention is permitted. These were three fundamental issues which attracted greater attention between first and second readings in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As formal decisions, it was decided that the second reading was today and that the Commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading. It was also proposed that the draft be sent to third reading, including on 11 December, should the second reading be terminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U256	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I do not understand what this bill is trying to achieve. But on the basis of your report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will not understand this either if it changes its mind that way. [[He's snapping his fingers.]] I have one version, and please tell me if it's the wrong idea or if it's true. Isn't that the kind of nostalgic bill from the time that 99.8% of voters were elected, mandarins and wieners were distributed, and together were the dance collectives of the very beautiful election day? Is that what this bill is finally trying to achieve?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U258	Thank you. Mr. Stalnukhin! I believe that you should first discuss what this desire is within the coalition with each other. I really sincerely hope that the result of the adoption of this draft is not that, on the last election day, which is the most active of all election days or election days and a more concentrated number of voters, we are not going to see people travelling on free public transport or, worse still, carrying buses to and distributing mandarins to them by separate polling stations. I really hope so, I really hope so. And in that sense, I share a little bit of your concern that agitising on election day is a problem. We expressed this concern in the Commission and, in addition to us, expressed it, as I said, also the Union of Marketers. However, since it was the wish of the Commission, or more precisely the Government Union, to allow electoral intervention again on election day, the Commission has indeed re-decided. However, since there was no political group's proposal on this, but it came as a Commission proposal which the Commission itself withdrew, unfortunately Mikhail Stalnukhin cannot at present express either sympathy or opposition to whether electoral agitation is allowed or prohibited on election day. This is because there is simply no such amendment in front of the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, as the Commission did not propose it. So if there is any other desire to change this, then the only option is that some of the political groups are proposing to interrupt second reading, and the big hall supports it. In that case, it would be possible to table this issue again in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and there is no other option at the moment. When the second reading is closed, this draft will be adopted at the third reading in such a way that the restrictions on outdoor advertising and other advertising have disappeared, which is reasonable in itself, but there was never any question in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this could be a wrong idea. This was also supported by all visitors to the Commission and those who sent an opinion in writing. But, as I said, there were three issues on the table as a major debate: the proposal of the sots and the proposal whether or not electoral agitation should be allowed on election day, and the way in which the concept of electoral space is set out. Those three subjects were on the table. In other respects, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs considered it right to support the draft that had come from the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U259	Thank you. Aivar Chef, a question please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U260	Good manager! Good waitress! Thank you for your explanations on what happened in the Commission. I'm reading the explanatory statement, and I have a question. The representatives of the national electoral service explained that in the atriums of shopping centres the voting space is separated from the other room with sliding walls, etc. And then I read from here that the committees have been sent instructions stating that the part to be voted on must be separated from the other room and that no outsiders must pass through it. However, these instructions do not state anywhere that there must be sliding doors. In the next elections, have all the elections in the atriums been made with sliding doors? Does the state budget need to take into account the need to make sliding doors or how to understand it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U261	Thank you for your question. This has to be understood as the law states: electoral agitation is forbidden in the electoral room. Indeed, the way in which the notion of an electoral space is furnished has been given the competence of the electoral service. The electoral service provides guidance to polling stations on how to limit the electoral space, especially in those places where it is difficult to limit the electoral space to the physical, so-called existing walls. For example, when we talk about schoolhouses or cultural houses where polling stations are usually located, there is no question. Is it a classroom or something else in their case, it is clear that this is an election room, and there is no question. Indeed, the issue arises, in particular, in the case of the atriums of the shopping centres and the polling stations located there. These recitals and explanations received by the Commission from the electoral service gave rise to the understanding that they are not about sliding, but about temporary mobile walls that are still being used. Imagine the brass boxes. They've been used there. The selection room is restricted to such a light portable wall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U262	Thank you. Aivar Chef, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U263	Thank you very much for your meaningful answer. I'd like to ask you about the same subject. I will also read from this explanatory memorandum the sentence that the district committees have been instructed accordingly. I hope that it is not meant here that we already know in advance which precinct committees will be in the next election, but that previous committees will still be guided and new committees will be guided in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U264	Thank you. You've got it all right. Indeed, the task of the state electoral service is to ensure compliance with the law in elections. Similarly, it is the task of the municipal and city polling departments and the electoral committees. And, of course, it does not concern existing committees, but still those of future elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U265	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no more questions. It is possible to open negotiations. Raimond Kaljulaid, please! [[Raimond Kaljulaid explains something.]] But at this point, at second reading, everyone can talk. Does the speaker want to represent the Social Democrats?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U266	I wish I could.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U267	We will add a mandate to the minutes that Mr Kaljulaid will represent the Socialist Group here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U268	I am truly honoured to represent the Socialists. First of all, Mr Pevkur, I would like to thank you for the fact that this question of the upper limit, I understand, was only behind the level of formalisation and processing. When the Social Democrats come to the hall with a more precise bill, I'm counting on your support. That is how I understood your explanation, and I think this is an important step forward. I think that the Reform Party is certainly also interested in ensuring more equal opportunities in elections. I am a person who has been somewhat involved in electoral campaigns since 2002, and I can really say to my heart that I do not understand why the Riigikogu wants to permit election ads on election day. I think it is good practice that this has not been done so far, and there is no need to stop it. In fact, I think that most of the people who have elected this Riigikogu agree. And actually, I suspect that a lot of politicians here in the salis wouldn't want to campaign on election day. I haven't met a single person in 20 years who would demand more election ads. We're all imagining what's going to happen. I think Mr Stalnukhin is absolutely right. There is an opportunity to plow voters from their sleeves on election day, to jerk them off with pens and candy, why not also wieners and tangerines. Radio and TV are full of commercials. That's not a good idea. After all, we have a warning example of the previous elections. As we know, two ministers of today's government broadcast their propaganda show on the radio, and there was a huge controversy around it. I don't think we should legitimize this behavior. I would point out once again that companies that could benefit from this change are also against it. They say please don't give us that money, we don't want to do this commercial. In this context, I am pleased to hand over the proposal to interrupt this draft by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. And, as Mr Pevkur rightly pointed out, by supporting the cut-off proposal, it is possible to rule out an active electoral intervention for citizens on election day. I hope that you will all support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U269	Now, we have a proposal to cancel, but the negotiations must be concluded first. Will Mr Pevkur speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group or on behalf of himself?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U270	I can speak on behalf of everyone on this bill, no problem. Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of this draft, indeed, it is the substance that the political parties really should not argue about very much, because all parties are also taking part in the elections, even those parties that are not presently in this Chamber. A consensus on this draft would therefore be essential. Of course, the government coalition will be able to impose its will if all its members vote in the same way and everyone understands it in the same way. I also understand the government's desire to support the Minister of Justice, who brought this bill into this hall. In itself 95% or more of the content of this draft is very reasonable. Indeed, this restriction on election advertising is not justified in any way and everyone understands that it is essentially correct. The only place that the Reform Party did not understand about this draft, or, let's say, worrying, is, in fact, because other electoral topics are still not dealt with at this moment, the election day and the agitation on election day. I understand what the election service is saying that we actually have more election days and the elections are starting earlier. But this Sunday election day is a concentrated day when there are the highest number of voters and can't vote electronically, which means that the only way to choose is to go to the station. Imagine now a cultural house with a polling district and a voting room in the large hall, and in the lobby of the cultural house there are candidates for the respective district of all parties and everyone gives something. I think that we will achieve this by reducing the turnout because people do not really approve of it. At the time of the advance vote, everyone has the right to decide for himself whether to choose electronically, to go to another station. He'll pick the moment he goes to the station. But on election day, it's so concentrated, and allowing such an insane brainwashing would be wrong in my opinion. This allows, in particular, for those who do not respect the good electoral and electoral rules to behave in such a way that they pick up someone's car or bus, offer mandarin, as Mr Stalnukhin said, and lead them to choose. In a sense, Estonia has been a good electoral and good tradition that on election day, the city's picture is clean and the candidates in front of the polling stations are clean. I don't know, maybe it would really make sense to interrupt the second reading right now. You put this proposal on the table, so it goes to the vote. Once again, the majority of the content of this draft does not oppose the Reform Party, certainly not, but the agitation of the election day should certainly, in my opinion, be banned and the election day kept clean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U271	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Negotiation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U272	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am not here as a representative of a group, obviously, but as a person who has survived 18 election campaigns in his life, so I do have a certain experience. Look, I don't know where to start right now. Here's a thousand things to talk about in connection with election day agitation. First, why is it being changed? At first reading, it was the sound of those responsible for order on election day not doing their job and need to be lightened. If that is the case, and if we are principled, then we should also change other laws. If, for example, one organisation or another fails to complete the fight against drugs, we will allow drug use. If everyone doesn't get well in the hospital, why do they die anyway? Jne. That's weird. It's strange to resign, to give up order to make someone's life more comfortable. The rest of this law can be accepted, but not the permission of the election day's agitation. My colleague Aivar Kokk found, as usual, a weak spot in the atrium of the shopping centre. They're putting up temporary walls. I'm going to go and put my dialects on the balcony on the second floor, this 6 × 12 m poster, so big, you can't get away from it. And I'm not alone, everyone else is doing the same. I mean, I'm in the election room, there's no agitation here, but no one can prohibit it outside. Are you going to measure the height of the polling room and are you going to expand that room from the top? I think that it was not in vain that one decision, once another, was taken in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. After all, people have experience, and they understand the stupidity involved. As an active politician, who understands what kind of trouble we might run into here, I personally declare that I support the proposal of the sots. Not because I like to support myself, it is out of the question, but I certainly support their proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U273	Thank you. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. We have received a proposal from the Group of the Social Democratic Party to interrupt the debate on draft 51. We will do this once we have examined the amendments. The amendments are one. It has been submitted by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, but since the commission has disregarded it, according to Paragraph 106 (2) of our Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. So the amendment is off the table. But now let's move on to the drop-off proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I call the time and I vote on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the draft law on the election of the European Parliament initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act on the election of the local government council, the Act on the election of the Riigikogu, the Act on the amendment of the referendum and the Penal Code (abolition of the restriction of electoral agitation and the ban on outdoor advertising on election day) at second reading 51. Please take a stand and vote. There were 20 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal for interruption, 50 against. Consequently, the debate on the draft is not interrupted and the second reading is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U274	The next item in our debate is... [[In the diner.]] Chez! The next item on our agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the State Fees Act. The rapporteur is Mr Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U275	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft law amending the Law on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and the State Fees Act 8 at its meetings of 28 May, 4 June, 23 September and 11 and 21 November. The purpose of the draft is to strengthen the competence of the FIU in the authorisation and supervision procedures and to lay down requirements for the application for further authorisation for company service providers, financial institutions and providers of virtual currency services. The measures taken to mitigate the risks associated with these service providers would enable the control of these areas of activity to be restored and kept out of the market by companies that do not actually operate in Estonia and are not subject to supervision in Estonia. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U276	Hey, ladies and gentlemen! The buzz is getting so big that the honorable waitress can't deliver her message in any way. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U277	In accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, the draft was sent to interest groups involved in the preparation of the draft opinion. The opinions were received from the Financial Supervision Authority, FinanceEstonia, the Estonian Cryptorah Association. Most of the stakeholders concerned took part in the Commission meeting on 28 May. At the meeting on 23 September, representatives of the Estonian Banking Association commented on their opinion on the draft. In addition, there were additional meetings with different parties and a similar law regulating this area was introduced in Finland. By 18 November, the Commission also requested an opinion on the draft amendments drawn up in cooperation with representatives of the Commission and the initiator. Opinions related to the draft can be found on the Riigikogu website on the bill card. Some of the proposals received from stakeholders were supported by the Commission and reflected in the list of amendments. The Ministry of Finance is preparing a draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and related amendments to other laws transposing the European Union Money Laundering Directive. In the context of the discussion in the Riigikogu, proposals received from interest groups and not included in this draft can be discussed again on this occasion. A draft plan is also being drawn up to consider the transfer of virtual currency supervision to the Financial Supervision Authority as a whole. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 3 June at 5.15 p.m., the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft. The Committee on Finance, in cooperation with the initiator, produced ten amendments. The explanations of the amendments are set out in the list of amendments to the corresponding proposal. A number of procedural decisions and proposals were also made by the lead committee. The Finance Committee proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading, including on 4 December. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading. When the second reading is closed, the Commission's proposal to put the draft for the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including 11 December, and to hold a final vote. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U278	Thank you, dear waitress. Anyone want to ask me a question? Yes, he does. Jürgen Ligi has a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U279	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! Is this the end of this money laundering? And can the guilty be punished afterwards?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U280	Thank you, Jürgen, for a very good question. You've gotten into this bill, and I'm sure you know there's more talk about virtual money here. We have very clearly specified the rights and obligations of virtual money handlers. As you know, there are more than a thousand providers of moving money in virtual currency in Estonia, while there are less than ten in Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U281	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. It is possible to open negotiations. Since no one has shown a wish for negotiations, negotiations will not be opened. Now we need to express our views on the amendments. This is not a very difficult task, since there are 10 amendments in total, all the proposals have been made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and they have been fully taken into account by the commission. There is therefore a reason for the draft 8... But now I'm told that I still have to read out all the changes so that everyone can follow closely. What? In short, the first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the commission has taken full account of it. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account. Third amendment from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and fully taken into account. The fourth amendment, from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been taken fully into account. The fifth amendment, made up by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the commission of directors, has taken full account of it. The sixth amendment, also from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. The seventh amendment from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the lead committee have taken full account of it. The eighth amendment, again from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has been fully taken into account by the commission. The ninth amendment, also from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. Finally, the 10th amendment from the Committee on Finance and, of course, the Steering Committee has taken full account of it. I fixed myself and read all the numbers, but otherwise we'd have gotten through it a lot sooner, but that's the order. Second reading of Bill 8 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U282	The 15th item is the second reading of the draft law 106 on amendments to the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur is Mr Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U283	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft initiated by the Government of the Republic, including on 12 November, creates the possibility for recipients of maternity or redundancy benefits in the fourth quarter to postpone part of their benefit for tax purposes to the following year in order to use their tax-free income at the current level. The draft takes over a corresponding European Union directive amending the directive on tax mismatches with third countries. The aim is to avoid double non-taxation. It also exempts subsidies paid from the state budget to improve the living conditions of a family rich in children and improve the energy efficiency of a small house. It also provides that the additional tax-free income for the child is not reduced if the child receives a survivor's pension or a national pension in the event of the loss of the wager. The additional tax-free income for the child will increase by EUR 100 per month from the third child. In addition, income received from abroad by a resident natural person, including deductions from taxable income equivalent to retirement income received in Estonia, shall be guaranteed. The deadline for submitting the tax return will also be extended until 30 April and the deadline for paying and refunding income tax will be extended until 1 October. The draft passed first reading on 18 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was 28 November. During the procedure, the Commission addressed the following interest groups involved in the preparation of the draft: Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Estonian Taxpayers' Association, Estonian Employers' Confederation, Auditor Assembly and FinanceEstonia. The Commission received three categories of comments. The Board of Auditors asked not to include an amendment to § 50 (11) of the Income Tax Act in the draft if such a proposal were to be received. Such an amendment has not been submitted to the Commission. Originally, the draft prepared by the Ministry of Finance included an amendment to that provision, according to which dividends from the European Economic Area and Switzerland could have been distributed tax-free in the future if the dividends received had been taxed. The amendment was withdrawn from the draft in the Government of the Republic before it was sent to the Riigikogu. The Estonian Employers' Confederation asked to extend the exemption from the employer's special preferential tax to health care services and medicines. One amendment was received from the Riigikogu by the deadline, which was from a member of the Riigikogu, Helmen Küt. According to this amendment, a resident natural person would have the right to deduct from the income of the tax period the costs he has paid during the tax period for the general care service provided outside his home by a relative in need of assistance or by an ascending relative who is unable to support himself. The Commission's consultation expressed the view that the income tax incentive may not address the most needy, as tax deductions support those who have a higher income and do not benefit people on low incomes. Similarly, solving this problem is not a matter of tax law, but rather of subsidies and local government in the place of residence. On a proposal from the Minister for Finance, the Commission made an amendment to the extension of the deadline for the submission of the tax return set out in the draft (amendment No 3) and this is explained in the list of amendments. In addition, the Committee on Monetary Affairs made a number of technical clarifications in the draft concerning the reference and location of the standard. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading and, once the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading, including on 11 December. I would like to stress that this draft resolves a great many of the concerns that the opposition also proposed improvements to the state budget, and these are in here today. On Monday, the Committee on Monetary Affairs also found from the state budget the sources of cover that the topics promised in the draft law would be included in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U284	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. There are questions. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U285	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In the interests of the verbatim report, and in order for the people who listen to it to know: would you explain with a few simple examples the issue of pensions concerning receiving a pension from abroad and receiving a pension from Estonia and taxing it? Will this bill eliminate this injustice?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U286	If there is a difference in tax liability in different countries, all pensioners living in Estonia who receive pensions from different places will have the same income tax rate as all other pension recipients in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U287	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. The round of negotiations begins. Would anyone like to participate in the negotiations? Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U288	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! I think this is a very good bill. It solves a number of problems and makes people's lives better. Conflicts that occurred in one or another part of the law will also be resolved. However, I would like to stop for a moment on the subject of nursing home expenses. Since, indeed, in order for the amendment from the Commission to come to the vote in the large Chamber, two votes were needed and our one member in the Commission was not enough here, so this proposal cannot be voted on, I considered it necessary to explain why I proposed it. Next year's state budget doesn't include anything for the caretakers. This does not solve the problem of nursing home fees, often beyond the responsibilities of children and grandchildren. It also does not solve a situation where receiving a grant or service depends on the possibilities of the municipality of residence of the person, even if the municipalities are often underfunded by their priorities. My proposal would have made no difference but that those people who pay the part of the cost of nursing homes for which the pension is not sufficient would have the right to apply for a 20% refund in the income tax return. We have expanded many things here, and that is correct, for example, in the case of children. It's all right. But we owe our elderly. The pension will increase from 1 April, but it is known that the pay for nursing homes will increase from 1 January in several municipalities. We know that the average pension will increase by 45 euros, as people like to say here, but it will not be the case for some people. On the other hand, it is known that the fee for the place of care will increase by EUR 100, while in some places the amounts of EUR 130 are very different, and this has been the case since January. That is why this proposal was presented. I'm sorry. I hope that in this Chamber it would perhaps have received a vote of support from the good colleagues. In any case, I considered it necessary to explain what my proposal was. And now just the figures: from year to year, we see how, according to the family law, the obligation for loved ones to pay 65% in 2010, compared to 79% in 2018. However, the costs incurred by the municipalities have decreased considerably, even in terms of the share they have paid, despite the fact that the State has allocated funds to the municipalities. But yes, they are certainly not enough to make all the decisions that have been imposed on the municipalities as an obligation. I am very sad that none of my fellow Members in this committee, although I respect them, have the right to choose and to decide, did not give this absent voice so that this proposal could have been put to the vote in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U289	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. Now there will be amendments and there will be three. Here is the first amendment, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. The second amendment is from Helmen Hunt and has been rejected by the commission. Since, as the honourable speaker himself said, it received only one vote in the committee, according to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. The third amendment is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the commission. We have examined the amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 106. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U290	We are going to the next item on the agenda and this is the 16th item: Draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws. I am pleased to welcome the rapporteur, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Aivar Kokka. It's a second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U291	Thank you, manager. Ladies and gentlemen, On 25 September, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws. The content of the draft is as follows: In order to curb border trade, the planned increase in excise duty on cigarettes by 2020 will be reduced from 10% to 5% and a 5% increase in excise duty will be foreseen for 2021 to 2023. In 2021, the excise duty on smoking tobacco will be increased by around 8.3% to account for 2/3 of the minimum amount of excise duty on cigarettes, as well as for 5% increases in excise duties for 2022 and 2023. The increase in excise duty for 2020 will not be changed. In addition, in order to benefit from the excise benefit granted to small brewers, the production limit for beer is increased from 0,6 million litres per year to 1,5 million litres per year. The definition of "heatable tobacco products" is also clarified. No specific definition will be established for tobacco products intended for use by heat treatment, as long as this issue is not supplemented by a directive on excise duties. The amendments delete the reference to a heated tobacco product in the definition of cigarettes and smoking tobacco and add a paragraph under which tobacco products containing tobacco for consumption by heating are subject to the provisions of the Excise Act on smoking tobacco. For reasons of legal clarity, the principles of fiscal labelling of excise goods are clarified. Clarification of tax labelling rules for alcohol and tobacco products contributes to better tax collection and facilitates surveillance. The draft was concluded at first reading on 22 October and the deadline for tabling amendments was set at 5 November. The Committee on Finance turned to the 11 stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft for feedback, and most of them also provided feedback. This can be seen on the website of the Riigikogu on the map of the draft 106. The opinions mainly concerned the following issues: taxation of e-cigarette filling fluid at a lower rate than before, adequacy of the deadline between the adoption and entry into force of the draft for ordering cigarette tax marks, the objectives and necessity of extending the excise benefit to small-beer manufacturers, the reduction of excise duty on natural gas and liquefied gas, and the application of the excise concession for companies with intensive gas consumption to a wider range of companies, including glass products. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft three times after its first reading, including on 12 and 21 November and 2 December. At its meeting on 12 November, the Commission met representatives of five interest groups, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Rural Affairs to discuss the question of extending the scope of excise duty relief for companies with reduced gas excise duties and intensive gas consumption and the issue of excise preferences for small brewers. One amendment was received by 12 members of the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments, and it concerned excise taxation of e-cigarettes and filling fluids. According to the amendment, nicotine-containing e-cigarette liquids would be taxed in the future on the basis of nicotine levels similar to Latvia. The same topic was addressed by the referrals of several interest groups. The Commission found that the current price difference is high compared to Latvia, but it is disproportionately difficult and costly for the tax administration to control the level of taxation based on the nicotine content. Today's Latvian practice also points to this. The Committee on Finance did not support the amendment. At the beginning of 2020, the Ministry of Finance will analyse the taxation of e-cigarettes' filling fluid and the Commission will expect a legislative initiative in this regard. Two amendments to the draft were unanimously proposed by the Finance Committee on a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Amendment 2 clarifies the rule aimed at making the temporary transport of excise goods to another Member State economically pointless in the context of a reduction in excise duty rates in order to apply a lower rate of excise duty. Amendment 4 makes it unnecessary, by way of derogation, to return old tax stamps for cigars and cigarillos branded before 2018, provided that new tax marks are affixed to them. Several of the requests received by the Commission also concerned the application of the gas excise duty advantage for companies with intensive gas consumption to the wider range of companies, in particular for glasshouses. The Commission made an amendment to the draft, which would also allow excise duty relief for companies with high gas consumption to be granted to those whose main activity is not the supply of electricity, gas, steam and air conditioned air but which produce electricity and heat as a by-product for the production of products produced in their main activity. The Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft. When the second reading is closed, the Commission's proposal to place the draft for the third reading on the plenary agenda, including 11 December, and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U292	Thank you, dear waitress. There are questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U293	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I have a question about how the excise duty is calculated today. Who's counting on it, and who's paying the excise duty? I'm asking for legal clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U294	The excise duty is paid by the importer and the excise money is collected by the Tax and Customs Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U295	Thank you. Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U296	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! People in the Ministry of Finance feared that the importers might put something else in the produce, or that it would be stronger. Let us give a simple example: instead of a 40 degree vodka, the 58 degree Viru Kange is. Has there been evidence of this being the case here in Estonia for the toughest liquids? Or is the fear of officials in vain?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U297	Thank you for a good question. I must tell you that the Commission did not bring this matter up. I understand that it was under discussion in the ministry when the initiators of the draft and the people of the ministry met. However, it was clear in the Commission that this draft had to be moved forward in January and proposed a compromise proposal that taxation on tobacco content would not be more appropriate to say 'nicotin content', but that a single rate would be set for all nicotine-containing liquids. In Latvia, the highest rate is 11 cents, if I remember correctly. In Estonia it could be 10 cents on average, regardless of nicotine content. I understand that most of the proposers are also prepared to support this compromise proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U298	Thank you. No further questions. Now is the opportunity to participate in the negotiations. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, the chair is yours!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U299	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good coworkers! Those who already know can recall that it was only on 13 February that we have just dealt with the transposition of the Tobacco Directive and the so-called track-&-trace bill here. The Smoke-free Estonian Support Group and our thinkers made a number of proposals, one of which also concerned tobacco excise duties. We came up with two things. Firstly, it is not ethical to tax what it does not contain in a case. Everybody seems to understand. Another thing is that, if nicotine is an addictive substance, we should give consumers some incentive to use some less dangerous substance, or shorter nicotine. However, the idea came from the Ministry of Finance that everything could be taxed in the same way. The opinion was that the base liquid, or glycerin, used as a base liquid, should also be taxed because of nicotine, although the liquid itself does not contain it. The reason was the fact that people use this nicotine to dilute. For those who did not follow this point: many people dilute alcohol with water, lemonade, tonic, juice, we also apply alcohol excises because they dilute alcohol. Just as in the case of alcohol dependence, we could still support people taking products with a lower nicotine content. That little bottle costs nine euros today. [[Shows a small bottle.]] There are about 90% glycerine in this bottle, there is also some nicotine in it and, of course, we are not allowed in Estonia today. This bottle usually costs 15 euros. (Shows a large bottle.) And it's for cross-use, in the beer industry, perfumery, and elsewhere. This bottle costs 15 euros. From 1 July 2018, we have taxed this 2000 percent excise duty, so this bottle should cost EUR 255, although it is paying us EUR 15 today. And this little bottle here costs nine euros. We have, figuratively speaking, created a black market. The black market consists of two components. Another main reason for this is the ban on flavourings, but of course already within the framework of draft law 9. We have created an extremely interesting situation by banning, overregulation. We have made a device for adults, which is e-cigarette, attractive for young people. Young people who were not addicted to nicotine could not understand why older people simply smoke. Today, however, it is a symbol of rebellion. Each school has a so-called web mafia, where some minors sell to other minors the taste, strength and price of liquid they want. Evil languages say that buying this liquid from the Polish wholesale warehouse for the black market is several times cheaper than buying it for official, legal e-cigarette shops. We've made and unleashed some kind of monster in front of a thing. This was also clear on 1 July 2018, when we decided to do so here. And no vigilante can feel responsible here because we have been presented with misleading information. In general, we can say that this is the crap of the previous composition. Today, however, we are here and we realise that we can change this situation. I'd love to have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U300	Sure! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U301	Thanks! There have been simple conversations with the officials of the Ministry of Finance, with those who might represent the puritanic direction: if something has already been twisted, let it be anything that does not kill, make it strong! Today, we are making our young people strong, artificially addicting them to nicotine, an addiction that is actually an adult. We've overreacted. The compromise, which was spoken of by the chairman of the good committee, was not born lightly. The members of the Smoke-free Estonian Support Group and our thinkers find that we must motivate people to consume lighter nicotine products. That's why we need to release this bottle, make it available to adults in a legal place, not buy it from minors in the parking lot or set foot in Latvia. Tourism is great, but we call it border trade. We had almost reached an agreement, but the puritans still said they were against. Then the so-called agreement was born. All right, so that banners get their bans, then we tax everything on the whole, but it looks like there's a lot of excise duty at 2,000 percent. Aivar Kokk spoke here about 8.2% and 5%. I'm telling you, it's 2,000 percent today, so let's draw it to at least 1,000. That didn't work either. So to say that we, the Smoke-free Estonian Support Group and our peers, would think that we do not want compromises, is wrong in every way. Good ambassadors! Last February, 13th, this information was known. On draft law 9, we tabled the same amendment on 12 June, which we also gave to draft 80. And now the Ministry of Finance says they can't calculate. They can't even calculate the rate from 2,000 to 1,000. It's a confrontation. And the claim that suddenly there's some sort of clarification in the heads of the Ministry of Finance officials and that they're going to work isn't. I repeat that officials are good and that the more universal puritan officials and their families could work on the same post for the rest of their lives, and in their honor, gold-plated statues could be made in front of the ministries everywhere, but I think that we, the ambassadors, are free in our decisions. Therefore, I ask for support for an amendment that received two votes in the Commission, because I do not believe in these arguments. What's in hand, it's in hand. Sparrow on the roof is a sparrow on the roof. I would like to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U302	Thank you. Madis Milling, please, call!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U303	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps,'maybe certainly' is a good expression for many colleagues in this Chamber, it seems that the issue of alternative tobacco products is some sort of narrow freak group thing. Why do we still have to do this? Actually, it's a lot wider. Even today, the use of alternative tobacco products has been made more expensive and complicated than the smoking of conventional cigarettes. As I said, this topic is very broad and I will certainly not be able to stop on every aspect, but I will bring a couple of comparisons or an imaginary parallel, which I have mentioned some time ago in this talk board. It is the same excise that has been applied to base fluids, i.e. nicotine-free liquids. In this respect, I would like to add a graphic parallel that, in this case, alcohol duty should also be levied on non-alcoholic beer and non-alcoholic cider, since they are alcohol-like products. Or even banning the same flavor. In that case, would it not be wise to ban champagne, wine and liqueur and sell only green vodka at the store? This would be a similar fight to be fought against liquid flavourings in e-cigarettes. But that's not what I want to stop for. I urge you to think about how not to support consumers of conventional cigarettes, how not to make it more complicated and more expensive than it is today, because there are a number of alternative and significantly more harmful methods of damaging your health than conventional smoking. None of them are good, but the question is, what is less harmful to health? I also call on you all to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U304	Aivar Kokk also wishes to participate in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U305	Thank you. In the case of the two previous speakers, I understand that they have both had concerns that the transition from smoking to non-smoking has been a goal for a long time. But as chairman of the committee, I can promise that if there is no compromise from the Ministry of Finance in January, what I mentioned earlier, that a single excise duty of 10 cents will be imposed on all nicotine-containing liquids, then we will take up this issue in the Commission. We had this issue up in the Commission during the debate on this draft, and we made that agreement there. If you do not come up with this proposal, you can both come in February and ask where the bill is, and we can "knock," fight and argue with the Commission. But let us be honest, for all the drafts, it is also important that we look at excise duties and everything else, so that they are reasonable. It is not possible to start checking as you yourself have shown these larger and smaller ampoules of how much they contain or do not contain nicotine. We will set a rate that will not create border trade. And these ampoules are today, I understand, the manufacturers also have that there wouldn't be any of that crap. It would also be safer for your health. So I can make this promise here today, and at the beginning of next year, this hall will certainly be able to vote on the amendment to the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U306	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations. So let us move to the amendments. There are three amendments. We have the first amendment from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and this has, of course, been fully taken into account by the lead committee. The second amendment is also from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which has also been fully taken into account by the commission. A third amendment has been tabled by a group of members of the Riigikogu: Tarmo Kruusimäe, Üllar Saaremäe, Madis Milling, Heiki Hepner, Marko Šorin, Kalle Grünthal, Signe Riisalo, Urmas Espenberg, Urmas Reitelmann, Aadu Must, Katri Raik and Eerik-Niles Kross. The Steering Committee has decided not to do so. [[???Keegi saalist: 'Paluks hääletada!'???]] All right, the authors of the amendment ask for this point to be voted on, and they have every right to do so. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, please pay attention! I shall put to the vote the amendment to the draft 80 by the members of the Riigikogu, which reads as follows: 'Add to the new paragraph 1 of the bill after paragraph 17 (as originally numbered) and formulate it as follows: 'paragraph 56 (5) is amended and worded as follows: '(5) The rate of excise duty on tobacco fluid containing nicotine is 0,008 EUR per milligrams of nicotine. ' 'That's a suggestion. Please take a stand and vote. The vote is closed. 28 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of this proposal, with 33 members of the Riigikogu against. The amendment was not supported. However, we also have the fourth amendment, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft 80 and the second reading is to be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U307	We will go to the next item on the agenda: First reading of the draft law 105 on the amendment of the sports law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. For the presentation of the first reading, please address Tõnis Lukas, Minister of Culture of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U308	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The field of sport is regulated by the Estonian Sports Act, but changes in society affect this area as well. And in the light of recent developments, a package of amendments has been developed for some time now so ready that the government dared to bring it before the Riigikogu. The amendments concern the following subjects: firstly, the principles of scholarship and grant award to athletes, secondly, the database of sports results, thirdly, the disclosure of sports results, fourthly, the manipulation of sports competitions and the fight against prohibited substances. The award of a scholarship and support for athletes has long been discussed at the general level. Confusions with this have also caused conflicts that have been resolved between the Tax and Customs Board and clubs, and sometimes sub-departments and clubs. The main subject matter of conflicts has been the false or purposeless use of scholarships. Our aim should be to provide guarantees for athletes so that they can be rewarded for their activities if they are professional athletes. They should also have social guarantees. Scholarships are often not enough remuneration, but what is fundamental: the scholarship does not involve all the rights and social guarantees provided by labour law. The draft provides for an annual limit for the payment of scholarships related to sport activities, which is up to 12 times the minimum monthly salary. It would now be EUR 6480. If the threshold currently agreed between employers and employees enters into force, it will be EUR 7008 per year. An analysis by the Tax and Customs Board has shown that just under 200 athletes received a scholarship above the above threshold. Fat blood is caused by the fact that sometimes the scholarship volume has been very high. It is clear to everyone that scholarships should be proactive in supporting someone's development, promoting studies or activities. Basically, they could be meant for young athletes. At the same time, this principle has actually been twisted and used by scholarships, essentially to pay top salaries to professional athletes. This has often offended people's sense of justice and led the tax administration to argue with clubs. The current objectives and principles for awarding a scholarship under the Income Tax Act remain in force. The amendment organises the current arrangements for the payment of scholarships. In addition, we say, in the same year, when the scholarship has been paid to an athlete, it is possible to switch to pay, pay. So it is possible that six months have been paid a scholarship and then followed by a contract of employment. But it is not possible to pay an athlete's salary on the basis of a contract of employment at the same time. The Labour Code is subject to the following changes concerning athletes. Since this is a specific activity, it is not possible to deal with night work and overtime work in the same way as in other areas. An athlete is an independent contractor who is competent to regulate his/her own working time, with the club and coach, of course. But yes, it does not comply with the so-called ordinary labour law provisions. Secondly, in the case of athletes, it is possible to extend fixed-term employment contracts from one year to five years. You know that ordinary workers have the possibility to extend a fixed-term contract twice, and then this contract will automatically become a normal contract of employment. In the case of athletes, a fixed-term contract can be made for up to five years or fixed-term contracts can be extended for up to five years. Now, the new thing we would create under this bill is the athlete's grant, which is such an intermediate species. Athletes benefit can be paid to an athlete if he or she also has a contract of employment with the club. The amount of the contract of employment must be at least equal to the minimum monthly remuneration in order for an athlete to be entitled to an athlete's allowance. This means that the amount of the contract of employment must be EUR 584 from the following year and may include an athlete's allowance, which may be up to a minimum of 2 per month, i.e. the annual maximum amount of the athlete's allowance may be EUR 14016 in the following year. The specific nature of the sports grant is that it is exempt from tax. So, in fact, it gives the same benefits as a contract of employment, but it is also tax-free. This is then a response to sport as a specific area of life. This has been discussed for a long time and this specific solution has now been approved both in the sports circles and in the tax administration and the Ministry of Finance. The rate of remuneration at the same time as payment of the athlete's allowance may be no matter how high, but may not be lower than the monthly minimum rate. Thus, the salary ceiling for professional athletes is not prescribed, and to comply with the limits and to implement the provisions of the law, information on scholarships and grants must be entered in the sports register on an ongoing basis. The second block is the creation of a database of sports results as a sub-data collection of the composition of the Estonian sports register. All the sports results achieved in the Estonian and international title fights would go there. The results of three athletes who show a better result in the competitions will be collected, the competition for recreational sport and exercise will not be included in the register. So the goal is that these results can then be processed, used, in the future they will be available, regardless of the time and request of the participant. Here we go to the following point: disclosure of sports results. In the Sport Act, we would add a provision according to which, in certain cases, sports results may be processed without the consent of the data subject. We have had disputes that, on the basis of data protection principles or the principles of personal data protection, one or more participants in competitions have requested or wished to withdraw their sports result from the public register, not publish it. And it's always been before the competition to sign contracts. Sometimes it doesn't go so much ceremonially, sometimes you just register and in a small letter you sign that you agree to disclose the results, or not, but in any case it's an additional procedural act. We believe that sports results are part of the social information circle and the functioning of society. In the case of sports associations included in the competition calendar, organised competitions of sports federations, it should be possible to publish all the results and not require the consent of the athletes. And finally, the point of manipulating sports competitions and fighting against the use of banned substances. Here's a new provision. The notification of manipulation may relate to sensitive information or at least to a delicate situation if the notifier does not want his or her identity to be known to the public. To this end, a special contact point will be created in the future, where manipulation of sports results will be announced, i.e. the whistle will be blown if you want. The rights of this contact point are likely to be acquired by the Estonian Antidoping and Sports Ethics Foundation established by the Estonian Olympic Committee. The activities of this item are financed from the budget of the Ministry of Culture. The area of manipulation of sports results also includes the use of prohibited substances or prohibited practices, the manipulation of results. It is specified that doping is not just about the medicine, which until now was the main substance of the doping concept. Other procedures affecting the health of an athlete may also be used as doping. The Penal Code amends the specific penalty rates, but the aim is still to protect the athlete. If, for any reason, an athlete has used prohibited techniques to change his or her performance, manipulate his or her punishments will still be banned from competition and such things. If he has acted alone, his activities will not be further criminalised, but he will be protected by the fact that everything that happens around him, his background forces, the coach's activities, possible medical staff's activities, is under additional surveillance. If it involves tilting an athlete to use doping or the determination of a substance or method considered to be doping, or the transfer or use of doping agents by a medical professional, it shall be punishable in the future by a financial penalty or by a term of imprisonment of up to two years. In the meantime, the possible penalty rate for such groups of activities was limited to one year imprisonment. In the case of a court settlement concluded a few weeks ago, the penalty was imposed on parole for one year, which is the so-called ceiling. On parole or not, that's a court decision. Now, for decisions of this nature, in principle, the maximum penalty will rise, it will be two years. However, when it comes to tilting a minor into using or assisting doping, or to organised crime, i.e. group activities in the possession or transport of doping substances, a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to five years may be penalised in the future. We hope that all the measures that are planned to amend the law on sport will help sport to clean up and protect the athlete so that it does not become so negative around him, the people who will destroy him. Hopefully, sport will change on all of this and in the future will be a model for young people, not for something reprehensible. Those points that I pointed out would be basic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U309	Thanks to the waitress! And now, ladies and gentlemen, you have the opportunity to ask questions. First Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U310	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that this bill has finally arrived in this great hall. Above all, I speak here today on behalf of the representatives of the ball game teams. Indeed, this is a good draft, which, as a law, creates a certain degree of clarity in this whole system. However, I am asking here that we know that from time to time ball teams, represented at an internationally high level, hire players with a very strong international class. Has there been a debate that, if any ball game team participates in very high-level tournaments, could they still benefit from any special tax advantage? Something that's not in the bill? Has this been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U311	This was undoubtedly discussed because proposals were made in the coordination circle. For example, the basketball federation proposed that the level of sports grant should be up to three times the minimum wage. In the draft, it includes up to twice the minimum monthly wage, then multiplying by 12. Yeah, I'm sure it's specific, but in my opinion, the specifics have already been adequately addressed in the draft. Imagine that we are actually creating a sectoral tax haven in some ways. For example, research institutes, which also operate in conditions of high competition, cannot apply for such distinctions and grants. So you have to be very careful with that. I think this agreement is enough right now. And it's not about tax distinctions. It's still a job. You get paid, you pay taxes, the club pays taxes. At the same time, sport is encouraged, as we have just talked about. The question is whether the club has sufficient support, whether it has sufficient municipal support in some parts of the municipality pays to the clubs, whether it can rely on the owner's wallet. These things matter. We often have, yes, really the question is that the club has 10 or 20 or 100 times the size of the club itself, and then he gets the feeling he's not being respected enough in his own country. But, yeah, we can't end up twisting tax laws for that. The problem with their wallets has to be solved differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U312	Thank you. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. If you ask second, there's already a risk of repeating. I'm afraid that's the case. I, too, actually acknowledge that the quite mess that has been going on to pay scholarships and salaries to athletes will be largely eliminated thanks to the bill that we have on the table today. The changes are certainly appropriate, I think, for amateur clubs who play in the Estonian League or the Estonian-Latvian League or in the Estonian-Finnish League in such collective leagues. But obviously, the problem remains for top clubs who are seriously breastfed by larger clubs in the international arena. I am not even arguing about reaching the goal of this bill, even in the case of large clubs. But didn't you consider there might be a longer transition period? For example, that these grants or scholarships should be reduced to what is stated in this draft, within five years of the gradual introduction of this limit? It would give the clubs a chance to prepare for it. And how are scholarships paid to Finnish athletes, for example? Are you familiar with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U314	Thank you for two questions. First of all, however, the clubs have been given quite enough preparation time. The disputes with both the Rapla Club and, in principle, Kalev/Cramo, which came here a few years ago, have been quite long-term. There was more to know that the regulation would be in place. I am now going to question whether, in order to solve the potential underfunding of clubs in international competition, we must agree that all professional athletes who play, for example, in the NBA or somewhere else will receive a scholarship. Actually, we're taking a pretty big step against the clubs. We're actually creating a tax-free salary right now. I'm not going to figure out how much these salaries can be, but yes, that would mean a pretty significant change in the club budget from next year. This problem should still be solved by grants, sponsors, perhaps in some other way. As far as the transitional period is concerned, you have this draft here in the Riigikogu. It's the first reading. If the Riigikogu thinks there should be a transitional period, then in principle this is a completely debated solution. But now the government has not foreseen a transitional period, as discussions about the nature of the scholarship have been taking place for years. Now, I am very sorry, but the differences we have made for athletes in the Labour Code, I do not know in Finland. But I don't know all the differences made in Finland either. But they get paid. As far as I am concerned, it is, in principle, subject to the industrialists in such a trade union country much more clearly than we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U315	Thank you. Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U316	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, What is your personal position? If an athlete receives state support for years, but is caught with the fact or doubt of doping, should he not still pay back the grant? You can't force anyone to use doping. He's got to want it, and he's got to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U317	Thank you. Yes, in principle, it can be said that in the case of an adult person, it is relatively impossible to prove that he was using doping against his will. In general, he has expressed this will and is responsible for the full skin and hair. We've come from the fact that when a top athlete gets caught with doping, his life changes completely. This punishment is already sufficient and we have not made a proposal to recover the scholarships afterwards. We have not proposed additional penalties for an athlete that would go beyond the limits of one particular case and look out for him, so that he will no longer be able to take part in any sporting competitions at all. That's not what we put forward in the bill. I personally think he's missing some part of his honor, that's for sure. He'll be ashamed of it. If it is a bonus, for example, a prize linked to the title of an athlete of the year or so, then this penalty could actually be considered. I don't think it makes any sense for all the scholarships and all the food you eat and even for the camps at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U318	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U319	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm quoting the latest sports news. Jaak Karp, the CEO of Rapla Basketball School, writes that, given the confusion in this field that has prevailed in recent years, he appreciates the draft rather positively. Players get health insurance and the system is getting better. This part is very good. It is known that statistics were produced in the preparation of the draft, which ultimately led to the setting of thresholds. Yes, yes, that is what solves the problems of the vast majority of clubs, certainly not those who want to strive to compete with the rest of the world. I guess I'm not just talking about basketball here. The same has been pointed out by the owners of Kalev/Cramo: it is likely that if this draft becomes a law without changing it, they will close the doors. Can you tell me what would change for these big clubs compared to the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U320	Thank you. It is likely to change that if they have to fight for their sponsors every year and have a budget that is difficult to raise, and yet they are in a background system that includes ten or a hundred times the number of clubs financed, depending on how far they have reached, then there will be a feeling of powerlessness. Even if they raise their level, there's still a glass ceiling ahead because they can't call on the great Americans anymore. It could be that kind of feeling. Because their budget's gonna be hit next year by the change that I can't tell you exactly now, but I'm sure it should be increased by a few dozen percent to pay the taxes. They have also known now that it is not quite fair to pay a scholarship if, for example, EUR 7000 per six scholarships are paid, but this has been disputed. Now you won't argue about it. Now it's fixed by law, it's fixed by law. This means that in order to remain in the same volume as the same athletes, they need to find extra money. I don't know about the club, but we're gonna need more than 10,20%. And not all the costs are related to athletes, not at all to salaries. It'll give them a headache. But once again, the sports community has accepted this proposal. The football team has supported, the basketball team and the volleyball team have said nothing wrong. There's two club names here, they've been arguing with the country before. Yeah, I'm sure they're in a heavier position, but they certainly can adapt to the situation. And they're not in a heavier state than the others, just they may have had other ambitions, I can't say.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U321	Thank you. Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U322	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to ask you a little bit more about the responsibility for using doping. At present, there has been a situation that, in the individual cases where use has been identified, the coach has been put in charge. Yet, a sportsman makes his own name and advertising to the state with his own results. I'm now reading about this bill about an athlete's scholarship. It is very clear here that it is a forward-looking support paid to encourage the acquisition of knowledge or skills related to sport and the development of abilities. If a particular athlete decides not to develop his or her abilities honestly, to use any additives, would it not be appropriate to put that athlete in charge of his or her decisions and their consequences? You can't stop saying he's embarrassed. After all, he has received recognition as a bonus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U323	Thank you for your question. This sport isn't really a wonderland, so you sip it out of a bottle, and the muscles are growing and the results are coming. Muscles can grow, but often only seemingly. Top athletes work out anyway. Dimming in form for a certain time is part of the job. So they certainly don't replace their training activities by injecting or sipping them, and they still work hard. I say they get punished with public shame, their lives usually change. I don't know what percentage to say, but a lot of them cut off. The tragedy is also that when it happens at a young age, they have no alternative activity. After all, they have also paid a fee for education. So they're gonna get punished in any case. And they have certainly worked hard at some point, and doping may not have taken place all this time. Just as we sometimes forgive people, it is now our proposal to forgive, not to turn things back. A legal comparison with many other areas is likely to be possible here. Should we then start reviewing everything a person has done so far: where he has been going to a sports camp that he has paid the coach, what he has eaten. Everything will be turned back and the money will be recovered. If it is extended to other areas as well, this kind of fine can lead to a dead end, say, the system can go down any way. I would still limit myself to this, but the athletes will not be reclaiming scholarships afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U324	Thank you. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U325	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Today's modern keyword is inclusion. In the same table of comments, I found the names of four sports organisations. You have already mentioned them: the basketball alliance, the Athletic Union, the football alliance and the Tartu Sports Club. Is that the circle of sports organisations you discussed and coordinated with? For example, I did not see the position of the Estonian Olympic Committee. Didn't they think it was necessary to give their opinion, or didn't you ask for it? And secondly, what is the impact of this bill on the state budget? How much do you expect to get additional tax revenue? If I am not mistaken, you mentioned the number of athletes who do not fall within the scope of this draft. Maybe I'm wrong, but I think you said a number. How much is this additional revenue expected in the state budget? In this context, there is also a suggestion: would it not be reasonable to re-direct this revenue back to top clubs in the first few or three years to give them a "transition period"?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U326	Thank you. I may be wrong, but I'd rather think it wasn't included in the state budget as revenue. We're still talking about some limited circle of people, and you can't take it as an additional profit like that. Let's say income is not the purpose of this legislative amendment, and the explanatory memorandum doesn't say how much a specific amount has been taken into account. It's not there. The Olympic Committee connects the clubs, deals with them. The agreement is that the Olympic Committee supports the draft. Of course, he has always been involved in various information circles and drafting a bill. But the agreement is that the Olympic Committee is not an intermediary for this draft when it comes to dealing with clubs. Clubs are directly communicated so that clubs can be better involved. After all, the Ministry is responsible for this matter. The Athletic Union has expressed its opinion and has made proposals or remained neutral. In general, the draft had been sent to everyone, no objections had been raised, so there are still in favour of the sub-movements. I'm taking this opportunity to acknowledge our athletes and clubs, including those clubs that have argued against their prospects. Kalev/Cramo has given us much joy, and it certainly takes a lot of money to get to this high level. So, recognition in any case. At the same time, I would remind you that some order in the current relative disorder we had to apply for, and a compromise has been found here. Basically, as I said, we are creating a tax haven for one area of activity. We, as a government, are willing to defend it in order to allow it to be done in other areas, which may likewise ask for it, because they are operating in conditions of international competition. I mean musicians and scientists. But for the time being, this decision has been made. And that is actually a compromise. If this is noticed, I also believe that there is a willingness to change and that clubs will be able to adapt to the new situation within a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U327	Thank you. Tõnis Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U328	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I will ask again the question posed by Toomas Kivimäe. Can you give me that number? I understand that according to Statistics from the Tax and Customs Board in 2018, 80% and more than 20% of this threshold was reached. But how many persons or athletes do we have numerically over this limit? The second question is how you will then encourage these basketball clubs, football clubs and volleyball clubs, which will have to increase their budget by approximately 20% or 30% in the coming years in order to meet the requirements of the new law. Give them a few tricks on how to raise your budget. Do you have any good tricks?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U329	Thank you. According to the explanatory memorandum, those who received the scholarship above this rate are just under 200. I don't have any more data. We can try to clarify that. Ministry officials can hear me right now. They can make this memo and send it to you if there's anything else to say. But right now, I don't know exactly what to say. Again, I think the compromise is that everyone understands that the situation had to be resolved. Now some rules have been agreed and created to respect the area of professional sport. They can be taxed at a certain rate. Whether this rate is sufficient is certainly something that people feel differently about. Financing of sport in general, support from local governments, involvement of sponsors, possibly indirectly also promoting the tax on wildlife and sponsorship can be one way of giving clubs the opportunity to engage more sponsors. But these could be legal, tax-political steps. There is another special group that would include clubs that would be subject to a different tax system, in my opinion the state should not start creating.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U330	Thank you. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U331	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! This sports register and the database, and keeping it, when you read these lines, you will see that there are all sorts of interesting things that are going to be collected. What's the point of this whole thing? I understand that some parts need to get information about what and where there is. I can't find this place anymore, but there were even club expenses and revenues inside. This information from the company and the organisation should automatically come in from the tax administration. We have agreed not to ask the same thing twice. Is this database and the rest of the registers compatible?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U332	Thank you. I'm sure it would be normal to combine them. I assure you, I've always believed that data must be cross-use or, let's say, cross-filling. Data should only be provided once and subsequently available for use. Why are they collected? As a result, the grants and the control of good governance, which should guide the clubs, depend on them. They still have a great social responsibility. For this purpose, these data shall be collected. I'm not gonna protect every data ring here, so we're gonna have to deal with it separately. I guess I also think that sometimes data is collected too much, but this is not the place. With this, we will not change anything significantly in the sports register; it is already working. With this law, we're going to create a new sub-data set.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U333	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U334	Thank you. Minister, congratulations first. It has certainly been a great job to convince the Ministry of Finance, among other things, that this bill could reach the Riigikogu. I congratulate you on your work. But you also mentioned in your reply to Tõnis Möldr that you could also think about how to find more sponsors and wild mushrooms to support sport. One option that has been discussed for many years, but which has run into the consistent opposition of the Ministry of Finance, is the exemption of donations to cultural capital from income tax. Have you had any hope of success in this process, or for any other reason, that one day we might arrive at clear donations to cultural capital and then to sport, but also to culture in general, to receive income tax exemption?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U335	Thank you. The subject of such exemptions and tax distinctions has been a relatively sensitive issue in our friendly republic. It is currently agreed that we will be working on identifying possible preferential groups. The development of tax incentives for cultural workers or a system of social guarantees and possible changes in value added tax (VAT) is ongoing. I am now going beyond the limits of the sport issue, but cultural capital is a broader topic, and I am not going to mention all these sub-topics here right now. In short, the issue of possible differences must be summed up in such a way that in March-April it will be more or less clear what this government will go on with, with which it will not. And indeed, a tax credit for cultural sponsoring would be one of the proposals of the Ministry of Culture to move forward. To what extent, this is also a bit of a monetary policy issue, but it could certainly be done. However, if we now return to this issue, it is as if we were going in the opposite direction, but in the other direction. After all, we want to give top sport the ECOC to curate and leave cultural capital on health and public sport. But it can also be sponsored, of course, and it could also be tax-free. In short, tax exemptions could be in those areas where it helps to raise additional money and thus actually enhance the wealth of society. But thank you! This law has been developed before my time. This is the last winch we've got here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U336	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. Next, I would like to ask Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, representative of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U337	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On 14 November, a draft 105 was discussed in the Committee on Culture. The draft was introduced by Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas, adviser to the Ministry of Sport Margus Klaan and legal adviser Siiri Pelisar. I'm looking at you right now, and I assure you, I'm not going to read the protocol from the top to the bottom. Exactly what is happening today, and even more specifically, the Minister of Culture spoke in the Commission, explaining what the draft is. But if I may, I will give you a brief overview of what the members of the Committee on Culture asked for. The difference between scholarship and sports grant was asked in detail. We learned that an athlete can be paid either a scholarship or a grant, neither can be paid at the same time. Support shall be conditional upon a contract in respect of which taxes have been paid at least up to the minimum wage. The question was raised by the concept of a "self-responsibility worker'. It was explained well in detail, but I will tell you in my own words that this person is free to decide on his or her working time. In particular, it is intended to apply to individual athletes. We were also interested in whether this draft would lead to more bureaucracy regarding the establishment of a national contact point. The Minister said that the purpose of the draft is not to create more bodies, and there is no additional need for resources to be expected. We also asked if the sports registers were ready and functioning. In response, we found that there is a database and that it is now being moved around by converting it from a private database into a public database. There will be no additional costs. The involvement of stakeholders was further discussed. We learned that ten major youth sports clubs and the Estonian Olympic Committee together with 107 members have been involved. Finally, it was decided to consensually propose the completion of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U338	Thanks to the waitress! You have questions too. Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U339	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! We have several young athletes in the Junior class even become European champions and won the cup stages, with the adult class reaching out to their good results somehow disappear. What do you think the problem is? Why aren't they getting any results in adult class?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U340	Thank you, very good question! I must say that we did not discuss this in the Committee on Culture. I don't know if I have the right to just represent myself here and express my opinion. What would I say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U341	That's right. It's an interesting subject for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U342	It's such a tricky subject. As a parent, there are many different interests, and there is often pressure from parents to devote more to education. There are many different things that can be an obstacle.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U343	Thank you. Merry Aart, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U344	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I was very fond of your very emotional speech to us on the previous question. I have the impression that you have a very high level of empathy, that you have a common sense of pity, that you are concerned about the lack of movement of children. I agree with that one hundred percent. You have said that you came to the Riigikogu to protect your husband's business interests, but that is my question. Have you also thought about how you personally could do anything to solve children's mobility problems? I'm gonna ask you this completely without any cruelty. Your personal example is a fantastic base.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U345	Thank you for your question. That's a very good question. First of all, I would like to make it clear that this is not the truth of defending my husband's business interests. In fact, my goal, why I came here, is to try to do something in the interests of the movement of children and young people. This must be the first time the Riigikogu has come with such a motive. I am very pleased that you acknowledged my performance, and I really got the encouragement today that I am on the right track. And actually, not me alone, I'm not doing anything. All 101 of us here, we need to create conditions for our young people to be healthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U346	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U347	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! In the context of this draft, did you also discuss the crime that physical education teachers have referred to under the Personal Data Protection Act? Bringing out competition in sport could be like taking a new shape. As a matter of principle, it is not possible to enter the first, second and third place in the ranking table, or, if more is written, certain places are left empty, the name cannot be behind. Was this topic in the debate and, if not, what is your understanding of this issue? How, then, do we measure anything, and how do we set examples?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U348	Thank you for your question, that is also a very good question. We did not discuss this in the Commission. But if they do, I'll tell you my position again. I know that the data can always be included in the data, and I mean the sport of adult enthusiasts, whether they want to publish their data. Let me give you an example: Tartu marathon visitors make a small bird in the appropriate box before the marathon: whether or not their data is wanted to be made public.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U349	Raivo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U350	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I heard two questions to the Minister regarding the recovery of all kinds of grants and scholarships from athletes caught in the doping process. I would ask your opinion on this matter. Perhaps this has also been discussed in the Commission? Should all previous grants and scholarships be recovered?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U351	Thank you for your question. Another very good question. This was not discussed in the Commission. I would actually stick to an opinion with the Minister of Culture. At the same time, you might think that if you do so, how would it be fair to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U352	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. Now is the opportunity to open negotiations. Do the representatives of the political groups have a wish to speak? I don't think so. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 105. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 17 December at 18 December. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U353	And now we are going to the final item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on funded pensions, the Income Tax Act and the Law on the Register of Securities, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I ask Mr Andres Suti, Member of the Riigikogu, to perform on behalf of the initiators of the speaker's stand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U354	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased and honoured to speak for the second time this week in this honourable chair on the issue of the pension system. As I said on Monday: reform of the pension system is the most important or at least one of the most important choices and topics that we are discussing here. And that is why it is very important that we look at the pension system as a whole and not only focus on individual details. What is the purpose of our bill? Our draft, which we have presented together with the Social Democrats, has a very simple objective. We want to improve the well-being of both current and future pensioners. We want the pension system to be sustainable, i.e. to take into account the challenges of an ageing population. And these are very important things. I would add that it is equally important that we are also talking about intergenerational justice: current and future pensioners should be treated equally. Our draft law will improve the pension system in Estonia. It does not demolish it, but it deals with the bottlenecks that exist in the current system. No pension system is ever ready, there is always something that can be improved. I just want to remind you right now that there are a lot of international assessments that recognise the Estonian pension system as it is. There are certainly no points or elements in our draft that mean short-term benefits. Our only goal is for the system to improve. And the system will only be better in the case of an ageing population if we maintain a compulsory funded pension. We do not want to sacrifice the savings that have accumulated in the second pillar in order to fill the Treasury for a short time and to make naked pension promises as if it could increase pensions. Equally important is that we maintain the confidence and trust that has been created in 17 years using this pension system. The worst thing we can do as a country is to break trust in the eyes of citizens. It is as if the obligations that the State has ever assumed could be withdrawn at any given time. I think that the Estonian people, our voters, have never given us such a mandate. But now, more specifically, what we want to solve with our bill. There are three major bottlenecks in the current pension system. The first of these, and this is perhaps the most acute problem, concerns the rigid payout system of the second pillar. This is what we want to make freer and more flexible. The second, similarly large, deficiency is the taxation of second and third pillar payments. We want to restore this regulation in its original form, that is, what has ever been promised to humans, will continue to apply. The third objective may seem a small thing, but I think it actually has a very large weight. I believe that this problem has a very important role to play in why we have had this debate on pension issues to a large extent emotional, religious. In particular, we want to greatly improve people's information about their pension rights, such as the possibility of paying their pension. According to our draft, people will have the freedom to choose how to use the accumulated pension assets in retirement. The rigidity of payments is clearly the greatest concern that people have expressed recently. Yes, we have also talked about productivity, high fees, investment restrictions, both now and before. All of these have already been resolved at the level of legislation. They were resolved during the last Riigikogu when the best law of last year was passed. So this system has already been improved, but I think we must continue to improve it. At present, payments can only be covered by an insurance contract, and people have expressed a great deal of resentment about this. Insurance companies take too much money, so that's a legitimate concern. I think that there is also a great deal of low level of information, and that is why we propose that, in addition to the insurance contract, a person can continue to choose between a fund pension, a one-off payment or a full payment. These options could also be combined, so we actually give people freedom. Similarly, we have foreseen that, exceptionally, it will be possible to make use of the second pillar money before the retirement age, if the person has become fully unable to work, if the person has become unemployed at pre-retirement age or if the person is suffering from a serious illness and wishes to use it to treat the disease. All very human causes. A little bit about taxation. We want all third-pillar payments and second-pillar payments to be excluded from the revenue of the tax period, which are either life-long, unlimited or with a term of more than 15 years. At present, these payments are fully included in the taxable income calculation. And who's gonna lose the most because of it? People who earn average income are losing: the middle class, i.e. people whose average monthly income is between 1200 and 2100 euros. If they decide to withdraw their money, this income range will be taxed at 31%. It doesn't make sense. The money collected for retirement should be better used at retirement age. The last major change we are proposing is to give the Pension Centre the task of making it easy and understandable for a person to have an overview of the rights and choices of his or her accumulated pension. A person needs to know the size of the rights and assets collected in all pension pillars, the rate of return during different periods and the corresponding income index of the selected funds, the amount of administrative fees paid, the possibilities for disbursements and the pension projections. Perhaps one of you has tried to search for one place where you can find out what your pension rights are today and what they could be in some assumptions in 10, 15, 20 years. I've been looking, but I haven't found one place like this, and I don't think you have either. You have to search different registers, you have to combine them, you have to make your own checks in the Excel table. I don't think people should be dealing with this. The state has this ability, we give the Pension Centre a task, and let them do the job. This bill stands for current and future pensioners. This is for the Estonian economy to actually receive the best funding, as pension funds are increasingly important providers of financing for Estonian entrepreneurs. The situation has changed well compared to a period of five or ten years ago when the role of funds in the economy was much smaller. Why is this important? This is important for a very simple reason. The indexation of the first pillar depends on the jobs in Estonia, the wage growth in Estonia. If we want to create high-wage jobs, this means more investment, and if we want more investment, someone will have to finance them. And, as I said, pension funds have an important role to play in this. There has been a good-to-well-analyses of this pension market lately. Very respected institutions have issued their opinions They have all made it very clear that the Estonian pension system in the form of three pillars is a sensible solution. So let's make this system better! I very much hope that you will all have the opportunity to support one good draft, which will make the lives of the Estonian people better today, tomorrow and also in the distant future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U355	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U356	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I agree with you, this is obviously a very good bill, there is no doubt. But that's the kind of thing I'm asking. A few days ago, I learned from the Minister of Finance that it is not very important, in five or ten years' time, that people in general should not worry about it so much. On the contrary, I believe that even if expectations are below, there is no solution for not collecting. I am not asking why these drafts are opposed, but I am asking what, in your opinion, could be a positive joint part of this bill and the Act of Vandalism of the Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U357	The common ground, if you're looking for it, you'll definitely find it. Just as we discussed the government bill here, for example, on payouts when the retirement age has arrived. I mean, those ideas were in the government bill. And I also think that it is not bad to have the opportunity to use additional investment opportunities. It is true that this does not add anything new compared to the current situation. So if you take away this piece of government bill that's tearing apart the second pillar, I think we could get one nice thing together.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U358	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U359	Thank you. Mr. Sutt! My colleague asked half my question, but I still spend half my time. If the last Marika Tuus-Laul on the list asks, it's worth answering him three times. It's already known what he's asking, but maybe he'll remember it for years. My question is: when it comes to the joint part of the two drafts, how would you assess the explanatory statement on the draft government bill? Which bill does the government's explanatory statement support more? I mean, in terms of content, in terms of the horizon, in terms of impact analysis. Does it support more our bill or the government's own bill? And a reason, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U360	Mr. Ligi! I like your questions, even if you ask me. Yes, when I read the government bill and its explanatory memorandum ♪ I have read it many times, I saw that it actually supports the exercise of compulsory collection. There is no example that proves that the second pillar, as it has been for 17 years, has made Estonian pensioners poorer. So surely we can find the common ground, there is no doubt about that. And ladies and gentlemen on the coalition side have made it clear that we can discuss the matter in substance. So there's a lot of good things in the explanatory memorandum to the government bill. There's an analysis worth reading. I especially like Table 4 on page 96. It's a good table, an honest table for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U361	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U362	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you very much for presenting such a constructive draft. Jürgen and Kristen asked about the joint, but I just want to point out the difference. When, on Monday, this second and superficially similar bill was presented, the Minister of Finance stressed that we do not have the point of looking further into the future, that is speculation. We don't know anything, we don't know what to say, and we don't need to do it. Well, let's see what happens tonight. You, in your presentation, made it very clear that we cannot run the country responsibly, just with today and tomorrow in mind. We also need to think about what happens to equality between generations, how we will fulfill our obligations in the future. Which draft, in your opinion, will help to perform better the tasks set out in the Estonian Constitution: the draft introduced on Monday or the draft introduced today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U363	Riina, I have to answer you more or less the same way I answered Jürgen. The Estonian state has a duty to ensure that its people can enjoy a reasonable period of retirement. If we believe the facts, if we face the truth and know that our population is ageing, then it is clear that it is not possible to move forward without a funded pension. I might add here, should we be proud that we have an average net pension of just over 41% compared to the average net salary? I don't think we should be proud of that. And why? Because this is actually the bottom edge, the bottom end. I think our ambition should be much greater. But if we want to achieve this greater ambition if we want our pensions to be similar to those in Finland, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands compared to the average wage, we will see what these countries have done, how they have achieved it. Of course, we have 50 years of occupation, and it has rejected us a lot. But we've covered a lot since then. All these successful countries have one thing in common: they have a funded pension. The sum of these pension funds represents more than we do in terms of GDP. So let this public wealth grow and remain sustainable. We let this public wealth grow, and we don't need eyes down, never tell our children to listen, be good, help me. First, it is an uncomfortable request to the person who made it and, second, an uncomfortable answer to the children. Perhaps in simple terms, what would I like as a grandfather? It's not that time yet, but it's gonna come at some point. Would I like to be able to give my grandson a gift and maybe give him some allowance for some kind of trip or even pay for the trip, or would I like to go to my grandson's and say, "Hey, I don't have any money, can you help me?" I prefer this first option. And I believe that everyone in this room, and anyone outside the hall, prefers this first option.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U364	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U365	Thank you. Good waitress! I'll make Jürgen Ligi happy again and ask. You are talking about intergenerational justice and solidarity. In fact, what you are saying is that we are, as if, breaking down a system for the future for current young people, or future pensioners. But have you also thought that this is precisely what future pensioners' money has been taken away from yesterday and today's pensioners for years? This 4% of the social tax that has been paid into the second pillar for years has been taken from the pockets of current pensioners, by which the pension for current pensioners is lower. Where is the solidarity of generations here? And I still don't understand that grandfather. Does your granddaughter really want her pension collected at the expense of her grandfather's pocket? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U366	I'll start at the end. Maybe I wasn't making myself clear. I certainly didn't mean that my granddaughter gets paid out of my pension. I still meant that I would put so much aside myself during my working hours that I would ever be able to cheer up my grandson and support him. But the question you asked me, I've heard before. Not from you, but it's been running through different debates. And I say it's a big myth. The amount of the first pillar pension depends on the formula for indexing the pension, which in turn depends on the amount of social tax received and the price increase. The number of people who have joined the second pillar has no impact on the level of pension paid out of the first pillar. I would even say the opposite: the fact that people have joined the second pillar has enabled Estonian pension funds to invest more than 600 million in the Estonian economy, which has enabled additional jobs to be created here. And this, in turn, has meant more social tax receipts and therefore bigger pensions in the first pillar. I think it's very fair and very reasonable. But, of course, we have to stand up for the generation that didn't have the chance to collect into the second pillar in its time. I agree very much with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U367	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U368	Thank you. I don't know why Henn Põlluaas shakes his head. I think he's out of his league. But I'm going to ask you about a mathematics project that struck us at the committee when you weren't there, Minister of Finance. He claimed that, without the second pillar, pensions were 30% higher in the middle of the century. And the justification for him was that for so long the contributions to the pillar would be higher than the payments from there. Do you understand that logic? It was, well, such a clever claim that you're probably gonna shake your head too.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U369	Yeah, I wasn't at that meeting. And now that I've listened to you, I don't really understand that logic either. Maybe we need to ask the Minister of Finance exactly what he meant. But I've read the analyses and other materials on this subject, none of which have happened to me. If there's one, I'd love to get to know it. And then we can keep talking.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U370	Thank you. I hope Jürgen Ligi will continue to show us an example of how to stay still for eight hours as a pillar of salt. So please! But next, please ask a question to Annely Akkermann!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U371	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, honourable waitress, for an exciting presentation. I have voluntarily joined the pension fund, and I am perfectly satisfied because my pension account has the same amount of interest as I have paid in today, and half of that amount is 4% on the national side. And I'm not the only one in this pension fund. But I'm not gonna do a commercial here. I wanted to ask if any of the many studies that have been carried out and which you are familiar with draw some kind of difference in terms of those who have voluntarily joined and are planning to voluntarily continue and are satisfied with their second pension pillar.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U372	For example, one of Eesti Pank's analyses confirms that the financial savings of people with a second pillar are also greater in their longer document introducing impact analysis. Easy! And once again, real freedom is given to a person by the fact that he has some kind of capital accumulated. Otherwise, you're always depending on someone. So the second pillar has certainly had a positive impact on the set aside of money. Now, if I take a hundred percent of a financial person's view, if I set aside 2% myself and put it up to 4%, that's a pretty good rate of return. It's been very reasonable. Has the return been good in all the funds through history? No, it's not. But this is a completely different issue, and for me, at least to a large extent, this issue is closed by the legislative changes that have been adopted here in recent years, especially in 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U373	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U374	Good manager! Good waitress! Now let's look at section 1 (5) of your bill. What do you mean? I just did a quick calculation. If a person receives a minimum salary.• The minimum wage for the following year is 584 euros and, on average, a person is working for 46 years, he or she will collect 19342 euros at that time. But it says here that the national pension is 205 euros. If you multiply it by 10, we get about 2,000 euros: ten times the national pension is 2,000 euros and a little bit more. No one has ever collected such a small amount that they can withdraw this money at once. Why is there such a point in the bill? Do you think I understand something wrong? Then why don't you fix it and help me? Right now, it looks like there's been some kind of finger done or something else wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U375	This is one of the few points that remain of the current regime. And the reason for this is very simple. The previous paragraph also sets out the limit from which it will be possible to withdraw money at once and, at this amount, maybe this limit is not met. This is 1.3 times the average pension rate. We didn't want to make anyone worse than we do now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U376	Heljo Pikhof, please! Since he's not here, please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U377	Good manager! Good waitress! You rightly said that the Estonian state has a duty to ensure that its people, including the current pensioners, have a reasonable living. However, is the difference between these two drafts on Monday and the present Wednesday bill not that there is a question of when a reasonable living must be guaranteed? Is this to be guaranteed for today's pensioners or for the day after tomorrow? As far as I can remember, the OECD has said that both are silent here: on the one hand, today's pensioners are in a relatively lousy situation and, on the other hand, the day after tomorrow. And now the choice is whether the Monday bill will solve the concerns of today's pensioners or the concerns of your Wednesday bill the day after tomorrow. Am I misunderstood?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U378	I mean, did you get it wrong? I can't say for you. What I will say is that our draft will solve the issue of pensions for pensioners, both today and in the future. And solves why? Because we keep a very important factor there: it is the ability of pension funds to finance the Estonian economy. If the Estonian economy is well funded, if good ideas are realised, then economic growth, wages will increase and the pension of current pensioners will increase. If, in the case of your bill, it is the hope that perhaps many people will withdraw money and then they will be able to raise a one-off pension, then the question of funding will arise immediately next year after this one-off payment has come to an end. It doesn't create economic growth. Eesti Pank's analysis was quite a good figure, which showed that if 10, 20 or 30% of people withdraw and channel their money into consumption, it will increase economic growth in 2021, but if I remember correctly, the next year will be followed by a 2% recession if 30% of people withdraw money. So with this deed, you will be sawing the branch on which you are sitting, and the situation of pensioners will not improve in any way, either by today's or by tomorrow's.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U379	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U380	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I refer here to Jürgen Ligi's question about the difference between contributions and the amount to be withdrawn: more will be paid in and less will be taken out. After all, one logic might be that the people who are currently paying in are clearly more than those who are actually withdrawing pensions. It makes sense, it is not a negative sign, but it shows that pension money actually accumulates. And we're also talking about possible compound interest. The longer this time, the greater our income at one point in this fund. But what I heard was that when the Honorable Finance Minister was on the board and we tried to find out these mysterious experts, we only heard one name, and that name was Neivelt. And now I've heard you name a variety of experts, and not just people, but entire institutions. But there are dozens and dozens of people behind the institutions who have put together this expertise. Can you tell us whether, on the basis of such an analysis, the reform envisaged by the Monday draft should be carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U381	As I answered the question of my good colleague Jürgen, the explanatory memorandum to the draft government actually supports the principle of our draft that it is unreasonable to withdraw money before retirement age. As for the various experts or one expert who has found that the current system is well broken, I have not seen this analysis. I have seen the articles, I have seen the speeches, but I have not seen any documented analysis based on which Neivelt claims that everything he says is true and somehow supported by data and analysis. So in that sense, I would say that I have not actually seen any analysis to support the distribution of second pillar money.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U382	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U383	Thank you. Good waitress! You spoke here about borrowing or asking children for money, and you said that this bill will also solve the problems of future pensioners. I read the bill thoroughly, but unfortunately I did not find the opportunity to join this system, which I will be a pensioner in the future. I couldn't find a place like this. I have not joined the second pillar. How is all this going to improve my situation in the future, in case it's all as beautiful as you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U384	Thank you. Just as the pension system is never ready, this bill is in no way perfect. If there are any suggestions on how to improve it, that's great. I think that the proposal that just sounded makes a lot of sense. In fact, it might be possible to join people who have not done so so far. Let me give you a concrete example. Very many top specialists or experts who have come to work in Estonia have studied the matter. For example, a particular person, i.e. a woman from Finland, asked why she could not join the second pillar. He was born before 1983. So, in my opinion, this is one area that maybe wasn't thought through in the past, and we missed it too. Let's make it better. There's no problem. Amendments can be made freely between the first reading and the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U385	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U386	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I notice you're always saying there's some mistakes in here and they can be repaired right now. Now, here's what I'm going to read. Paragraph 1, paragraph 1, point 3: In order to receive a funded pension at retirement age, the unit-holder shall be entitled, under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Section, to conclude a pension contract with the insurer, to agree with the pension management company a fund pension... And then on comes:... or apply for... You can apply, but you can't get the money. It could still be written that there would be a possibility to make one-off or partial payments. I'd like to see the pension fund that would like to issue this money from the insurance company. Is it meant to be that the unit-holder may apply for a payout, but his money is still stuck in that pension fund or insurance? Or has it been your idea that it's still possible to get the money out of there?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U387	Still, good Aivar, thought like you just said. And I think that in your committee, we can make the draft Estonian even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U388	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U389	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The scrappers of the second pillar claim that if people are given money out of the second pillar, they will have great freedom to invest their money. At the same time, the pension investment account has the exact same limitations as the normal investment account. My question to you is: why is investing in small amounts much more expensive than using such joint investment? Since Aivar Chef goes to the remote next, maybe it'll be useful for him to know. And the second question is: are our Estonian people really such investment geniuses? After all, we would have half of Estonia full of millionaires if everyone knew exactly where to invest, which account, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U390	Thank you. At present, about 2% of the population, every fifty, are actively investing themselves. Perhaps there is more potential, but I think that in no country will all people ever become active investors. And I don't think I have to. We're not all good doctors, we're not all good farmers, we're not all good lawyers. In this sense, everyone should stick to their own grids. Now this very relevant question of how much investment alone will cost. If we take the average wage maid and take his second pillar tax, 6% of 1400, then if we round up a little bit, we get 90 euros. If this amount is to be invested on a monthly basis, for example on the securities markets in America or in many European countries, the transaction fee is between EUR 11 and EUR 25, plus an additional EUR 0.1 to 0.3%. Perhaps, in fact, a person pays 9 to 12% as transaction fees. Investing alone in small amounts is always more expensive than investing together. Otherwise, no one would set up investment funds. Anyone can deliver themselves if it's cheaper. I think practice is definitely a criterion of truth. And for me, the practice is what has happened in other countries. If someone's done something well, we'll learn from it, if someone's gone wrong, let's not make the same mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U391	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U392	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am also surprised at the way in which current and future pensioners are opposed. However, you actually explained very well that once the second pillar money has been distributed, an extraordinary pension increase can be made, but how to cover the necessary costs in all the years to come, there is no answer to that question. But I ask what else surprised me in Monday's bill: that any risks have been left ungrounded. Heljo asked about investing in people himself. Have you found any indication in the draft or explanatory memorandum that measures to improve financial literacy are being proposed to provide some kind of assistance and support to people who want to make investment decisions? What measures are envisaged to avoid fraud so that people are not simply drained of money through lucrative investment promises? How did you get the impression that it was meant to be in the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U393	Yeah, there were quite a few questions on Monday. What is human awareness? What is the risk of multiple cons? How can people be advised? If I remember correctly, the Minister also mentioned the idea of opening an information phone. I think the information phone is a reasonable thing, anyway. Even now, it would be good for people to have answers to the simple questions they have about pensions. However, I did not find a very systematic and thorough approach to this draft, which would provide assurance that certain agencies would be prepared to respond to this really big flood of questions. That's why the third block of our own bill focuses on information. Now, when I understood the minutes of the Committee on Monetary Affairs correctly, I myself was not at the meeting at the time, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance also acknowledged very serious problems in creating some kind of capacity to exchange data in an information system called the SKAIS and so on. According to these answers, they seemed to have serious difficulties in ensuring what we think the pension register should do. And if they fail to do so, there will certainly be problems with all the other issues. So let's do a reasonable good thing! We prepare properly, create capabilities at the Social Insurance Board and elsewhere where necessary. And maybe we'll get another award for the best law this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U394	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U395	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! Today, all members of the Riigikogu received a letter from one valgamadian who pointed out the problem that the pension reform proposed by the government is damaging the interests of current pensioners in the sense that a large number of 740000 people who have joined the second pension pillar and have received 4% of the social tax into the second pension pillar will withdraw this money at the best working age. Is the injustice this landman perceives economically valid? What generation actually suffers the most from the pension reform proposed by this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U396	Yes, I also read this e-mail and I think that this concern is certainly relevant and justified. If you ask me which generation gets the most damage, I think the sooner a person stops collecting, the worse it will be. And similarly, I think that quite a lot of hits are made by those who are 40+/- and have already collected something in that pillar in about 20 years of work and then decide to withdraw the money. I very much hope that those who are, let's say, 55+/, have already accumulated life experience and they understand what is reasonable and what is not reasonable, and maybe they will also tell the younger ones about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U397	Kert Kingo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U398	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You referred to one analysis earlier, I think it was Eesti Pank's analysis, which found that the second pillar had a positive impact on people's savings. I am the person who has already voluntarily joined the second pillar of the pension in 2004. When I had collected money there for three or four years, it became apparent that my account was in thousands of kroons minus. Then came the moment when the government, or state, decided to suspend its contributions for a certain period. And now my question is: do you really find, given these circumstances, that such instability has a positive effect on people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U399	After all, the decision to suspend payments was made in its own time and context. This was the time when the Estonian kroon was still in force. Since I was still working at Eesti Pank at the time, I had a very good overview of the financial situation in the banks and what is being asked in London, which is being asked about in Frankfurt, which is being asked about in Stockholm. In Copenhagen, Lars Kristiansen, a good analyst, predicted the end of the Estonian kroon. At the time, this decision was the least bad of the options and alternatives that were on the table. In fact, the state compensated for this ex post: if the application was made to continue payments, the contribution that was added was greater. Did it affect trust? I think the third pillar was actually hit the most. We saw that when economic times are difficult and it is the only savings that people had at the time, this money will be taken out. These were difficult times, but I cannot agree that trust in the pension system was broken back then. I think the risk is going to be a lot higher now if we really are going to take the second pillar down the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U400	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U401	Good manager! Good Andres! If the end of the world does not come now, by 2050 all of our Estonia will be climate-neutral. Two nuclear power plants are humping, the sea is full of high windmills, meat is not much to eat, because it is Satan, self-driving hydrogen cars are wrecking on the roads, and Lasnamäe is full of cheap Vietnamese people who are happy to do a job that we do not want to do ourselves. You say that at this time, those who join the second pillar will have a pension of EUR 1411 and EUR 1071 for those who have not joined. But let's play this game to calculate the purchasing power of this 1411 euro in this climate-neutral 2050 and to what current amount this 1411 euro corresponds to. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U402	Surely that depends well on many circumstances. These calculations were made on very simple assumptions that wage growth would be 3% and average yield growth would be 3,7% during this period. More or less this has been the case in the last 17 years. And this is, I think, this minimum level. If you ask what would be wise to do and what would increase people's purchasing power, it is actually very, very responsible and it is right to set aside further things, either in the third pillar or in some other way. We can debate what inflation will be like in the future. If we look at the period after the financial crisis, or the 2008-2009 financial crisis, we can see that inflation has not been close to 2% in the euro area. And I think it's more difficult to see inflation rise globally now, unless they just start printing money or throwing out money somewhere. So I wouldn't worry too much about the real value of money. And on the other hand, if inflation rises, the yield on bonds will also increase, the return on shares will also increase. These things are all connected. But I think it's always good to have real money in a real account, and without the second pillar, all we have to do is rely on state promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U403	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U404	Thank you. I am a little concerned that I am listening here to these various questions and answers and that there is a tendency to realise that the issue of pensions is only a matter of faith. My peasant's mind says if you don't put money away, it won't be in the future. If you put the money aside, that's what it is. And if you put money aside when you collect pension assets in such a way that there are public funds and your own resources, then it is expected that there will be more. I just looked at my position for interest and saw that in my case, the net yield of the second pillar for the last ten years is 4,3%. Maybe you can judge whether it's a lot or not. And last year's rate of return is 7.6% without doing anything. Why don't you tell me what the Commission felt: does the coalition have any interest in handling this bill or is it just politely listened to and put in a drawer?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U405	I can only comment on that feeling on the basis of protocol, because I wasn't in that room at the time. I'm sure the good chairman of the committee, Aivar, will be more specific later. But the fact is, yes, that a good colleague, Urmas Reitelmann, proposed that the draft be rejected at first reading. I do not think that this is the initiation of a substantive debate. We understand, debate and improve the draft, where there is reason to improve it. I think we really need a substantive debate. It's not in anyone's best interest if we drive over it quickly. Let's do this thing! We can make a good bill, and I believe that if we do, we have this ability.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U406	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U407	Thank you. Dear waitress, I had a problem last night. I ask because the answer may perhaps provide a solution to the many possible concerns that people have had. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to debate on pensions with Priit Sibula on ETV's First Studio and she claimed that her 66-year-old mother, who joined the second pillar, would now receive a lower pension if she had not joined the second pillar. However, the Ministry of Finance confirms in the explanatory memorandum to the Government's bill of the same substance that all those people who joined the second pillar 17 years ago and have paid contributions there will receive a higher pension regardless of their income than they would have had if they had not had the second pillar. What happened to Priit Onion's mother? Can his pension theoretically be smaller, or has something gotten mixed up in the calculation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U408	Good question! It is such a good question that it is very difficult for me to answer it in essence because I do not know the details. It would assume that there has been some sort of adjustment, what a good colleague Priit Sibula's mother's pension would have looked like if she hadn't joined the second pillar. I'm sure it depends on a lot of things. After all, this also depends, for example, on the level of risk in which the pension assets had been invested. And I don't know what year he retired. If he's 66, it's still a few years ago. After all, there have also been poor years on the financial markets, and if the pension goes down at such a time, then surely the return on the second pillar may be lower. But it's also a weak spot. I think that fund managers and, in fact, the whole financial sector must take it much more seriously that they must give people adequate advice, i.e. to carry out their due diligence. The closer a person reaches retirement age, the lower the risk level of his investment portfolio will have to be. Before pension, property should in principle be in bonds. After all, much depends on what financial assets and other assets a person still has, but in general it makes great sense that the level of risk chosen is the lowest. In that case, the loss that may come is the least. Plus the same changes we're offering in the payout system. If the fund pension option is maintained, if there is a one-off fall and there is a rise from there, then the person will, of course, take part in this increase and also in the fall. But once again, it is impossible to comment on a specific pension for a particular person if you do not know the details. And I think it may not be appropriate to autopsy a specific pension for a particular person here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U409	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U410	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! Perhaps a week ago, the results of an OECD study showed that our pensioners are in the absolute north. At the same time, the second fact is that 48% of our pensioners live below the limit of relative poverty. And it's also true that money is taken from the first pillar, but 300 million goes into the second pillar. I think we need to find the right balance here. Is it necessary to look to the future at the expense of current pensioners? Or another question. Do the other countries that develop the other pension pillar take this money out of all social taxes or are they some kind of separate tax? Or is it coming from the general budget of the country? I think this is a very important matter. We are, in fact, indirectly looking to the future at the expense of current pensioners. This balance is out of place.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U411	I do not know exactly how they finance the experiences of other countries, but there are certainly countries where this pension is financed. France is, in my opinion, one country where it is also financed by public revenue. And that has actually been the case in Estonia. You yourself indicated that the first pillar's receipts from this 20% social tax had not covered the first pillar's disbursements. I do not think that our understanding on this point is unambiguous or quite clear. The amount of the first pillar pension does not depend on how many people are in the second pillar or whether there is a second pillar overhead. This depends on the index, which in turn depends on how much social tax receipts increase and how much inflation increases. This will only be affected by funding. And once again: from a financing point of view, it is much better if we are able to grow the economy. Then we can also finance the first pillar pension. But I can see that I'm not convincing everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U412	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U413	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I don't know much about finance, and that's why I'm gonna stick to my grids and talk about logic and rhetoric. What I'm saying right now is not a reproach on you. You are correct in your wording, but in the hall I hear such interesting things all the time that there is one bill that builds something, and the other is a bill of vandalism that only breaks down, and then it follows an invitation to find a common part. I do not understand this rhetoric: how can builders and breakers find some common ground? And this destruction and vandalism is not about breaking the second pillar, but about making it voluntary. From your speech, I realized that the second pillar is so good and so beneficial for everyone. So, what's the fear that people are gonna take money out of it on a massive scale? Are people so stupid that they don't understand what's good for them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U414	Shared by breakers and builders... Now I'm trying to stick to my grids, and I'm sure you're more excited about semantics and rhetoric than I am. I just think it's always possible to look for the joint. Well, for example, if we don't break up and if we understand clearly what the starting point is where we're going to move from. I think we have a different understanding of this. And I also think that people have been misled by the fact that the second pillar has been the worst choice in their lives. Actually, it's not research or analysis. Maybe these analyses are written in too complicated a language, maybe I can't explain it in simple enough language, but let's take more time and make a system that actually works. Perhaps once again, as was said here on Monday, we need to talk about the pension system as a whole, which consists of the first pillar, the second pillar and the third pillar. The Monday debate focused very much on the second pillar than on one part of the pension system and, more importantly, on one part of the second pillar. Just in our opinion, you're analyzing this bill, including your own explanatory statement, showing that joining the second pillar has been useful to people in this 17 year period. It's just a backwards view, it's not a prognosis. It's just like documenting the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U415	Heiki Hepner, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U416	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You have already said repeatedly here that you have taken the 3% increase in average wages as the basis for your calculations. We know that the increase in average wages is a key issue when we compare the first and second pillars. If there is only the first pillar, it is particularly important. My question, however, is this. I know that one day the Reform Party promised that we would be among the five richest European countries in 15 years. It will take a few more years for us to be there, but will we be close to Finland or all the Nordic countries by 2050 with this 3% increase in wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U417	Maybe when I did that job, I developed the conservativeness of the central banker. I think this number is actually going to be bigger. And if this number is going to be bigger, then this number is going to be greater than the sum that's in the second pillar, and that yield that comes from there. So it only gets better when this number is bigger. If we want to catch up with Finland and why not go by Finland at one point, then we need to organise our public finances, our social system in such a way that we want to invest in the Estonian economy, that our own people want to invest and work in our home country, rather than looking for opportunities elsewhere. And then, I think, we'll get there. If we go another way and start changing the fundamentals of the pension system, we will move back, not forward. And we have hardly talked here about an ageing population and health expenditure. I mean, it's all gonna be more than that. The more people have been able to set aside money, the more, let's say, people as capitalists have been able to make a profit on the financial market, the better the situation as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U418	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U419	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I do find that the scrappers and builders have a lot in common. If we take one of the old buildings we're going to dismantle and the other part is going to heat up with new modern materials, we're going to enjoy this building for the next 50 years, and we're going to enjoy how much we're saving our heating costs. So there is no contradiction. But I was left with a scratch that you did not answer when my colleague, Kert Kingo, asked for the reason that if he had joined the second pillar in 2002 or 2003, in a few years, his pension account seemed to be in deficit. As a financialist, can you tell me what that reason might have been? Was investment in funds that were too risky at the time, and then there was a recession, and there was a problem? What could have been the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U420	In 2007 and 2008, the biggest fall came. And once again, as a hindsight, it can be said that if there had been more free investment rules, if the funds could have taken a share risk by buying from the bottom, the result would have been better. But in the case of pensions, we should not be looking at short-term fluctuations, unless the decline occurs at a time when the retirement age is imminent. Then you're not interested in it for obvious reasons. What, though, usually happens? People start panicking and non-professional investors decide to sell when they're at the bottom. And when the market turns on the tide, they just watch and have embraced their losses. I think it's also one of the risks that, when investing yourself, all people can't be professionals. And another fact that came out of one of the studies of Eesti Pank was that financial literacy is quite good. People understand the real value of money, understand that inflation eats it. But at the same time, people's willingness to take risks is virtually nonexistent. It is preferable to keep money in a bank account. It's understood that it doesn't earn, that real value is falling, but they don't dare take risks. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U421	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U422	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I think my colleague, Urmas, was a bit wrong. The most common enemy unites the different sides. And in the case of scrappers and builders, the common enemy is those who process detailed plans. If we now come from this point of view, what might be the position of the parties to the proceedings and their interest in both drafts be in addition to their wish to deal with it until the golden pension is reached when the golden handshake arrives? Do you know what you would like and recommend? I know what sociologists want: they want to do research right now. But what would practitioners like?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U423	Who exactly do you mean by "defendants"? What, us? [[Tarmo Kruusimäe answers from the hall.]] How? Oh, we're talking about this example of the building. Well, I don't know what the parolees want. I think that the good judge wants the houses, which are perhaps not in the best condition today, to get as well in order as reasonably possible and reasonable to do. And they won't delay making that decision, they're ready to make it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U424	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U425	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question for you. We have seen a rather strange approach both during the debate on the current draft and on Monday when dealing with this important issue for Estonia in the long term. It is not mathematical knowledge that is used to determine the finances of so many people; rather, it is a matter of religion. You know international experience very well. Certainly, Estonia is not the only country in the world where the pension system is modernised, trying to improve. Can you give examples from another country where it has also been more a matter of faith?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U426	After all, these examples also sounded here on Monday; these countries are Poland and Hungary. How much faith there was, how much there was in need, but which certainly united these two countries, was the desire to gain short-term benefits. Suddenly it was discovered that there was a pile of property, a bunch of money that people have collected over the years. Let's take advantage of this and we can improve our fiscal position and, well, do some nice things. In addition to this question of faith, I actually have a very, very serious concern about what will happen if we put short-term interests ahead of the long-term. And the examples where this has been done do not need to be searched with a large glass. Or the debt crisis in the euro area, and we will take the most extreme example of this, Greece. Why did they go where he went? It was very close to the high level of spending on pensions and everything else. To this end, it was possible to borrow, as the cost of borrowing was getting smaller and smaller. I still remember that in the early weeks of this crisis, a demonstration in Greece was shown on television. The things that started to happen from there were still unknown to everyone. Only a relatively few things had happened. If I remember correctly, one of the teachers, who was also at the demonstration, was asked what you were protesting against or on behalf of, and he said that the state cannot reduce my pension, I am entitled to it, it is promised to me and it is not possible that the state will reduce it. As we know, in the six years that the Greek programme was in force, pensions were also reduced. I do not want us to ever bring the Estonian state to such a situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U427	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U428	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When I was about 14, for the first time in my life, I got more money for my birthday. It could have been about 100 rubles. But dad, you're a villain, took the money, said that the boy, you go to school in the summer, you make more, and you get a bicycle in the fall. This was, in my opinion, a screaming injustice: what do you mean?! Why can't I order my own money?! But it turns out Dad was right. I would really have spent it on nothing and I wouldn't have gotten a bicycle in the fall. But here's my question. After all, we do not know how many people are going to withdraw their pension pillar money, immediately spend it, and who will be in need of help in the future. But to what extent does this increase in the number of people in need of retirement age mean a tax increase in the future for those in employment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U429	For example, the same analysis by Eesti Pank makes it very clear that, without the second pillar, pensions are about 30% smaller, with the second pillar accounting for around 30%, and Praxis's analysis shows that even 45% of the total pension is available in the 1990s. In my opinion, it is quite clear that these voters are not satisfied with this solution and they are asking for it, in a sense, from the state rulers where my pension is. I want more! There are not many ways to fund it. Then either taxes or retirement age must be raised or immigration must be increased. After all, the population forecast shows very clearly that the relationship between pensioners and working age is getting worse. There are currently three working-age pensioners for one pensioner, just over two by 2040. It's not a long prognosis of any kind. Those children who enter the labour market in 2040 are all born. That's a pretty accurate estimate. This can only be influenced by higher mortality rates, but the average life expectancy is increasing rather than by a positive migration balance. There's not much more of that. So it certainly puts both current and future pensioners in a worse position.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U430	Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U431	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I didn't get a good answer to my first question. If we come back to those scrappers and builders, I very much support Mr Kruus' proposal that we should dismantle something and build something. And in my opinion, the basic thing that should be demolished is one word:'mandatory'. 'Consensual' is a word that, to a large extent, makes the whole system unfair. What do we have now? The 2% that we pay compulsory is actually a tax, but no one dares to call it a tax. And then they say that a good country puts its end to 4%. But a good country puts 4% of its own money on it. So there's a problem here. Okay, my time is up, but I'd be happy to ask you something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U432	I'll try to better answer the question of the possibility of a common section. I agree, Urmas Kruus had a good figure on how to find this joint. I'm going to continue to develop this image. If the house stays on the three-pillar foundation, and we volunteer one pillar, this house is likely to fall down quietly. And we have a lot of things that are mandatory. Payment of taxes is compulsory, motor insurance is compulsory, education is compulsory. We do not dispute these matters for any reason. I think we've over-mystified this lack of freedom. On the contrary, I say that if a person collects financial assets during his lifetime, he is much more free in his choices. There are very, very many of these examples. Maybe we're still in a different position, but we can't agree on everything. I don't mind people having different views, I think it's more enriching.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U433	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U434	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, There is no doubt that this is a very good bill. This is confirmed by the fact that the drafts on the shelves in the back corner of this hall have run out. Consequently, it is indeed a good draft. And that's good in the sense that the opposition has gone to the aid of the coalition. The aim of the coalition has also been to make the payout system more flexible, but the plan they are offering is not sustainable, unlike the one proposed in this draft. But my question is that there was a great deal of criticism in the process of dealing with the draft coalition that pension funds have little invested this money in the Estonian economy. At the same time, knowingly or unawarely, it has been overlooked that, in fact, pension funds have been put to their heads a lot about investing this money. A year ago, we actually made it much more flexible, including the political parties of the government coalition. Do you agree that this criticism is justified or, on the contrary, that criticism is inappropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U435	This criticism is, like, unfair. I mean, these restrictions really did exist. I think it was a very wise and good decision that these restrictions were removed. I have heard statements that very much of this money could be invested in Estonia. I don't think that's right. According to all reasonable risk dissipation and portfolio theory, it is not wise to make all money dependent on just one economy. I believe that we, as a whole, will win if we have a well-diversified portfolio, both geographically and in terms of asset classes. But every investor, every fund always has a home court, I don't know if it's an attraction or an advantage. While the order of 15 to 20% of this money has been placed in Estonia, it is a huge contribution in this global distribution of money compared to the world. I think our pension funds are doing a reasonable job. And it is also crucial that they always put the interests of the unit-holder first. At the same time, more work needs to be done and efforts made to improve general information. I am not much of a fan of regulation in detail; self-regulation sometimes does much more work. I also think that the coalition must be commended for initiating the whole debate that we have had here. Surely the present and future of the pension have become much clearer. It is now up to us to make a sensible legislative amendment so that we will not be ashamed of the current pensioners, our parents, or our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U436	Thank you, dear waitress. You ran out of questions for members of the Riigikogu, but there are still drafts on the shelf. And now there's a way to negotiate. Excuse me, first, let's hear from the co-rapporteur Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U437	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft Act amending the Savings Pensions Act, Income Tax Act and the Securities Register Act initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Social Democratic Party Group 91 before the first reading on 19 November. The members of the Riigikogu, Jürgen Ligi and Maris Lauri, introduced the draft to the committee as representatives of the initiators. The opinion of the Government of the Republic on the draft was presented to the Commission by Siiri Tõniste, Head of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Kertu Fedotov, adviser to the same department, and Tõnu Lillelaid, chief specialist. The draft aims to make the system of compulsory funded pensions more flexible and to improve people's information about their pension rights and choices. Jürgen Ligi, as the representative of the initiators of the draft, presented the purpose and content of the draft to the Commission. The biggest bottleneck of the Estonian social system is the increase in pension and health care costs that will result from the ageing of the population in the coming decades. Only a pension system based on current financing, the first pillar of the national system, cannot guarantee enough pensions in an ageing society to account for at least 40% of the average wage. The risk of poverty for Estonian pensioners living alone is already the highest in the European Union. According to the latest population forecast, the ratio of people over 65 years of age to working age (20 to 64 years of age) is projected to deteriorate from the current ratio of 1 to 3 by 2040 to a ratio of 1 to 2.1. This demographic trend also determines economic policy choices. Without compulsory funded pension, the current average wage/average pension ratio must be maintained by significantly increasing the social tax or accepting a lower pension, but covering the risk of poverty, or by significantly increasing the retirement age or by significantly increasing immigration. Maris Lauri spoke about the obligations of the registrar arising under the draft to publish, in an easily accessible and comprehensible manner, the following personal information: the amount of rights and financial assets collected in all pension pillars, the amounts and return paid into the pension system, the comparison of short- and long-term and total yield with market indices corresponding to the risk level of the selected fund, the administrative fees paid, the external investment opportunities and costs of mandatory pension funds, the payout options and the pension forecast. Siiri Tõniste explained that the Government of the Republic supports the objective of flexibility pursued by the draft, but wishes to move further and allow even more for pension collectors. It was therefore decided not to support the draft and to submit the draft in accordance with the coalition agreement to the Riigikogu for discussion. Kertu Fedotov added that this draft is technically not applicable, as the Pension Centre is not the owner of all the data intended to be published in the draft. For example, information about the first pension pillar is available at the Social Insurance Board, but information about the third pension pillar is currently not generated in any way by the Pension Centre system. For a long time, the state has had a plan to create a comprehensive view platform and the new social protection information system SKIAS2 could be the programme in which to build it. Mr Lauri referred to the proposal in the draft that the Centre should be given the task and be able to develop it. It doesn't have to happen right now. Siiri Tõniste explained that at the beginning of this year, the Social Insurance Board has a project manager who is developing the SKIAIS2 pension module. When logging in to eesti.ee account, everyone can view the data of their first pension pillar, even though it is poorly presented to the viewer. Next year's plan is to develop a personal view more user-friendly as soon as possible. The wish is to have a view of the first, second and third pension pillars side by side. Jürgen Ligi was interested that if the draft amending the law on funded pensions initiated by the Government of the Republic lacks regulation of the investment account within the pension pillar, what should be added in this regard and what will happen if it does not exist. Siiri Tõniste replied that further work and discussions on the investment account were needed. Payment service professionals have been met to find out what the pension register is and what the bank is responsible for, how to monitor investments and how to withdraw money from the second pension pillar. All of this must apply to the investment account. The Commission took the following decisions: Firstly, to propose that Aivar Kokk be appointed rapporteur by the Commission and put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 4 December. It was a consensual proposal. Urmas Reitelmann proposed that the Assembly reject the draft at first reading and the Commission, by 6 votes: 5, supported it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U438	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Ow, it is. I'm so sorry! Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U439	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I would like to make a distinction between the two drafts. I'm the one who doesn't have another pension pillar. If something happens, well, it's slippery in winter, and I might think that I want a second pillar, I want to join it, do I have that option under this bill? Will I have the pleasure of joining the second pillar if I have such a desire?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U440	Thank you for a very good question. There is no such possibility in the current form of the draft. And when the previous speakers mentioned here all the time that good improvements were made last year, I have to say that these good improvements were made by the previous coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U441	Thank you. There really are no more questions now. I'm opening negotiations. Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U442	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! When we introduced the retirement pension on the MDGs, we were based on the fact that the state pension, i.e. the current one, will soon dry up by about a third due to the lack of taxpayers. So a person does not just live away from it, even though he or she may have raised his or her salary or retirement age. The population is ageing and, on the basis of current knowledge, in a few decades, the ratio of workers to pensioners will fall from the current 2 to 1.3. But that ratio could be worse. Good fellows! The dismantling of the second pillar of pension is the toughest decision of this autumn. This increases inequality and creates poverty. The question arises as to which country we want to live in. The options include poorer pensioners, large tax increases or excessive labour immigration. Without compulsory funded pension, reducing the risk of poverty is not possible at retirement age. On the contrary, it's increasing. Afraid that in the future, it will be the young families who will be the biggest scapegoats with the stupidities of today. They are the ones who need to raise children as well as carry an increasing burden to support the state. But somewhere, there's a tolerance limit for them. We stand at a crossroads whether to improve the pension system by maintaining a compulsory funded pension so that we will be on a stick with the Netherlands, Finland and Sweden in the future, or by making Hungary and Poland, where the system started to be demolished and fortified by populist governments themselves. The expectation that the future smaller generation will pay for the previous larger generation's pension has failed. This has been understood by almost all European countries, which have developed their own schemes, where the personal funded pension of an ongoing and compulsory voluntary employer is complementary. In the Estonian pension system, the share of the collection is clearly small compared to that of the developed countries, and instead of breaking the second pillar, additional roads should be found to set aside more money for retirement. An example is the draft employer's pension submitted by the Social Democrats to the Riigikogu. The aim of the Social Democrats is to make the funded pension system so flexible and attractive that as few of us as possible would be tempted to spread the collected money before the retirement age. I would also like to bring up some very specific proposals from the Socialists and Reform Party, which are now in the form of a draft law. The second pillar payments at retirement age must be subject to income tax exemption, which is then in addition to the current EUR 500 income tax exemption per month. In the event of permanent incapacity for work or serious health problems, a person must be able to withdraw from the second pillar at the same time or to start receiving pension payments before the retirement age. When a person has reached retirement age, the upper limit of the amount that he or she receives at the same time should not apply. Currently, this amount is 10 times the national pension rate, i.e. 2052 euros. Pension funds should be obliged to inform the person about the placement of his or her money, the accumulated amount, the return on investment, so that informed cooperation between the investor and the pension funds takes place. To consider many other things, such as the continued reduction of pension fund management fees, the possibility for the pension collector to contribute to the second pillar 3 to 4% of the salary if he has a desire and income to do so, could also be discussed how to increase pension balances of retirement age even if he is already paid. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U443	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U444	We Social Democrats support the welfare of current and future pensioners, solidarity between generations and more sustainable financing of the Estonian pension system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U445	Thank you. Maris Lauri, please, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U446	Ladies and gentlemen, Freedom is a great thing, but with freedom there is always responsibility for others as well as for yourself, responsibility for what you have done. Sadly, a person still tends to think in the short term, with long - term goals often forgotten. There are challenges and temptations in life that sometimes get rid of responsibility. And this is a place to help. It was already mentioned here today that we are obliging young people to study. And even though sometimes it may seem awfully disgusting, we still support it. We don't think we can go on without education. We force our children to study, sometimes we force ourselves to study. We know it's for the future. The same is true for the future in the pursuit of saving. Unfortunately, a person does not always manage to invest himself. We know that the proportion of people who can do this in Estonia and in the rest of the world is actually modest. Today, too, it was said that investing itself is often much more costly and that the losses are greater. Those who are braver have the third pillar. Those who are not so capable should be limited to the second pillar. It's their own chance. Our draft resolves these problems, which we consider to be the most acute in the current system. We want to increase the flexibility of disbursements by adding the possibility of an earlier payment in certain limited cases. Long-term unemployed people, people with disabilities, people with a very serious illness, who could be paid out in part or in full. It was also important that we include the obligation to create a universal information system so that people can have information about their pension rights in the first, second and third pillars. On this basis, they would be able to assess the future size of their pension on precisely the basis of the amount already collected. You can't get that information right now. The government didn't support our bill. The objections were ridiculous. It is ridiculous to say that the biggest problem is that the information is in the wrong place, that there are no necessary data sources at the Pension Centre. Hey, what's stopping this link from creating? Nothing! Exactly the same problems would be faced with the SKIAS2, where we all know that this system is not working properly, and it will probably take God knows how long to complete it. The fact that the government bill goes further is also two-faced. Farther away, he breaks the second pillar, or zeros out the important aspect of the need for compulsory collection. But there are quite a few places in our bill where we actually go further, both in terms of information and in terms of the possibility of withdrawing money, while preserving the second pillar. And as with any bill, everyone here has the opportunity to add additions to the bill. I must also say that unfortunately there was no debate in the Commission. The coalition parties didn't ask about our bill, and they didn't ask about their bill. Unfortunately, the discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs have become one where the coalition no longer participates. So I don't know why they're even at the meetings, so sometimes I get the question. But that's it. I hope that in this Chamber there is the courage to think, the courage to cross the borders of the opposition coalition, and sometimes to be honest with yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-04_U447	Thank you. There is no further wish for negotiations, so the negotiations are closed. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 91 at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 91 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 39 against, with no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Today's trial is over. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 20:37 p.m.
