ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Question Time has begun and it starts, as usual, with a check-in. Requesting presence check! There are 27 ambassadors. Today's Question Time is attended by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva and Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser. There are ten questions and questions in total, and I can only allow one additional question for everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U2	The first question is asked by Maris Lauri, answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U3	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! It is known that different policy objectives can be achieved by using different policies. Different methods can also be used to achieve social policy objectives. I'm afraid there's one thing I don't understand. Suddenly you're helping me get through this barrier. What was the social policy objective when your government decided to tax the income of mothers going into labor higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U4	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! Of course, I always try to help when a member of the Riigikogu asks, and I will also help you understand this new parental benefit system better. You asked what the main objective was. Above all, we were based on a sincere desire to make the system more flexible. This was one of the primary goals. The second was that if we were to have in mind the aim that, of course, fathers too, but first and foremost mothers could more easily return to the labour market if they wanted to, then it would not be the case that we punish them for it. They want to go back to work, want to earn a salary, but they'll be told we'll take away the parental benefit. That has not really been our wish. The current coalition has wanted mothers and, of course, fathers to be able to return to the labour market without losing parental benefits. If we take the status of 1 March of last year, then it is the case that if we return to the labour market and the salary is up to EUR 1659 and 90 cents, the parental benefit will not be lost. The third very fundamental change was that the mother and father could be at home together during this parental benefit period or holiday and that period has now been extended to two months. Of course, we also wanted to extend the so-called paternity leave, and this period will soon be three times longer. Instead of ten days, it will be 30 days from mid-2020. These are some of the main objectives of changing this system.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U5	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U6	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Your answer was not an answer to my question. I asked about taxation for those on maternity leave who receive a large amount of money at the same time and, as a result, fall into a higher tax category. What is more, I am extending this question: the same thing now happens to people who are being laid off, too, to them in a higher tax category. What is its purpose? To insult, mock or wish for something else, I don't know what? I cannot understand why such a thing is done to people who should actually be supported, but instead the tax rate is punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U7	Good questioner! Thank you for clarifying your question. I'm sure I'm trying to help you figure this out to ease this mess. It's not bad at all if we can work together like this. I understand that you are primarily talking about maternity benefit, which is paid out at the same time, and you want to know why it is that, when it happens towards the end of the year, the new very fundamental and otherwise positive reform of the tax-free minimum will require the parent to pay extra. I will be honest with you that this problem needs to be resolved more quickly than by 2022. And the solution should be for us to be able to make these payments in instalments, not at the same time, but, for example, on a monthly basis. And, as far as I know, both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs are making an effort to find this solution before 2022. I, too, have asked them to find this solution sooner. So there's room for improvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U8	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Mothers receiving parental benefit at the end of the year pay back this income tax unfairly, and this is really not a problem that should only be resolved by 2022. I am asking very clearly: in the light of the fact that this problem has become apparent this weekend and has been very prominent in the press, there is already a draft on the table of the government, and can it be dealt with as a matter of urgency?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U10	Thank you. As I said in reply to the previous question, I think Maris Lauri raised the question very rightly, and I will also answer you that this is certainly a provision that needs to be corrected. And both ministries are trying to find a solution right now. If you ask whether it will be on the government table tomorrow or tonight, I will say that it will be when the best possible solution to this question has been found if it can be paid in instalments. What I want to say is that I also think it is very important that, 32 days before the elections or two days before the elections, we do not talk about half-sisters. It's not like in mathematics, if there are two additions and one of them is known, no matter how big the other one is, we know right now what the sum is. You gave an example of the end of 2018 that was dealt with by the press. But we have to take into account that there is a second addition, and this second addition is due to the present, 2019. And there is no reason to believe that young people will only count on their incomes that they received in 2018 and will not consider what will happen in 2019. We still have to look at the whole thing, and I think the important aspect is that we want to provide this certainty as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U12	The next issue relates to sanctions against human rights offenders. Asks Andres Herkel, answers Foreign Minister Sven Mikser.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Bill Browder not only spoke about the so-called Magnitski sanctions yesterday in the European Parliament, but this issue was also acutely raised last week at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And there was the adoption of a resolution calling on countries to impose individual sanctions on persons who have suffered serious violations of human rights or who have contributed to it. Here's my question. Yes, Estonia has adopted a law on this, but what practical steps is the government planning? Are we taking the lead here and, as this call sounds, not only in the context of the Magnitski case, but more generally in the context of human rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U14	Thank you. As regards the Magnitski case, the Magnitski list, it is remembered that the current Riigikogu has supplemented the law on the obligation to leave and the ban on entry, so that it is possible to include people who have reason to suspect human rights violations in the entry ban list. It is true that this provision of the law has not been applied. On 29 March last year, however, sanctions were imposed on 49 persons who are also subject to an entry ban by the Republic of Estonia, on my proposal, i.e. the Minister of Foreign Affairs. These are, inter alia, third-country nationals involved in the circumstances of Magnitsky's death, and in this particular case Russian nationals. Of course, our preference is always to achieve unity between the European Union and other countries that share the same thinking and respect similar values, as the deterrent or oppressive effect of autonomous sanctions in Estonia may not be enough. It is certainly of significant symbolic weight, but it is not necessarily enough to change the behaviour of those we want to sanction, to whom we apply restrictive measures. We therefore certainly support the creation of a common European position. It is known that, on the basis of the Magnitski list, autonomous national sanctions have been imposed by a number of countries of the European Union, but far from all and far from the European Union as a whole. So our work is not only that, if necessary, but rather an exceptional driver rather than a rule of imposing national sanctions, but also to achieve the greatest possible pan-European consensus and, if possible, a transatlantic consensus so that these sanctions really have a considerable pressure and deterrent effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U15	Andres Herkel, a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would also point out that three members of the Riigikogu who are known not to violate human rights have been subject to sanctions by Russia and should be given a more acute response. You said that taking any steps on our part should rather be an exception. The Council of Europe's call is specifically aimed at ensuring that countries take the lead and that parliaments in turn take the lead in the countries. We have put forward an initiative here to sanction those individuals from the level of Deputy Director of the FSB who contributed to Kerch's aggression and who are currently violating the human rights of Ukrainian seafarers in Moscow. What is the position of the Government of the Republic? Do you support this initiative to further sanction the Russian Federation's generals and politicians who contributed to all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U17	Thank you. We certainly support this principle of sanctioning those guilty of, or reasonably suspected of, human rights violations. It certainly does not have to be that our activists are exceptional. Of course, Estonia is among the leaders in the demand for respect for human rights, but we understand that due to our small size, sanctions against the European Union as a whole are more effective than the steps taken by Estonia alone. So it should definitely be our preference in almost all cases. Estonia, as I said, has also applied national sanctions in the Magnitski case and we will certainly apply them in other similar cases if necessary. I visited Ukraine the day before the attack on the Kerch Strait and now the last two weeks ago. Of course, the talks with the President of Ukraine and the Minister for Foreign Affairs had one topic on how to achieve first the release and return of Ukrainian marines and vessels. We know that during the so-called trial in the Russian Federation, it was decided to extend the deadline for the detention of Ukrainian seafarers. This is absolutely unacceptable. Together with the members of the European Union, we will do everything we can to achieve the release of the Marines. And, of course, if these activities do not produce satisfactory results, then the next steps must be taken. And, by the way, not only to sanction those who violate human rights, but also to put pressure on Russia to put an end to the destabilising impact of the Kerch Strait blockade on a large part of Ukraine. I also had the opportunity to make sure that Russia's actions in the Kerch Strait and the Azov Sea have actually largely paralyzed socio-economic life in the areas of Ukraine near the Azov Sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U18	The next topic will be opened by Martin Helme. The question is about the Antarctic expedition. Answers from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U19	Dear Speaker! Good Prime Minister! Here's the question. The gentlemen who flee from their incessant inner dissatisfaction with the permanence of the midlife crisis have put together another pomposal itinerary. This time they go to Antarctica and it is said to be about EUR 1 million, a little less at first. Half of this money has already been found in the private sector, but half or a little less is missing. And there is a second button next to it that the President of the Republic of Estonia plans to take part in this trip, at least at some stage. I have concerns that the Estonian taxpayer is probably not interested in sponsoring such journeys by gentlemen fleeing from internal discontent, even if this is done through the budget of the President's Office. Can you tell us more about this? It's not like the taxpayer's gonna stain it, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U20	Thank you, good questioner! Using the words of the classics: Estonia is one president at a time, and I am not the President of the Republic of Estonia. As for this expedition, yes, the private sector has come up with an Antarctic expedition plan. As far as I know, it should start in July this year and last until February next year to celebrate the 200th anniversary of coming to this part of the world. The first expedition was announced by Bellingshausen, who was born there in Saaremaa. I've also read that this expedition costs a million euros to the circa. In my opinion, the fact that we have such a private initiative, private entrepreneurs who have an interest in history and also an interest in introducing Estonia more internationally, is very positive. And I suggest you think so, too. We have recently found good discussion topics with you in several briefings. I cannot always say that we have found a common ground, but it seems to me that you too have begun to move from such a very narrow perspective to a much broader view. Today, too, one of your groupmates would like to ask about the Centre Party programme, Mr Herkel here has been interested in the Centre Party several times. So I think it's very nice and sensible if we have more of this dialogue and debate. But it hasn't been called to ask for money from the public sector so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U21	Martin Helme, the point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U22	Thank you. Yeah, well, no one can have anything for a good discussion. As long as one doesn't talk about the garden and the other about the garden hole. But if the President is still planning to be there, at any stage, we will have two delicate questions. If he goes in there and it's fully paid by the private sector, all the way to the end, is it appropriate for the president? And if he goes there and it is paid through the budget of the taxpayer's office in the Republic of Estonia, which, as I know very well, is not controlled by the government, but by the Riigikogu, is that reasonable? I do not think either solution makes sense. And, well, there's no leave for the president, but the president could still fill his time in a different way than to accompany such ex-party expeditions. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U23	Thank you, good questioner! In your question, repeat 'if' at least three times. What happens if he goes there and he doesn't go there? What we're asking these hypothetical questions here is nothing. It is clear that the President's institution in Estonia has always been honored. We will take President Ilves, President Rüütel and President Meri, they have certainly introduced Estonia to a very significant extent in the international arena. And I would say that it is not only an international aspect that matters; it is also important, in my opinion, to find national coherence and confidence. I recall the time before joining the European Union when President Rüütel contributed very much to Estonia's accession to the European Union. This was supposed to give the people of Estonia a positive signal and confidence. I see no problem if the President wants to be more active in the international arena. The current President has, in my opinion, done this work well. We are taking even the UN Security Council's non-permanent membership campaign and the search for support, he has done this work very actively, in cooperation with the Foreign Minister and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So don't be mad, Mr. Martin Helme! I believe we can overcome these hypothetical questions and move on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U24	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Whether the penguin community is an international community is a matter of its own. But we didn't quite know what your attitude was. If the government is called upon to support the President's participation in this tour, does the government take a supportive position? If not even turned and the resources of the so-called President's Office were to be found in order for the President to sail under a white sail somewhere, what is your attitude and that of the entire government? Is this in line with the President's mandate or is it not? If this happens with the support of the private sector, is it corrupt and can we see here any elements of power trading? This is not just an easy question to answer if a person loves to travel. I do not, but it is not nice if the President of the Republic of Estonia thinks he has the right to travel in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U26	Thank you, good questioner. I have not heard that, in the case of this private initiative, there is something at stake about the President's desire to start dealing with influence, that there is some kind of interest involved in this Antarctic trip. It certainly isn't. I said this expedition should last from July this year to February next year. And I answered the question of one of your group members that so far no requests for financing have been received by the Government of the Republic, although certainly the project leaders, like everyone else, have the right to submit such requests. I am absolutely convinced that if such requests come, they must be discussed after the Riigikogu elections. It's like you've given up already, if you ask me what happens after 3 March. I really do not know who will win the Riigikogu elections. I work for the victory, I ask for the support of the people, but how it goes is decided by Estonia's highest authority, which is Estonian people, Estonian people, according to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U27	My colleague, Liina Kersna, asks about public procurement in the administration, says Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U28	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, Yesterday, thanks to the attentive work of Postimees journalist Aivar Pau, the public learned that the state had announced a purchase of EUR 8 million for the development of the notorious SKIAIS2. It should be recalled that just three quarters of years ago, the State signed an agreement of EUR 10 million to develop the same system. For me, as a member of the Social Affairs Committee, yesterday's news came as a surprise. Did this news come as a surprise to you as a minister that such a large procurement was announced at the beginning of 2019? And why was the public not informed of this procurement this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U29	Thank you. First of all, I have such a small suggestion that the subject of the SKIAIS2 we could talk about in the future as the promotion of the social system information system, a new IT development. The linking of this to past, not very successful procurement could end. The question was, was it a surprise for me to see if there was anything unexpected here? No, it's not unexpected or surprising. Such a plan for a new framework agreement was immediately planned. And it is not a contract for specific works to this extent, it is a framework agreement in both cases. It shall be agreed on the conditions under which further work may be carried out and the maximum capacity. A separate contract must be concluded for each particular job, a separate request for money must be made, and the whole part of the work will be specified. In addition to the initial framework agreement on EUR 10 million that was concluded at the beginning of last year, the requirements have since been clarified and proposals have been made to clarify the procurement. We want to use the European Union's money and it has also been taken into account in this second procurement. And every time you go into concrete work, you have to specify the amounts, the content of the work, and where we want to go. And let it be said that, last year, the first framework procurement procedure has introduced works amounting to EUR 710000. How the work is distributed between one framework procurement or another, this is clear during the drafting of the contracts and the execution of the works. As has been said in previous discussions in this Chamber, the state should consider whether not to involve other developers and put more money into ordering these works so that it is possible to switch to the new system. This is what the country has been doing today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U30	Liina Kersna, an additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U31	In yesterday's "Actual Camera', the Director of the Social Insurance Board said that these new developments are needed in particular to implement changes to the parental benefit and pension system. Indeed, I remember that in the Committee on Social Affairs we have dealt with both drafts. And the explanatory notes did indeed say that it also requires the development of the SKAIS2. Both drafts were worth 5.7 million euros in terms of development over three years. How much do you think this development of the SKIAIS2 will ultimately cost the country? Let it be said that, when this 10 million euro framework agreement was made, you also claimed that this should be all of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U32	Thank you. I hope I have not said anything like that that one system will be completed and no further development will be done. Just as the Tax and Customs Board, for example, is putting forward new developments and improving its system, and we are very happy that it is possible to do new developments there, the social system must also act in the same way. As I said, it is not certain at the moment how much work we are doing with the current developer, who has already been selected last year, and how much work we are doing with the other developer. This depends on how these work and agreements work smoothly. And not only do we need development work to implement new laws, but also to make sure that those basic parts that were not finished with the initial work are new and modern. I recall that the IT systems used in the social field date back to 2000. And we're not creating a new IT system, we're creating new services. We should have our first event service completed this autumn. This should be the first in Estonia, and this means that no longer a person will apply for any kind of support-services, but, for example, when a child is born, he or she will be offered an offer that you have the right to receive it and that, please tick if you want it or the other one. All information is received operationally directly to the person. Similarly, by the autumn of this year, the self-service portal should be completed, such as the one where the person receives all social information directly from the website. It's important anyway. These new services assume that the Estonian information systems as a whole are connected in such a way that we receive the necessary information immediately and do not need to collect information from different systems. Man doesn't have to do it many more times. It's the whole system that stays invisible to man, but what needs to be done. The only thing you could complain about is that the initial assessment that was made years ago in the planning of the SKAIS, let's say, had failed in forecasting and analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U33	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Now we talked about what further plans are, but I'd still like to come back a little bit. Last spring, the Ministry of Finance announced that their financial control department would investigate the costs incurred in previous periods. This concerned payments to Tieto, whether they are compatible with European Union and Estonian legislation. My question now is what the results of this audit were. Until the moment they were made, were they consistent or not, and was there a need to make recoveries and, if so, to what extent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U35	Thank you. It is difficult to answer this question now, because the final report has not yet reached us. But as far as I know, there shouldn't be much trouble. But I haven't seen the end result yet, so we'll have to wait with it. In addition, we are prepared that the National Audit Office will certainly review all these matters very accurately. When these audits are completed, the results will certainly reach you as well. What I should stress about this, too, is that if we get information systems that provide services to people and are appropriate for this century, they will also help the Social Insurance Board to save labour costs. We no longer need to make different calculations on square paper, figuratively speaking, but it remains automatically in the work of computers and information systems. I talked about this with the head of the SKA and he pointed out that administration costs for the workforce have fallen by about 50%, for example, when determining social benefits, by around 17% in the benefit department, by 25% in document management. This means that money saved can do other things that are necessary. So, on the one hand, the system gets better, on the other hand, we save on labour costs. We must finally reach the 21st century with the information systems of our social system. The aim is that services really help people. And once again, the framework agreement is a framework agreement. Within this framework, the amount and nature of each particular work will be agreed and the necessary resources will be requested from the state budget or from the ESF. By 2019, the ESF is planned to reach 1.8 million and by 2020 we will apply for 4 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U36	Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the agreement that there is only one additional question, I will stop addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U37	Jüri Saar inherits illegal donations, answers the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! As we have just learned, Estonia is located at a very high 18th and 19th place in the world on the basis of the 2018 corruption perception index. We've risen three places in a year. With regard to the control of political corruption, we obviously have room for growth. Prime Minister, I would like to ask: can you, as the chairman of the largest party in Estonia, point out some concrete steps that will only leave cases of illegal donations to the Centre Party in the past?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U39	Thank you. You said to ask me that I don't understand whether you're asking me or not. You're asking? Got it! I will answer you in such a way that, first of all, I would like to thank you for this platform, thanks to which the honourable Riigikogu can debate and explain this issue. I am certainly of the opinion that we have drawn a very clear line between our party on 5 November 2016. This is the date from which I have the opportunity and also the duty to perform the duties of the party chairman. We have been elected a new board, and we immediately declared that there must be no sense of corruption in the Centre Party. All the problems that have arisen in the past must be resolved. The Centre Party must not be a party that goes to court every day. And for that we have taken very concrete steps. As you know, the party has sold its office building and received 1.8 million euros for it. Today, it can be said that, in principle, all this money has gone to solve problems and wrong decisions, to cover sanctions and enforcement of judgments. The party has paid this money without any dispute, and this is a principle that I consider very important. I've read a lot about the press that there are a lot of people from criminal backgrounds in our political parties. I think that very specific and clear decisions must be made on this. The Centre Party has done this. I recall the last time Postimees published a list of those with a valid criminal record. I don't know about your party, but we threw these people out of our ranks.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U40	Jüri Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U41	Thank you. More specifically, is it possible to talk about this money in the name of the credibility of a political party about a specific amount that goes beyond EUR 200000 before the elections, so that the political will of the Centre Party to leave everything that has been before in the past can be seen very clearly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U42	Thank you. I understand that you are talking about EUR 220,000, which has been much talked about in the public domain, this is the so-called Tartu House case. This is the 2011 case. I, too, say to you today, honourable Riigikogu, in this Chamber, that we respect the judgment of the Court. The Centre Party certainly does not request any further proceedings from the Court. The party is guilty, and we will, of course, pay the EUR 220,000. As far as I know, 24500 euros have been paid so far, which means that EUR 195000 has not been paid. The party appealed to the ERJK to put the debt to a timeout, as in the current state we also have a lot of spending in connection with the approaching elections of the Riigikogu. Such timing is quite common. When it comes to a household or a family with large expenses, such a thing is sometimes asked. The ERJK did not see this opportunity, although, as far as I know, many members of the ERJK felt that it would be reasonable to allow this timing. We have therefore asked the court to assess whether or not the ICTY could have allowed such a postponement. If the court sees that there is no such option, the answer is clear: the money must be paid on a daily basis. I would say so much more on your first question, I am pleased to see you here in the Riigikogu. After all, Andres Herkel personally contributed to the good fortune of the Centre Party. He has very often raised the subject of the Centre Party here, but I have not fully understood whether he wants to come to the party or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U43	Andres Herkel, this time the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U44	Thank you. Prime Minister! Let us now leave these discussions, but it is generally a pleasure that you are trying to draw the difference between you and your predecessor. At the same time, you, as well as your combat partners, have been in the middle party's decision-making process since you have been on the board. But here's my question. What do you think about the real luxurious amount that the Central Party receives and receives from other political parties? Shouldn't it have one very clear purpose for which it can be used? Well, for example, to shape a political outlook. And do you, in principle, condemn the use of money from the state to pay off debts? What is more: if a state has a claim against a party, is it ethical to pay it off with the money it receives from the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U45	Thank you. I'll be honest with you, I'm not willing to push it off the table. I'm not pushing your interest in the Centre Party off the table, it's all been completely public. You're gonna say we're gonna call it off. If that's what you want, it's your right, but because of me, he might be up on the subject. In general, however, it is not the case that state money is received only by the Centre Party. When we look around this hall, we see that there are six good parties here, the Free Party among those who receive state support. Mr Herkel, you have been the creator and long-term chairman of this party, bearing in mind the recent history. I don't appreciate the future. Your question was whether this amount could be reduced. Only the Riigikogu can answer this, it is a budgetary decision that the Riigikogu adopts by law. This year's budget has been approved by the Riigikogu at the end of last year. So these discussions are going to be in the next composition, if that's what anyone wants. I'm sure you're free to open these discussions. For what purpose does the party use state support? In my opinion, it should be used for all its activities, including the promotion of its programme and world view. How it is done, how it is done, will be chosen by each party itself. In general, I think that, in any case, we should raise the issue that all political parties, too, have worked very hard on this in the party to ensure that members' contributions are paid. In fact, the ERJK has also pointed out that when people join the party, they will also pay the membership fee. This is also important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U46	Jaak Madison is interested in the program of the Centre Party, the Prime Minister responds.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Of course, we are interested in the Centre Party programme because it is likely to affect all Estonian people and it would be good to clarify some of the points that you have promised. Specifically, in your programme for the forthcoming elections, it says: 'We support people's fundamental rights and the freedom to live together in different family models. ' It is very euphemistically written and certainly needs some clarification for the wider public. What exactly do you understand about freedom to live together in different family models? Is it state-regulated, recognised, legalized? Please explain to us exactly what you mean by that so that we can understand it better. Is this also about same-sex marriages or partnerships that the Centre Party will approve?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U48	Thank you for this question. I don't know, I'm sorry about the Riigikogu, but I feel like I'm performing at the Central Party Council. But if you're just asking these questions, I have to answer. In this sense, I fully agree with you that the Centre Party platform is made on a very broad basis. And as I think you rightly said, it concerns all the people of Estonia. We have indeed taken the principle that no one is left behind, and all the 1.3 million who live here are our people. That is why we have also said that our goal is a just country for all. In my opinion, the key issue in the context of these elections is whether we go forward or back as a society in Estonia and whether we can provide security for our people. I've also read, I think it was a post on the social media channel of your party members, that you do not understand exactly what this means. Very briefly, this means that the Centre Party wants Estonia to be a country with a growing population again. This means strong families, which means that we will ensure confidence if the family is even planned. This means that when we talk about acquiring a home, young families are given the opportunity not to make the first contribution themselves, but the state guarantees it. I have had a great deal of sympathy from a large number of older people who say that children and grandchildren must be supported. This certainly means that the support of the first and second children must be increased, that is clear. We do not think that EUR 60 is enough; this support must be raised to EUR 100. And I am very pleased that we saw last year that half a thousand more children were born in Estonia than in the previous year.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U49	Jaak Madison, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U50	Thank you. Of course, it is a pleasure that the Prime Minister reads the posts of simple Members and hopefully learns lessons from them. We're talking family models here, not birth children. Children are known to be born in a normal family - mother and father and children. You're talking about different family models in your program. I would remind you that on the last occasion, the Centre Party almost unanimously supported the adoption of the draft law on the annulment of the Cohabitation Act, i.e. you supported the Cohabitation Act. Now, a month before the elections, it is very appropriate for all people to be informed of the position of the Centre Party. If you become Prime Minister again, if you have received a mandate from the electorate, will you support the adoption of implementing legislation on the Cohabitation Act? It would recognise same-sex couples as normal families who can adopt children. These families, as we know, do not guarantee the preservation, growth or normal development of the Estonian nation. What is the Central Party's position?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U51	Thank you very much for this question. Once again, I do not know who the next Prime Minister is, although your party chairman has already spoken about this in a specific way. You want to stress that, too. I say once again: whoever wins the election will decide the highest power in Estonia. And whoever wins the election must, if the President proposes to him, be able to find a joint section of the various political parties to form a coalition. So let's not get ahead of ourselves. But it is true that I am working to ensure that the Central Party wins the Riigikogu elections after a 16-year break. But let's still come back to the main issue, don't take the focus away! This topic is the Estonian family. We see in Estonia that we have single parents, we see that there are families with two parents in Estonia, we see that there are honeycomb families in Estonia. There is no way I am willing to classify it as having the right families in Estonia and being the wrong families or the right family models and the wrong family models. This isn't right! I am completely opposed to this position, too, if I am not mistaken, then it belongs to Martin Helme, your party partner and the chairman of the group, that a 27-year-old childless woman is a detrimental element to society. I'm totally against it! I think it's scary, and I'm gonna take that line down. Or that we can somehow classify families so that if there are a certain number of children in the family, they are the right families. I think it's very bad. If you answer your question about implementing legislation that sounded at the end of this long tirate, I am absolutely sure that this Riigikogu will not solve this issue, it will remain up to XIV.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U52	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U53	Thank you. Well, it's a shame that in such a short time, you've come across the common ground from finding a joint. But the right, the highest authority gives a mandate in the elections, but before it gives a mandate, it must be clear what it is for or against. From this sentence in the Centre Party programme it is very easy to understand that you support the official registration of same-sex couples under the name of partnership or marriage. And given the background that the Centre Party Group has previously voted against the repeal of the Cohabitation Act, given the background that your party partner, the Minister of Education, does not see a problem in homopropaganda schools and kindergartens, the voter has a legitimate concern and we also have a legitimate concern. We want to understand this very clearly. A single parent, by the way, is not a family model. Are the fundamental rights related to these different family models covered by the national recognition of same-sex cohabitation or not? A very clear answer is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U54	Thank you. When you talk about the Cohabitation Act, the decision of the Centre Party's board was that it would remain up to every ambassador to decide how he would vote. That's it. When we come back to family models, a single parent with children is, of course, a family model. I believe that we all want families to be as strong as possible, so that there are no divorces, that mothers and fathers do not leave their families, but unfortunately we see that, and that is why there are very many honeycomb families today. You said I was somehow moving away from the goal, not looking for the common ground. What I'm saying is that I think there are some ideas in your programme that have been in our program for years or decades. I don't know if you've retreated from them or not, if you say there's a lot of differences. For example, we have always stood for the direct election of the President. And I've read that you have it in one document. Whether it is today or not, I can't say. I have a feeling, Martin Helme, that we've had a pretty good discussion here. I have a request for you. We are doing everything we can to preserve the security of Estonian society! We are doing everything we can to maintain coherence and solidarity in Estonian society! Let's not freak out! That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U55	The following two issues relate to the SKIAIS2. Monika Haukanõmme's question is answered by the Minister for Social Protection. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U56	Mr President! Minister, thank you very much. We will continue the debate on the SKIAIS2 development disaster. When you started to respond to Liina Kersna, you said that you propose to separate SKIAIS2 from further developments and to keep these previous failures in history. In fact, this cannot be accepted. This proposal is not very serious. Consider: 2015 development, which was supposed to cost 7.1 million, has received EUR 25 million by today, 2019. If one development gets three times more expensive than originally planned, then we can't say we're gonna forget about the old one, we're gonna start over and we're gonna move on from here. My question is that we have actually reached the third circle with these developers and we know that there have been things that should not have happened. This is a very logical question of what is happening and who is responsible for the damage caused.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U57	Thank you. In my previous reply, I thought I described the situation quite accurately. I repeat: on the contrary, we do not have a disaster at the moment. We are working on a meaningful development of the information system so that people have the information, so that everything works and the information moves well between the systems. I dare say that this system will never be completed once and for all. It is exactly the same as the city of Tallinn, it needs to be developed further and further. As I said, for example, this year there is a plan for 2.5 million dollars to set up a self-service portal and launch the event services section. I believe that it is important for us all to have access to information, and it is important for both the person and the official, as well as the member of the Riigikogu. I'll give you an example. Tomorrow, the Riigikogu will have a draft to raise the allowance for children with disabilities. These payments are planned to be double or tripled depending on the type of disability. But what happened to the bill? While it was handed over, you were also in the Free Party Group. The bill was handed over in such a way that you had subscribed to it as a cost of 1 million, which was to come from the state budget. This could not have led to a double or triple increase in these children's benefits. This would have meant not more EUR 70, not more EUR 160, but more EUR 8. Consequently, the data was not sufficiently available to you. Now, with the help of the Ministry, the calculations have been done correctly, and this bill will be able to move forward tomorrow in the big hall. I think that such access to information throughout the social sphere is extremely important for an official, a member of the Riigikogu and a normal person. And once again, these framework procurement numbers do not mean that there are already contracts under which work is currently being carried out. It's a framework procurement.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U58	Monika Haukanõmm, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U59	Thank you. Good minister! It is, of course, very nice that you are very optimistic and that you find that this is not a disaster. The Ministry of Finance is carrying out audits, the Chancellor of Justice is doing audits, you are carrying out audits yourself, all looking at what has happened. So we can pretend everything's really good. Of course, this must go on and it must be developed; we really want to reach the social protection system of the 21st century. But my question is, have we learned from the mistakes we've made since we started this project? Clearly, the subscriber has not been well-informed and made the right decisions. So, what do you, as the minister responsible, do to deal with these risks in the future and to ensure that there are no more such mistakes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U60	Thank you. As you rightly mentioned, and I thought I said in the previous reply, the forecast that was there in preparation for the development of the previous information system in 2013 and 2014 was not adequate. There wasn't that much wisdom in this system. What have we changed? The staff of the Social Insurance Board has been changed, brought to the competent authorities, a TECHNIQUE has been created, which brings together competence in this field and deals with the development and supervision of information systems. It is normal for the various institutions to carry out audits, especially in the case of such large systems. As I said, it was clear that the activities initially planned had not succeeded. That's why things have been arranged differently now. The framework procurement of information systems has been carried out in part, and the awareness and competence of the SCA has improved so much that it is possible to understand how the service process must actually be managed and carried out. We are not working again, I repeat, on the development of the IT system, but on new services, those that actually help people. This is also necessary from the point of view of the Social Insurance Board itself. When I started working as a minister, we were in a situation where we discovered inaccuracies when we looked at the planning of the state budget, for example, on rehabilitation services and aids. In the first year, we found some 1.5 million extra euros for rehabilitation. And maybe it didn't get to the public, but over the year we found EUR 4 million for aids to ensure smooth work. If we look at these growths now, this year we have planned some EUR 13.5 million in additional money for the provision of social services, thanks to the improved functioning of the entire service system, better analysis and better money planning.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U61	Marko Pomerance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U62	Thanks! Good President! Minister, thank you very much. I refer to the executive edition of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure: the ambassador asks what he wants, and the minister answers what he wants. The question claims that the SKIAIS2 is incredible, but has anything credible been born during your busy days that people have benefited from and that especially people with special needs could win?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U63	Thank you. Exactly, all this work, including the development of the information system, is to enable people to get a better service. I've already talked about what's going to be done this year. What I mentioned briefly in the previous response is certainly important: it is precisely the organisation of services, the organisation of funding and the reduction of red tape. But we can cut red tape when we have the information systems in order when they connect. Then we can take the paperwork from there and the person gets the service much easier. Applying for a disability is easier this year: if a person had to fill out a 16-page questionnaire, then it is now on two pages. If you had to come to the office earlier to get the help card, it will now be sent home by mail. And this card isn't supposed to be the piece of cardboard they're picking up right now. We want to reach the point where it is flexible and simple from the point of view of both the service user and the service provider, as is the digital prescription system. That's how it works. So, in addition to being able to finance public services, we offer a series of support measures to local authorities and also to service providers so that they can develop their services better. Creating places for people with dementia, creating additional places for day-care intervals, we currently have planned money both for infrastructure and for the service provided by the places. At the beginning of the year, we have received signals from rehabilitation service providers that, thanks to this year's significant price increase, they are ready to offer more services. At the moment, there is no order of rehabilitation services in the Social Insurance Board, and I hope that our institutions will continue to be able to keep this pace, so that there will be no more queues. So I think that developments have been significant.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U64	Honourable Riigikogu! The time for Question Time is over. Thank you very much to the questioners. Thank you very much to the ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U65	Ladies and gentlemen, The Wednesday session of the 3rd working week of the IX plenary session will begin with the referral of drafts and enquiries. That's not what you want. Requesting presence check! 69 MPs will attend the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U66	Today's first item is the third reading of the draft Water Act 643 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups have a wish to negotiate? That's not what you want. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft, and we will prepare it properly. Is the hall ready to vote? I vote on the draft Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (643 SE). Please take a stand and vote. 75 delegates voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, with no abstentions. The draft Water Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U67	Second item on today's agenda: Third reading of the draft Act amending § 11 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations for the political groups. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I'll give you half a minute. I am voting on the draft law amending § 11 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (770 SE). Please take a stand and vote. 73 delegates voted in favour of the draft and no one voted against, with no abstentions. The draft Act amending § 11 of the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U68	Third reading of Bill 719 of the Law on the Amendment of the Proof Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Do the political groups have a wish to negotiate? It's not there. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law of Proof initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with it (719 SE). Please take a stand and vote. 76 delegates voted in favour of the draft law, no one opposed, with no abstentions. The draft law amending the act of proof initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U69	Third reading of Bill 769 of the Act amending the Insurance Activities Act and the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations for the political groups. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Half-minute call sign. I am voting on the draft law amending the Act on Insurance Activities and the Law of Obligations Act (769 SE) initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. The draft law received 74 votes in favour, no one opposed, with one abstention. The draft law amending the Act on Insurance Activities and the Law of Obligations Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U70	Today's fifth item is the report on the implementation of Culture Policy until 2020. Indrek Saare, Minister of Culture of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U71	Hello! President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! A week after Estonia's independence, on March 1, 1918, Postimees wrote: "The history of our people is short. The brief is the era in which we have been able to develop freely. [---] If we have not been able to walk with the Kutura peoples on the outside, to guide our own destiny and the fate of others, we have been able to walk in the scrutinical paths of the past decades. ' That was the introduction to my speech. The last part of my call is about numbers. My speech, in turn, will be followed by new numbers on the basis of which decisions on some other numbers will be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U72	Honourable waitress! There are several calls in the big hall at the same time. Let us focus on the speech of the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U73	It is good to know that culture makes people respond! The annual summaries have been made and are now focusing on electoral programmes. And it also focuses on numbers, because this is the world we live in. We believe that we are connected by numbers more than anything else, because we understand numbers in the same way. Let me doubt that! It is true that the cultural field has nothing to be ashamed of in terms of numbers, even the other way around. 2018 will go down as a year in which culture was probably created and seen in Estonia more than ever. And Estonian culture was seen and discussed more than ever in the world. Without pathetics, it could be said that it was a historic year. Whatever cultural field we look at, whether it was a domestic theatre or an Estonian film, our own literature or the visual arts created on this plot, there was an enormous amount of activity everywhere, and there was admirable international interest in this extremely large number. And much of what has happened will be recorded in history as something described in decades' time as new branches of our rare culture. It wasn't all art because of art. The number of people who went to the theatre and cinemas, museums and libraries exceeded the boldest expectations, which is why I can say today with calm confidence: our national culture is in an extremely good state. Why is that? I think a large part of the answer has been mentioned in that Postman quote that I quoted at the beginning. The people of our country have an inner, not outer, demand for art. It is not the art of the state, the standards established by the state, or the cultural phenomena controlled by politicians that the Estonian person expects, but the free creation of free artists. Whether Arvo Pärt or Joseph Matjus, Valdur Mikita or Kris Lemsalu are the authors. Therefore, allow me once again to express the idea that I will continue to express while there are more politicians in Estonia who think that the Ministry of Culture should intervene in the content of culture, write and censor, strike down and add artistic content. This idea is as stupid as cowardly. And let it be said that this thought is also outstandingly foolish. It shows contempt not only for artists but also for viewers, and its only source is the fear that ideas are expressed in art and images are created that may not be suitable for a handful of fist politicians. If it was funny, and if the place was right, I'd laugh, but it's not funny. Nonsense is never funny. The job of the Ministry of Culture is to take care of numbers. And here I would draw another reason why our national culture is in a very good state right now. On the one hand, private capital has been added to the money provided by the State in recent years to a very significant extent. As a minister, I have defended the principle that it is up to the state to support private initiatives to fund culture. Our public already knows the names of many wild mushrooms that the Ministry of Culture has publicly recognised. Cultural friends Kristjan Rahu, Rain Lõhmus, Turid Farbregd, Armin Bear, Eva and Bengt Heyman, Jaanus Mikk and Narva Gate, Sylvia Kistler-Thompson and Andrew Thompson, Meelis Kubits, Mary Oviir-Neivelt have only a few names in a long line, but also Heiti Voice, who helped to re-open the great hall of Narva Alexander's church recently. The issue is fundamental and extends to other areas of the country. Estonia is a small society where the integration and integration of the state and private initiative must be much more effective than has been the case so far. I will continue to defend the principle that the Ministry's task is not to build a wall around the state, but to open new gates. We must support, encourage, appreciate, protect, not burden them with legal advice, question good intentions, or say that each shoemaker should stick to his own grid. Whatever ministry we do not work in, our understanding of the Estonian state as an open state must play an important role in our thinking. And we must be open to our people first and foremost. Just a few examples of how the state has handed its hand to a private initiative: the establishment of the Arvo Pärt Centre, the new exposition of Vabamu, cultural events in Kreenholm, the Jerome translation program or Konrad Mägi SA, all of which took place last year. Openness to the population also means openness of the state to local governments and communities, continuous cooperation and cooperation. And we've done it. This has been a cross-cutting principle, for example, in the implementation of the museum reform, where we create foundations together with local governments and, through cooperation, ensure the best development of museums. Examples include the places necessary for the success of the Song and Dance Festival: the Song Square and Kalevi Stadium will be arranged in cooperation with the City of Tallinn. Another important issue is the increase in the salaries of the cultural workers in the Ministry of Culture's own long-term perspective. I agree with Konrad Mägi that in art a person finds peace of mind, but the artist must also have peace of mind. If we can give musicians, actors, poets and museum scientists the knowledge that their everyday life is insured, then we can only hope that, as Konrad Mägi said, our soul's feast, or art, will be born. That is why I would like to turn back here to my original question as to whether we understand numbers in the same way. I can't! Numbers aren't numbers, they're an expression of something. And the creators' salary numbers are an expression of attitude. Yes, I could also quote here the first paragraph of our constitution, which formulates the preservation of culture as the main task of our country, but there are probably many souls in this Chamber too who are anxious to skip this annoying constitutional debate and to go to serious issues, such as excise duties, percentages or other numbers. But for what, ladies and gentlemen? What are we working for every day? What were we running for, and how many of us running for it again? We all demand a longer perspective, but what is your personal long perspective? What is it you want to leave behind? The three - room apartment inherited by the will and the cottage in Rannamõisa are not the mark we want to leave. For what, ladies and gentlemen? And I say that if we do not act in the name of what makes Estonia Estonia Estonia, then we will act in the name of nothing. Acts are important, but they do not make Estonia. The second pillar of the pension does not make Estonia. Our culture does. And therefore, the attitude toward creators is also equal to the attitude toward what we all go together for as a country. Not so many years ago, the Prime Minister said that totalitarian regimes support sport. And along with the then Minister of Culture, it was soon taken to the public to mock the salary of one of our prestigious and internationally very well-known conductors, the leaking of which to the press was not by accident, according to my conviction. This mockery was as cowardly as it was foolish. And let it be said that it was very stupid. Because in this way the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture attacked not only a conductor who received a fair reward but also a kind of attitude in general. There was an attack on the view that a cultural man must also receive a worthwhile reward for his work. All the decisions we have made in the Ministry of Culture over the past four years have been based on the attitude I would take together with the following words: the state is creating opportunities for the development and accessibility of culture, both for the creators of culture and for the recipients of it. The task of the Estonian state is to move Estonian culture forward. Once this principle is formulated, everything will be simple. We have to find the right numbers and stand up for them. Private initiative and public support must be combined and promoted. If the attitude is clear, you'll know what it's for. The Ministry of Culture should not be and is not the Ministry of Micromanaging. We have been the ministry through which the Estonian state expresses its attitude, and therefore we have made decisions, whether the salary of cultural workers is increased, the salary of artists and writers, or even taking the Tallinn Art Hall, Vox Clamantis and the Estonian Festival Orchestra under our wing. Yes, taking yourself under the wing is, of course, euphemism, because the Ministry does not have wings, we only have budget lines, but budget lines can give wings. Good Riigikogu! Now the numbers. And once again, there is a reason to start with wages. I hope that everyone in this Chamber will agree that people whose daily work is to preserve and develop Estonian culture must be valued and guaranteed a decent income for them. After all, the document on the fundamentals of cultural policy also sets the objective of ensuring that highly educated cultural workers have at least an average income by 2020. In 2015, when I gave you the first 'Cultural Policy Fundamentals until 2020' review, the minimum fee for a cultural worker was EUR 731 and the deficit was 46% of the average salary at that time, i.e. essentially one-and-a-half. We have made efforts, sought and found the means to raise wages to EUR 1300 in four years, which means an increase of 78%. The difference in average wages has narrowed to only 6%, and if the next government, which is to work after the elections, continues at an approximate pace, the target will be met by 2020. We also increased 7% this year to the payroll fund of people working in the cultural field, who are either support staff or whose wages are already above the average in Estonia. Of course, the management of each agency has the right to decide how to divide this increase in the payroll fund among its employees. It is important to stress that the Ministry of Culture can find the necessary resources and conclude a wage agreement with the central organisation of civil servants' associations, which concerns only nearly 4000 cultural workers working in the ministry. We cannot take away the decision-making power to determine wages, for example, from local authorities, but we can and must set an example. And there are many examples that the value of cultural workers has come along. For example, this year the city of Tallinn has also announced that they will follow the example of the state. In addition to the capital, many other smaller municipalities, who have raised the wages of cultural workers in recent years and thus expressed their attitude towards the sustainability of Estonian culture, must be recognised. The artist and writer's wage system, which was launched three years ago, has also proved successful, allowing freelance writers and artists to devote themselves to creative work for three years and thus contribute to the development of Estonian culture. At the end of last year, Mary Kangro said that the writer's salary affected the quality of her work rather than quantity, giving her the opportunity not to produce too much, but to do things she thought she needed to do and what we had never done before. More examples. Leelo Tungal has said: "Thanks to the writer's salary, I can start writing books about which until now only keywords and designs have been recorded in notebooks and computer. " Writer Mihkel Mutt believes that when society creates the opportunity to engage in pure spirit creation, it is 'invisible but of enormous importance to the vitality of society'. This year, 22 creative people will be paid from the Ministry of Culture's budget through creative associations. This figure will increase to 30 by 2021. We also agreed with the creative associations that the salary of the artists and writers' salaries would be 10% higher than the minimum salary of the cultural worker established each year, i.e. 1430 euros per month this year. Honourable Riigikogu! On page 52 of the report, the main achievements in all areas of culture are highlighted, but the time given for the speech does not allow them all to be mentioned separately. But as always you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, have the opportunity to ask. I hope you take this opportunity. But let me give you a brief mention of visual arts. Art helps the world to understand, stimulates imagination, and raises important questions. Our artists' work has always been acute, socially intrusive, critical, regardless of time and funding. This has been noticed both in Estonia and internationally. In the year of the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, several remarkable events introduced Estonia's artistic heritage took place. For example, Michel Sittow's grand exhibition of review in Tallinn and Washington, Konrad Mäe's personal exhibition in Rome and the Baltic symbolism joint project "Free Spirits" at the Paris Orsay Art Museum. The Cultural Prize of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was awarded by the street artist Edward von Lõngus, whose work was linked to the image of Estonia's history and e-governance and who thereby introduced Estonia today to the audience for whom reaching the concert of the Estonian Festival Orchestra hosted by Paavo Järvi or the exhibition of Estonia at the Venice Architecture Biennale is perhaps not so important. In order to ensure the widest possible creative opportunities for artists, the Ministry of Culture assumes greater responsibility for the development of the art field. This year, the funding of artistic art from the Ministry of Culture's budget increased for the first time by more than 1.5 million euros, or three times as much as it was four years ago. As the biggest change, the Art Hall operates entirely from the beginning of the year on the basis of the Ministry of Culture's operating grant, which significantly reduces competition in the foundation of the art representing and applied by the Cultural Endowment of Estonia and provides additional opportunities to support artists, projects and local initiatives. Dear Riigikogu! Opening the Arvo Pärt Centre last October was an important event not only for Estonia but for the whole world. After all, Pärt's work as a whole has left an important mark on the course of 20th - century musical history. Since 2012, the classical music database Bachtrack has produced Arvo Pärt as the world's most contemporary composer every year. The centre of the Arvo Pärt Centre is the composer's personal archive and information and music centre. The centre is a meeting place for musicians, scientists and music enthusiasts, for all those who are interested in his creation or mind, and, by the way, for those who are interested in world-class architecture. The Arvo Pärt Centre was chosen a few weeks ago to be one of the most important European architecture prizes, the Mies van der Rohe. The new building of the Estonian Academy of Arts in Kalamaja and the complex of the Estonian History Museum in Maarjamäe were also completed as high-quality architecture and important cultural objects. The construction of the hall of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre is in full swing and new major investments are the design of the renovation of the new ERR TV complex and the National Library. The horizon has the establishment of joint museums. However, in order to ensure that the buildings already completed and our cultural heritage are in order, this Riigikogu is discussing a new law on heritage conservation. Or what new one has been thoroughly and inclusively prepared for at least five years, and it corresponds to the European and world examples. I know that the draft has been discussed very thoroughly in the Committee on Culture and this debate continues, but I hope that you will be able to find and adopt compromises before the end of this Riigikogu mandate. As a new initiative, we have launched a pilot programme to preserve a valuable farm architecture, amounting to EUR 400000 over four years. There are good examples of the preservation of farm architecture in the museum environment in Estonia, both in the Estonian Open Air Museum and in several local museums. However, there has been a lack of support for maintaining the farm architecture in its original place and use, which is very important for maintaining both traditional architecture and construction techniques and skills. The National Heritage Board has so far supported the restoration of farms that are under heritage protection, and now all other owners can apply for support without protecting the buildings. You can apply for support for a residential building belonging to the farm complex, i.e. a single house built before 1940. In this way we hope to contribute to the preservation of Estonia's traditional land architecture and landscape. The aim of the second new support measure is to bring to Estonia international cultural and sporting events that enrich cultural life and boost the Estonian economy. Support will be granted to those events that would remain unaided by the State but which will generate at least one and a half times the amount of the subsidy in the national budget as tax revenue. Last year, in addition to several sporting events, the International Choir Festival Europa Cantat received funding under this measure. Good ambassadors! Estonia is a culturally rich country because, in addition to the unique regional cultural spaces, we are home to more than 190 nationalities. The Ministry of Culture, through the Integration Foundation, supports the activities of cultural societies and umbrella organisations of ethnic minorities, and two of the municipalities of Swedes and Ingerizomians. We support the activities of representatives of the different peoples living here, to preserve their cultural peculiarities and traditions, and at the same time create opportunities for them to be more active in society, to practice the Estonian language and to expand the social network. Only in this way will we be able to create a diverse but united culture and a friendly society. This is why in recent years we have taken special attention to cultural cooperation in Ida-Virumaa. Last month, Narva Vaba Lava was opened, the new content has become Alexander's church already mentioned, and the activities of the art residency continue successfully. Several new festivals were held last year in Narva and a lot of performances were given. A few weeks ago, we opened an Estonian language house in Tallinn, and we will do so in Narva this year. All people whose native language is not Estonian are welcome there, regardless of their nationality and language skills, in order to learn, practice or simply listen to the Estonian language and live faster in this life. Every speaker in Estonian is an important and valuable communicator of our culture. Therefore, a few years ago, we have restored free education in Estonian for adults - to be more accurate - from autumn 2015 to more than 10,000 people. Last year we mentioned, among other things, the free language learning application Speakly and it already has over 30,000 users. The number of speakers in our beautiful Estonian language need not be limited to those living in Estonia, the aim should be greater. Why not make the next major goal the dream of Mart Meri, one of the leaders of the Estonian Institute, to increase the number of Estonian speakers in the world to at least one-and-a-half million people? Good ambassadors! The internationally renowned Nigerian proseist who visited the literary festival HeadRead a few years ago and the poet Ben Okri said, among other things, that Estonians should overcome the obsession that they are a small nation. According to him, one nation is made small or large, not by the number of people, but by the size of the spirit of the people and the quality of the people's contribution, by the power of his convictions, and by the ideas that exist among the people. I quote: 'If one nation thinks and acts in a way that affects the world far more than its size would allow us to think, we can no longer speak of a small nation. ' I am convinced that Ben Okri is right. Is that not exactly what Jakob Hurt wanted more than a century ago, calling for the spirit to grow up? We are also deeply interested in the ideas and dreams of other nations, and so we are more aware of the best thoughts that are on the move in the world. By doing so, we can offer the world something they notice. The 'Estonian Republic 100' cultural programme, which reached more than 35 countries and organised more than 500 events, is a living proof of this. Moreover, we have been able to work much more together instead of being shut down and thus to achieve more and more. I would like to give an example here of cooperation with Lithuania and Latvia. Never alone, but it was thanks to Baltic cooperation that we could be the focus country of the London Book Fair together, organise an exhibition of Baltic symbolism at the Orsay Museum in Paris and create a Baltic Cultural Foundation together. And finally. The Year of Cultural Heritage handed the theatre stick over to the Year of Song and Dance. I don't know more powerful expression of an inner desire for culture than our song festival tradition. Yes, for some, the inner hunger for culture means thirst for a better position in the cultural world, but I am talking here about one singing under the blue black whites, which gives our tricolor back his original meaning: not the concealment of the uncultural actions of fist politicians, but the unification of our people. Culture is a sign of how we view the world. And while we have a song party, we can say calmly: we view the world as an open, democratic and friendly place, where, despite differences, we can sing together and hold together this one and only Estonian culture that is not in the rest of the world. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary elections are about to take place. And as usual, we ask each other rhetorically, often through the media: what is your long plan? Where's your long perspective? What's the big narrative? I do not want to call here for a long, cross-party perspective. Or rather, I would, but it is clear that the air is hot right now and the consensus is unlikely to be possible, even if we all accepted this appeal in our hearts. I would therefore only describe my internal conviction here. Estonian culture is only possible in Estonia. Everything else in Estonia is also possible elsewhere. Different rates, different widths of roads, various bridges and railways, quotas and rates are all possible elsewhere. I'm not saying they're minor. No, they're very important. But for what, ladies and gentlemen? What are we here for? What is it we leave behind? What is it that we and our actions are remembered for? What are we working for, good Riigikogu? If all this is not for Estonian culture, then I do not know what it could be for. I don't think we all go together for just one book of poetry or somebody's sculpture. No! I'm talking about culture. I'm talking about a song party and a dance, I'm talking about Arvo Pärt and Kris Lemsalu, I'm talking about concerts, books, paintings, etc., but above all, I'm talking about Estonian culture in the broadest sense of the word, our language, our thinking, our meetings. I am talking about the ability of people living in our forest villages to talk to nature and the architecture of our new residential districts, thoughts and ideas that fill our living space. It's not all abstract, it's very specific. My activities over the last four years have been concrete: an increase in the salaries of cultural workers, an increase in resources in the field, private capital, greater cooperation between the community and the state. But what are these things for? I guess it's for our culture. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U74	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U75	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! This plan included a copyright law and an empty tape fee. What progress is being made in this regard, and what is the position of the Government of the Republic? How sure can the authors be that this topic will in any way be resolved? Is it possible to say some numbers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U76	Thank you for your question. It has to be admitted that this is actually a painful subject for the government to look at. I am pleased that the members of the Riigikogu, having waited four years for the government to do something about it, finally took the initiative and submitted a draft law. At the end of last year, a proposal for a compromise was finally reached in the government, and it was the version proposed by the Minister of Justice that the remuneration of an empty tape would be paid from the state budget in the order of 2 million a year from 2020. This was not the first preference of authors and performers' representative organisations, but they accepted this compromise option and have also expressed it. That is why the government agreed on this principle at the end of the year. I hope that the initiative of the Riigikogu ambassadors and the willingness of the government to proceed with this will, however, be brought together in a reasonable manner in the Riigikogu and, before the end of its composition, the authors and performers will have the assurance that they will still be paid in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U77	Ladies and gentlemen, Just in case, I would remind you that it is possible for each of you to ask an oral question on the Minister's report. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you for your report. A lot was good, but I'd like to go back and forth to the law of the show agencies, which has been planned for a long time. In Estonia, there are both private institutions and foundations established by the state; they require different funding and different approaches. It should all be in the future act of performing institutions. The elections are now coming, and it is clear that there is no way of getting anywhere, but the law on the next composition needs to be adopted quickly. How far has this bill come, and what are the prospects?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U79	Thank you! This is an issue that has indeed been under discussion for many years. The Ministry of Culture has sought to get one line in these matters with its partners, i.e. with the employers' organisation of the performing institutions, with ETEAL in short, as well as with the Theatre Association. But, as you can imagine, there have been conflicting ideas in the Union of performing institutions, which includes institutions with different forms of ownership and different forms of public support, where to move in a direction to, rather than saying that opinions have sometimes been radically opposite. There have been approaches where it has seemed that there could be a move forward with the bill, and there have been moments when, after the negotiated version has been put on paper, it has come to the conclusion that this is not the case. That is why, unfortunately, we do not have a definitive solution at the moment. Now I have been assured once again that the heads of the performing institutions have reached a fundamental compromise and the Ministry of Culture could start drafting a draft law. We all understand, however, that neither the Committee on Culture nor the Riigikogu will be able to delve into this in the remaining time. So, unfortunately, this will indeed be the task of the next composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U80	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U81	Thank you. Good minister! I have this question: how is the problem of social protection for freelancers being solved in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance? Above all, I mean health insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U82	Ain Lutsepp, a member of the Riigikogu, asked me about this last week and I answered him. This solution has had several stages. In any case, Praxis has made proposals on how to move forward with this issue. After all, it involves many more people than freelance creative people. The 19th century is no longer working on the basis of a familiar working time schedule, that everyone goes to work in the morning, that they finish at the same time in the evening and that wages are paid once a month or how often they are paid in the country. The forms of reward and work have changed a great deal, especially in the last few decades. So the problem concerns a lot more people than just creative people. As far as creative people are concerned, freelancers are based on the elementary social guarantees that can be applied for by the creators' law, which guarantees them at a time when they are temporarily unable to receive remuneration. About 1.2 million euros have been allocated from the state budget this year. But the problem is, if you get paid from time to time, you're not temporarily unemployed, but you get paid maybe two to three times a year, your social security will be interrupted. It has been a concern, however, that such regulation may entail a very high risk that some employees or employers will use it in the future in such a way that they will no longer pay social tax at all, or only pay for the minimum fee, even though the annual average fee will be much higher. But I hope that these Praxis recommendations will allow us to move forward, and the Tax and Customs Board has promised to analyse the matter in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. Why has it taken some time? The reason is that the Ministry of Social Affairs carried out a study in which one possible option was a solution that would guarantee health insurance for all Estonian people, whether they would receive social contributions or not. It is concluded that the tax risks involved are too high and cannot be done in this form. It is now possible to carry out further analyses by stage. But what is definitely being done this year is that the Health Insurance Fund is beginning to inform people in advance in advance if their health insurance is threatened with an interruption. So at least in terms of awareness, it gets a little better this year, but the next steps will be taken as a result of these analyses.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U83	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you for this very comprehensive and meaningful report, and also for the report on it made today. My question concerns the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture with the city of Tallinn. This has sometimes been very successful, and I am thinking above all of repeating the stadium and the singing circle. What is the stage of cooperation in the city hall? There was a conference center planned, but we were even hoping that the symphony orchestra's room problems could be solved. Where has it come to, and is it going in some direction in 2019?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U85	Yes, the city has spoken of its willingness to move forward with this issue. I have requested that, after meetings in different formats, we reach the government office with this memorandum. The Cabinet consists of three parties, not all expressing a clear willingness to discuss it in the Cabinet. I hope that this moment will come in the near future, but I cannot guarantee it in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U86	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U87	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Thank you very much for the review you have presented to the Committee on Culture and to others, as well as for today's very good presentation. There hasn't been such a meaningful document and such a good presentation in a long time. My question concerns the export of culture. Could you give more details on some of the activities that are planned in the future? The cultural export section was a little scattered in the report and a little out of focus for me, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U88	Thanks for asking. If you look at our anniversary plan, it was a huge cultural export project. This is in addition to all the activities that took place here on the ground. As I said, more than 500 events were held in more than 35 countries, which were part of the official programme, but in fact there were still a number of activities that have never been in any programme. However, it is clear that as much money as we used in the anniversary year was, as usual, you put a little aside for the party, after you have to do less, we will have no culture in the coming years. Very positive was the willingness of all the ministries involved in the export of culture in this whole jubilee year and to some extent in the Presidency year to move forward together. This readiness and general awareness of what someone is doing and how synergies can be found together has increased greatly. I am thinking, in addition to the Ministry of Culture, in particular, about the Ministry of Economic Affairs, especially the people involved in tourism there, and, of course, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have different work formats, which we use to deal with it and discuss how to proceed. We have also thought about where to find additional funding, but we do not have a final solution and therefore, in the report last year, there is nothing to be said about black white. These things are still in the working phase. But there's a tendency we've been keeping. This is because, in the case of those institutions or creative collectives, who are primarily focused on cultural exports, where we see that their activities in the field of cultural exports are regular, we have tried to include in the terms of their annual support that they do not have to come from us for every small enterprise, but that is the natural part of their budget, so-called their statutory activities. But yes, as far as concrete measures are concerned, I must remain vague at the moment, because there is no final agreement between the parties involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U89	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Minister of Culture! I like culture, too, and I liked that presentation, but I look at you on the remote as well as the Minister of Sports. That is why I would like to ask that although this report does not concern sport, the Ministry of Culture is also involved in sports: what is the state of Team Estonia? In the meantime, it was promised that he would come, and then it turned out that he might, but the money didn't come, the content remained the same, but the form changed and the name changed. And since I may be able to extort a man's word from you for the last time in this composition, please tell me what your vision is, how this Team Estonia should look like, what to deal with, what its funding is, and so on. Then all sports people would also know whether it's worth hoping for or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U91	Thank you for your question. As a passionate sports friend, I am always happy to be able to talk about sport, but we talked about it here in depth within the framework of discussing the fundamentals of sport policy. In short, I can tell you that Team Estonia is coming. For this, EUR 8 million has been earmarked in the state budget for the next four years, but I hope that additional funds will also be found over time, so that this will not be the only allocation of funds in this four year period. The Estonian Olympic Committee is actively engaged in the creation of Team Estonia in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and relevant sports promoters. That thought hasn't gone away, on the contrary, it's in full swing. But, of course, all the ideas and concrete subsidies that will help to find more resources to implement it are very welcome, because in the long term, of course, this money alone is not enough. But we can always talk about sports in Virumaa, your constituency. You can come by sometime, and then we can talk about sports in different variations.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U92	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for this presentation. I'm still gonna ask you my classic question. I look at these cultural objects that are completed and ready, and I rejoice in them. However, in many cases these are heritage protected objects, which are subject to special legal conditions. My question is, on the one hand, how are things completed or more mature for objects with their physical accessibility? How do you rate it? And secondly, have you experienced that one law may also be an obstacle to such access? So, where is this balance between protecting an object and protecting the interests of the people on the other hand?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U94	Thank you for your question. When we are talking about access to culture, of course, this also applies very directly to the whole accessibility problem that affects people with disabilities. I guess we've talked about this before here, that we've already gotten used to seeing that opportunities are being created for people with reduced mobility, but many other types of disability are, at first glance, not often on top of which there are no problems of their own. I believe we've become much smarter in the Ministry of Culture over the past few years. We have specifically organised various meetings and seminars to train ourselves and the staff of the agencies. As regards the law on heritage conservation, on the one hand, yes, it must ensure the preservation of our cultural heritage, on the other hand, the basic principle of heritage conservation is that the best heritage that is in active use is preserved. If some people, or people at all, can't get anywhere, many places can't be in active use. The decision-makers should have enough sober mind and pragmatic thinking to understand that they do not necessarily have to retain 100% external shape at the cost of shutting some people out of society because they cannot access a specific building. The new draft law on the protection of heritage, which is the subject of passionate discussions, adds flexibility to heritage protection, allowing sufficient discretion and differentiation in individual cases. I very much hope that we will not stick to the current law on heritage conservation, which has drawn us up in many things quite so-called. We believe that the Riigikogu will find a compromise and knock on this bill instead of leaving it in the next composition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U95	Minister, thank you very much for your presentation and your answer to the questions. There are no more questions. I would remind you that at the end of this debate, the Riigikogu will not take a decision, which will not diminish the importance and meaning of the negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, please, Aadu Black.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We also listened to this report in the Committee on Culture, and I will say briefly that the Commission held the view that our cooperation has been overwhelmingly sympathetic, in a spirit of mutual understanding and ambition. I have decided that I will not repeat everything the Minister of Culture has already said and not even what we discussed in the Commission after me will be a few more sympathetic members of the Commission who will be able to expand this issue. I will specifically address only the important areas of culture that I myself have been strongly involved in practical life and have shaped my own assessment. The first of these is what we are carrying here in Parliament with Johannes Kerd: this is the work of the Baltic Assembly, Baltic cooperation. One really very sympathetic aspect is that our neighbours recognise the work of our Ministry of Culture. The Latvian Minister of Culture, Dace Melbarde, who will now continue in the new government, said that the threshold between Estonia and Latvia has somehow fallen lower. He very much commended our Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Culture, and you know how pleased I was to hear that. We went to Finland with the Committee on Culture, and the attitude was roughly the same. For my part, I must say that we have had full mutual understanding and cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, developing relations with Finland and Latvia in the northern direction. For my part, I congratulate the Minister for Culture on the fact that, if we have discussed some things on the run and talked about what is planned in the Baltic Assembly, I will soon have heard that our minister has already discussed it with the Latvian Minister and carried it out. This concerns both the Baltic Cultural Fund and the Finnish-Estonian Cultural Fund. This last one is particularly important. You know, there was this story in the Baltic Assembly for years that we gave each other bonuses and declared writers the winners of the Baltic Assembly Prize, but after that, when I asked for the old example, because it was like a surface in a delicate place, who then received the Baltic Assembly Cultural Prize this year, the answer was: 'One Latvian that was his name, in any case, at the end of his last name was s. " But now we hope to get so far that if anyone from Latvia or Lithuania receives a prize, we can read this literature in our own language and Latvian-Lithuania can read the works of our laureates in our own language. Another very big issue that has excited me personally, and many of my colleagues too, is inter-agency cooperation. You know, I repeat what has already been said in this Chamber or in this speech chair: Estonia's great problem is fragmentation. This is a professional fragmentation: different authorities often do the business of the administration and only after that Estonian business. They duplicate and rival, especially for money. And in this context, it is most sympathetic for me and the other members of the committee, as well as the members of the National Library Council and the Archives Council, that the National Library has put together the forces of the National Archives and the Estonian National Library, despite their submission to different ministries, for the reconstruction project of the National Library. The ministries support them and this somewhat empty proud and historic building, the National Library building problem will be solved in cooperation with the two ministries. Yesterday, a design decision was taken, and for that, for maintaining our national culture, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Culture, but also, of course, other parties involved. A good colleague, Valdo Randpere, said that this must definitely be said in this speech chair. Now for the third topic, which I will simply mention. As Chairman of the Tartu City Council, I must stress that the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture with local governments seems very sympathetic, at least from Tartu it seems that way. This is in various areas: I call interest activities, interest education, museums and, at all, the whole area that the Ministry of Culture is curating.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U97	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U98	Finally, I would like to talk about a few things that have been mentioned several times today. I mean the law of heritage. The law on heritage conservation has indeed done a great job, but since I have seen several laws on heritage conservation dealt with, I know that, of course, this law will never be completed. When society gets richer, there will be new opportunities. That's what we're always dreaming about, and then there's gonna be a better law of heritage. The current project is much better than the previous one. I also say this as a Tartian because I am a chosen person from Tartu. For the Tartians, the point of knowledge of good and evil has been what the Minister spoke of. If the Town Hall of Tartu receives permission from the Heritage Protection to build an elevator there, this building will survive and remain in use, which the new concept of heritage conservation also serves as an objective. What we are saying is that, above all, the building must live, but the secondary objective is that it must remain as original as possible. If this decision is taken, we will applaud all the Tartians together and say that the new law on heritage conservation is a great thing. The Ministry of Culture's activities in valuing our heritage and understanding our problems deserve praise. We will also get over these last bumps, in some places compromises still have to be made. And the last, purely personal position. Indrek here said that there is, unfortunately, no long-term consensus between the parties. Well, let's get to it, maybe a lot of it will come! I see the Minister is signaling that, in fact, I think we are all in agreement on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U99	Thank you, Mr Black. Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U100	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of my speech, I will reach the balance principle of China, which, for me, will show the same 'Principles of Culture Policy until 2020' report. But I had another thought: the minister and the chairman of the Committee on Culture are, in a way, Chinese yin and yang, who together form a whole and thus guarantee that the work of the Committee on Culture is quite fruitful. But so be it. In man's nature there must be a subconscious desire to put on official documents when they are read out, more poetic headlines. I christened the report I just heard as a balance report. This dynamic search for balance can be perceived at different levels. First, I sense that a balance is being sought between people and construction. Raising the wages of highly educated cultural workers has taken a long step in recent years and this is certainly the right direction. A cultural worker does not have to be a snowflake rolling pennies in his pocket, but a knowledgeable creator of his value, society and his life. The expected continuation of wage increases creates a prerequisite for this. The same creativity can be felt by 11 artists who receive creative salaries, whose number will increase to 15 in a few years. On the other hand, it is quite natural for creators to move in inspiring and tasteful spaces. It is the building of the Estonian Academy of Arts or the Arvo Pärt Centre in Laulasmaa. In the latter case, I want to talk about a personal memory. A couple of months ago, I went there, and through two windows, who have been to the centre of Pärt, know that since the windows are in such a vink, many things can be viewed through two windows, and I saw Arvo Pärt. Believe me, there's a harmony between this building and the maestro! Very clearly there is! Secondly, I would call for a cautious search for the balance between stone and wood. Perhaps in protecting and preserving our heritage, we have forgotten the larger and proudest stone buildings of the size of the lower and more everyday dwellings, the valuable farm architecture. True, at first we will support it with caution, EUR 100000, but this year it will also be possible to apply for support for wood-built farms. This balance between stone and wood is, of course, symbolic. I very much hope that this measure will be extended in the future. Thirdly, we seek a balance between electronic and human language learning. On the one hand, we are developing smart language learning solutions in the context of integration, an example is Speakly, which was already discussed and which already has users in tens of thousands of people, while on the other, we have just witnessed the opening of the Tallinn Estonian language house. The Narva Estonian language house has an address, but I have learned that there is still a few months to open. I'll have another minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U101	One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U102	Fourthly, I would like to mention the balance between international and national. Indeed, more than 500 cultural events have been organised in the framework of the 'Estonian Republic 100'. We are proud of our representation at the London Book Fair and, for example, the exhibition of Baltic symbolism in Paris, but all these events are balanced by our anniversary-year song and dance party. Good friends! Indeed, I know Chinese culture relatively superficially, but from time to time I have been tempted to explain the world's dynamically balanced yin and yang keys. At the same time, there is also the land wool version of this principle: the second book of Eno Rau's Naksitrallide concludes with the words: 'In nature there must be a balance. " It remains to be noted that it is likely to be just like our culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U103	Thank you, Mr Jürgenstein. Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U104	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the Minister for this very thorough report and the report document. A strong culture unites us all. This is the basis for the functioning of society as a whole. The richer and more preserved our culture, the stronger we are as a nation. Culture is not just a term and something that is very self-evident. Without culture, without our own culture, we would be nothing. Such a thorough review was really happy to read. Quite a large part of last year's cultural events were carried out on the initiative of 'Estonian Republic 100', as was the case with the document. The jubilee events have indeed been very comprehensive both in Estonia and beyond our borders. Cultural actors have also excelled in cooperation between themselves and in a very diverse way, and the involvement of the citizens' initiative deserves great praise. The main event of the 'Estonian Republic 100' has given great impetus to our culture. Especially significant progress has been made by our film industry, the field of contemporary art, the international cultural exchange programme and, if you talk about projects close to your heart in the context of the 'Estonian Republic 100' events, I will certainly highlight the action 'Every child with his or her own pill'. In total, 3,000 instruments were purchased. In addition, the construction of 100 oak parks and the "Good Public Space" programme in cooperation with the Society of Architects were launched. Important activities that strengthen our culture are either already initiated or at least planned. We are talking here, for example, about a very important education of interest, which has received additional support and which ensures equal treatment for municipal and private stakeholders. I'm really happy about that. Arvo Pärt Centre, Estonian Academy of Arts House, Narva Vaba Lava, Estonia's music and theatre house and much more have been completed. Although the building that has been demolished to the last border of Estonian National Broadcasting is likely to have to last a few years, we look forward not only to allocating funds for the construction of the new building of the ERR, as the report shows, but also to allocating funds in the future. Cultural diversity is a very strong aspect of our culture. At this point, I would like to mention the fact that the European Regional Development Fund, which opened up in 2015, has become quite effective funding for our creative enterprises, incubators, accelerators and support networks. Creative Estonia, which operates across all fields, has shown very good results. These are just a few examples. We look forward to a clearer expression in the field of cultural export among other activities, as well as to the clarity of the more concrete replacement model developed for the activities of the Gambling Tax Council. I would simply remind you that the Gambling Tax Council has been a great help for many years to organisations active in the fields of education, culture, sport and social affairs, and in many cases the total budget of these organisations has been allocated from this tax. But unfortunately, it happened as it did. This Council has been completed, but a clear and very concrete alternative has not been proposed to date. We have reached the point where the first month of the financial year is beginning to pass, but the organisations do not have any clarity as to the extent to which the budget for this year will be approved. But in the end, I congratulate this report. I welcome the exemplary work of the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U105	I congratulate Mrs Purga on her performance. Thank you. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! Minister, thank you very much. The year 2018 was a meaningful, beautiful and good year for Estonian culture. This is especially true for all creators, whether in literature, art, theatre, or film. In the framework of this year, the 'Estonian Republic 100' on the one hand and the 'Estonian Year of Cultural Heritage' on the other hand, and in the combination of these symbols, many beautiful, many good and many fascinating things were born thanks to our creators, which really led to Estonian culture in the wider world and made Estonians visible with its support. There are three major areas for which I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Culture. One of these is certainly the wages of cultural workers, because without the cultural worker being able to live off his salary, we cannot say that culture is doing well. The second is an education of interest, the development of the concept of youth education of interest, which is now being implemented through the Ministry of Education and Research, but the conceptual assembly of which was definitely carried out by the Ministry of Culture, thus also proving that it has the capacity to be the interconnector of the fields in terms of culture as well as in terms of education. And the third very important issue that the Ministry has been able to deal with at a completely new level is integration. Integration not only in the sense that other peoples living in Estonia need to speak the Estonian language better, but precisely in the sense that integration can bring new and positive results to Estonian culture, Estonian state and Estonian people. It is especially nice to see the involvement of fellow nationalists who are scattered around the world, either on the basis of the development of the concept of multinationalism or something else. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U107	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U108	However, there are three major areas on which I would like to make a point, particularly considering not so much this successful activity and the report, but what is yet to come of us and what direction could the Estonian cultural policy be in which the new plan will definitely start to move forward. One topic is the salaries of choir, orchestra and dance directors. This year, we are all celebrating the round and dignified anniversary of the Estonian Song Festival in great joy-stories, and we can say that this year, the entire festivals will be financed more, and one million euros will be added to the finances. But this is not a solution enough to last our whole tradition of singing and dancing. The solution must be modern, look beyond the future and ensure that this tradition, which not only unites the peoples living here, gives Estonia a picture of such values to the whole world and lasts. By giving more money in this form, and certainly taking advantage of this party, we are not actually solving the problem ourselves. Secondly, bringing back the source of our literary story, but also, more generally, the original texts, the original materials, the sources of Estonian cultural history. You see, at the beginning of the 20th century, Estonian intellectuals formulated one of the basic truths: Estonia will become a full cultural nation if it has an adequate cultural history, a cultural story without holes. Only a culture story without holes will allow the people to rely on adequate self-esteem. A people who do not have their own story, whether by chance or by bad, will at some point lose the ability to judge their own state adequately. And that's something we can't afford. It was understood and inspired very boldly and very consciously in the early part of the 20th century. And now we have moved to this stage with our literature sources, very many basic literature classics and cultural classical texts, that we cannot and cannot produce them. And here I see that not only does the Ministry of Culture have to deal with it. He should involve the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Rural Affairs. It is precisely this story of a nation without holes that will later free us from the increase in both social costs and defence costs, as it will give a strong spirit to the people. And passing on the meaning of this spirit and the whole story must not be left to museums, libraries, and individual home-story researchers, as it has now fallen out. It's the responsibility of the whole nation. And all this responsibility of the people can and can best be understood and transmitted by the Ministry of Culture in its modern format. As far as museums and libraries are concerned, there is certainly no need, especially in the case of libraries, to think only that we need to implement the online lending quickly. This is normal. Using e-borrowing is keeping up with the times. But we don't have libraries, I'm thinking about the public libraries above all, the modern interpretation of the roles. What do we need them for in different places in Estonia? Is it just so that they share literature when renting literature goes to e-service? Rather, public libraries, like museums, like many small community houses, should be the keepers of the spirit of the people. And keeping the spirit of the people is one of the greatest responsibilities that we have to fulfil here in the Riigikogu in promoting cultural policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U109	Thank you, Mr Krista Aru. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U110	Good Chairman! Good colleagues and good Minister of Culture! We have agreed in the group that if all five parties have spoken and no one wants to speak about the Fatherland, then I will have the opportunity to come to the remote. I would like to begin with a simple poem written by Merle Jääger: 'Educately filthy and rotten in the inside of the soul, I enter into the life of the noisy, from the working family. " This cultural talk is so pleasant, so fascinating, and we have absolutely everyone's position. I'm also going to read a poem written 37 years ago. I'm sure you'll feel it's going to have a very different effect today than it was in its day. Those who know me will not be surprised if I say that the author is Hando Runnel: 'A beautiful red toilet on the shore of Peipsi. I've never been there. Nobody's been to the red toilet. Where they go, I'm looking for an explanation. I've seen the world and everything. Each has its own culture. Kusa is the toilet clean, the shush is big. Kussa's daily petrified education so-so great. Education is not a toilet, a toilet is a culture. The beautiful red toilet is reflected in Peipsi water. Incoming generations will sit in it once. ' Just coming back to that toilet, I want to tell you a strange story. 15 years ago, when drug prevention was done, and we, who thought we knew what young people were talking about, made 17 posters. Only one poster mattered to young people, spoke to them: the girl was in the toilet, sat in the stool with her new company clothes. But with 16 visual images, we had completely screwed up. Young people were just talking about how they'd sit in such a filthy toilet with their own clean company clothes. That should be the point. If we want our culture to be passed on, young people need to give their input, which they consider to be culture. It is up to us to keep what we have, what has been passed on to us with the salt and milk of the land. We should be the guardians of a culture that works now, but we must also let young people get close to us and give them the opportunity to formulate their thoughts and find a place. Dear colleagues and people who are watching us through the Internet! Come to the real school tomorrow at 14:00 and you will see how the young people of the five upper secondary schools in downtown Tallinn celebrate the peace of Tartu! This is not an event forced by the Estonian Flag Society this year by the Estonian flag to be 135 years old, which is an own-initiative undertaking for young people. How, though, can we encourage these young ones? How can we keep ourselves in check by admonishing that we know exactly how things are supposed to be? As long as we know everything exactly, and as long as the young people speak only after us, as long as we keep exhorting that the feet will not be hung at the table, the salmon will continue to last. And so we look comfortably at our own plasma TV, while young people are on a smartphone in a completely different world. We only get together when there's a more important party at the dinner table. We say, 'And on that, the old... ', and the old do, but the young are somewhere else. Today I have this question: we are celebrating China's New Year, but what does it have to do with China's New Year? I have the answer as always. We must prepare ourselves, after all, says that the Estonian country must be against the Chinese wall. Let's get ready!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U111	Thank you, Mr Kruusimäe. Mr. Minister, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U112	Thank you very much for your feedback! Heidy Purga mentioned the Gambling Tax Council and asked how these instruments would be used in the future. As far as the cultural component is concerned, I must make it clear that it is not indefinite, it has been agreed some time ago. The People's Culture Centre has announced support for regional cultural activities; all these amounts will go to this call for proposals. The application shall be made four times a year. From 13 February to 14 March, it is possible to apply for funds in the first round. So all the amounts of gambling tax that were previously put at the disposal of the Gambling Tax Board now go to this call for applications, which is managed by the People's Culture Centre. I have no reason to believe that the competence of the Centre for Folk Culture in relation to regional initiatives would be less than that of the Gambling Tax Council so far. But thank you again for your feedback! And a bright, inspiring and cultural election campaign!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U113	Thank you, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar! I'm closing the negotiations. We have listened to the 'Principles of Culture Policy until 2020' report on the implementation of the year 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U114	We will go to the sixth item on today's agenda, which is the second reading of the Bill 799 of Amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group and the Government of the Republic. Please speak to Heljo Pikhof, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I bring to you the discussion of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in the Commission and the procedural steps between first and second reading. The draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act 505 was initiated by the Estonian Reform Party Group on 14 September 2017. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act on 15 October 7292018. The draft sought to create the possibility of introducing additional sanctions on school pupils. On 17 January 2019, however, the Committee on Culture made a fundamental decision to merge drafts 505 and 729 and to draft a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act on the basis of a draft prepared by the Government of the Republic. Both initiators agreed to the merger. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft 729 after the first reading twice, then on 10 December and 17 December, and the joint draft once: this year on 17 January. Ten amendments were decided. At the meetings of the Committee on Culture, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Research, as well as representatives of the Estonian Association of School Leaders and the Estonian Student Associations, presented their views. The representatives of the Estonian Association of School Leaders and the Estonian Student Association did not support the draft, while the representative of the Estonian Teachers' Association expressed his support for it. Let us now go to the amendments. First of all, Amendment 1. The Committee on Culture proposes to merge, as I have already said, two drafts: the draft of the Reform Party and the draft of the Government of the Republic. Both parties supported this proposal. Both drafts aim to ensure a safe and learning-friendly school environment. The draft initiated by the Government of the Republic has resolved the shortcomings of regulation which did not allow the adoption of the draft as a 505 law. Amendment 2: The Committee on Culture proposes to clarify the list of substances prohibited at school and to inform the police about them. The list of prohibited articles and substances contained in the original text of the bill shall be amended. Those substances and articles which are not mentioned in the text of the Act, and in particular in § 44 (11), may be taken into custody by the School, but shall not be entitled to take them away in the examination of matters held by the student. Paragraph 44 (11) (3) of the Law is reworded and states that a student is banned from school from being used to cause poisoning or drunkenness. According to the original text of the bill, a substance used for the production of narcotic drugs, toxic or alcoholic beverages is prohibited at school. The reason is that there is no need to distinguish between alcohol and narcotics. The words "toxic substance' used in the original text of the draft act refer to toxic substances and are therefore reworded for the sake of clarity. Paragraph 44 (11) (5) is also amended. It is supplemented in such a way that in addition to the substance or object used to endanger the life or health of a student or another person, the original text of the draft contains the word 'asi' or a substance used to damage a foreign matter. The purpose of the amendment is also to enable the presence of an object or substance used to damage foreign property to be verified and removed from the student's possession. Applying and controlling the student's possession of objects and substances in the student's possession, it is always necessary to ensure that the last measure is still in order and that its preconditions are met. This means that, where possible, persuasion is used and it is proposed that the article/substance should be disposed of on a voluntary basis. Things at the student's disposal will be checked against his or her will only if there is no other way to eliminate the immediate or immediate threat to the life or health of the student or another person or to foreign property. This paragraph lays down a list of prohibited substances and articles for pupils at school. The bill also contains a list of items to be notified to the police. They are given as references to specific points in § 44 (11). The amendment made by the Commission will abandon references and spell out which items and substances are reported to the police. The list of substances and articles for which the police are informed shall also be amended. Compared to the original text of the draft, the school is not obliged to notify the police of a pyrotechnic substance or article, as well as of a substance used to cause toxic drinking. Paragraph 44 (13) of the Act states that the list of articles and substances not covered by the Act, but prohibited at school, is to be established in the Rules of Procedure of the School. Paragraph 44 (11) of the Act contains a list of prohibited articles and substances in the school, which, in the event of reasonable doubt, has the right to verify their existence and to remove them. Amendment 3 concerns the possibility for schools not only to deposit objects but also substances which are not directly prohibited by law but which are used by the student in a way that is incompatible with the rules of the school. According to the bill, § 58 (3) (6) entitles the school to deposit items held by the student which are not prohibited by law. However, such a right does not include the right to review student's belongings or clothing, but it may be necessary to deposit an hour's disruptive mobile phone. The amendment specifies that this paragraph regulates not only the deposit of items but also the deposit of substances. Amendment 4 concerns the control and removal of prohibited articles or substances. In the original text of the draft act, the measure provided for in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is aimed at reviewing the student's possession, including the closed cabinet used by the student, and at controlling the student and his or her clothing by observing and handing. The amendment recasts the proposal, which now focuses on checking the existence of a substance or article and removing the student from possession. The explanatory note also states that checking the student's belongings and clothes is not allowed in case of need. This activity can only be based on reasonable suspicion that the student may have in his possession an object or subject which is prohibited in school pursuant to § 44 (11) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. Control may consist only of looking at things or touching hands. It is now also noted that the limit must be limited to testing the wearing and wearing clothing, and this right does not extend to the area between body and clothing. If there is a situation where there are reasonable grounds to believe that a student may possess dangerous objects or substances and is likely to have just hidden them between the body and clothing, then the parent or the police should be involved in the student's examination, depending on the size of the threat. Go on, depositing the forbidden thing. This is also the case with Paragraph 58 (3) (62), which also introduces an amendment in relation to the original text of the draft. It is provided that when a student transfers a prohibited item or substance himself or herself, another school staff member is not required to be present. In general, two people must be present at the removal. Amendment 5 - Control and preparation for the application of the sanctioning measure. The Committee on Culture shall, on a proposal from the Ministry of Education and Research, replace the training for the application of the incentive measure. According to the amendment, the person who has the preparation for the application of the sanction may be the person who applies the sanction to be included in the draft. The original text of the draft act contained a person "who has completed the training necessary for the application of the sanctioning measure'. The Minister of Education told us in the Commission that this knowledge can be acquired in level and in-service training, and that it is planned to develop guidance material for applying the new legislation to schools during the first quarter of 2019. Amendment 6 concerns the return of items and items. An amendment has been made to the draft act specifying the regulation on the return of the deposited items and substances. As a general rule, items and substances taken into custody shall be returned to the student at the latest at the end of the school day. In the case of weapons, explosives or substances used for the production of narcotic drugs, the police shall be informed and handed over to the police. If it is not a weapon, explosive or substance used to induce drug abuse, it shall be handed over to the parent after discussing the student's behaviour with the parent or, where appropriate, with the police in the light of the dangers of the matter or substance. Amendment 7 concerns anti-intentional control and removal. Paragraph 58 (51) to be included in the draft provides for mandatory preconditions for the application of the sanction imposed by the draft act against the intention. If we look at the original text of the draft, we will see that it provides that the measure in question can only be applied, inter alia, if it is not possible to eliminate the immediate or immediate threat to mental or physical security. The amendment replaces this sentence and the new wording is: 'It is not possible to eliminate an immediate or immediate threat to the life or health of a student or another person or to a foreign matter if there is no control.' Amendment 8 concerns the control of clothes. The original text of the bill will allow the student and the student's clothes to be checked by a person of a different sex with the student only if delaying the check would jeopardise the achievement of the objective of control. The amendment allows the student's clothes to be checked by a person who is not of the same sex as the student, but if delaying the examination would jeopardise the life or health of the student or another person or a foreign matter. At the same time, it states that the student's clothing is checked, not the student's and his clothing, as was in the original text. Amendment 9 concerns the preparation of the minutes. The Committee on Culture proposes to amend the list of data to be entered in the withdrawal and deposit minutes. In the original text of the draft act, it was worded that the record should include an indication of the examination of the student, his or her items or the closed cabinet in his or her possession, the amendment specifying that an indication of the examination of the student's items or of the closed cabinet in his or her use was made, because the student's items, rather than the student's, were checked. Amendment 10 concerns monitoring the feasibility of applying sanctions. The Committee on Culture recommends deleting the provision requiring the Ministry of Education and Research to supervise the withdrawal, control and deposit of prohibited articles and substances, the application of the measures covered by the draft. In particular, § 84 (1) of the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act already provides for the obligation of the State to exercise administrative supervision over the legality of the activities of schools and schoolkeepers and is carried out on behalf of the State by the Ministry of Education and Research. Whether it was practical in a particular case for school activities to be applied wisely in a particular situation is, in practice, extremely difficult to control, and this does not seem practical, because of the relatively long time between the moment of the check and the event. If problems arise, they can be challenged by administrative procedure. Finally, the procedural decisions and proposals of the Committee on Culture. On 17 January 2019 the Committee on Culture decided to submit a draft of 799 for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 30 January and the proposal is to conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U116	Thank you, Mrs Pikhof. You have questions too. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U117	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm a little confused about all the bill numbers and the formal part of this bill. On the substance, I understand that after a year of thinking, the government coalition has reached the same position as the Reform Party and has consolidated these drafts. But in a purely formal way: you talked about drafts 729 and 729 and also mentioned drafts 505. That 505 SE was then a draft of the Reform Party and a draft of 729 governments. Now the 799 SE on our desk is a completely new option. However, you were always talking about the original text of the bill. What did you mean by this original text: the draft of the Reform Party or the draft of the Government of the Republic? When we talk about the amendments, the amendments should be about a draft, and that is not what we have on this table today. Perhaps you will explain the whole situation: the proposals for amending which we are discussing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U118	The amendments are on the text of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U119	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The Committee on Culture discussed both drafts in the right number of sessions. The Estonian Student Association was against this bill. Would you give a little light to the reasons for their opposition in this Chamber? We discussed their explanations very thoroughly with them in the Commission. On what were they based, and what were they?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U121	I'll see if I can find it in the protocol. I found it! Marcus Ehasoo, representative of the Estonian Student Union, was also present at the meeting on 10 December. He pointed out that, in addition to students and school leaders, the Chancellor of Justice, which comes as a surprise, had a rather negative opinion on the draft. According to Ehasoo, the Estonian Student Association also met with representatives of the Police and Border Guard Board, who also expressed the opinion that the draft does not contribute to ensuring the safety of the school. One of the police's arguments is that school leaders are not sufficiently aware of the possibilities of cooperating with the police. Ehasoo said he understood the teachers' concerns about what happened at Paalalinna School, but the main point of view of the Ministry of Education and Research is that the draft is not related to this case and that it is referring to the safety of the school in general. Ehasoo felt that even if the principal target group of the draft, or teachers, did not want to create a police standard in the schoolroom, but to feel safe and have the right to intervene for emergency protection, the child protection law should be specified. According to Marcus Ehasoo, students are in favour of improving the safety of the school environment in other ways than by law, which gives one of the interest groups greater rights in the school. He also spoke of bullying at school. According to Ehasoo, the school mainly has fights and, if a cold weapon is involved, it is mostly from the school environment, not specifically taken with it. He says they're forgetting there's gotta be cooperation between the school and the police. He also stressed that the students felt that the problem was caused only by bullying at school. Students have set out to reduce school bullying and want to improve the safety of the school environment by doing so. These were the reasons that the student representative brought to the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U122	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U123	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There was certainly also talk in the Commission about whether we could move in the future so that this competence, which should be provided either by separate training or by continuing training for teachers, could become an integral part of teacher training. But it's gonna take a while before that happens. Would you describe in more detail how this competence is now being acquired? I mean, part of the school staff. And secondly, can it be that the headmaster and the responsible person determine these rights for all teachers in their entire collective when they see that they have the necessary skills to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U124	As far as training is concerned, yes, it was discussed at the Commission meeting. A representative of the Ministry of Education and Research stated that their aim is not to develop a specific training programme. It is important that individuals have the necessary preparation for the application of sanctions. This may have been achieved through appropriate training, prior practical work or other means. The key skills of teacher work, such as reaching contact with students, the ability to control your emotions and behaviour, negotiating and discussion skills, understanding the behaviour of the student, including behaviour due to special needs or age-appropriate reactions, and so on. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, it is difficult to achieve these characteristics by participating in specific existing or emerging training. As such characteristics are generally achieved in the course of education, training and vocational training, their existence can be assessed primarily by a direct manager. The Ministry of Education and Research, through the Foundation Innove, ensures that training topics offered to educational institutions include training courses with security-enhancing outcomes. It offers the possibility for school staff to acquire the skills needed to solve specific cases. As I said before, guidance material will be developed for schools to apply the sanctions proposed in the draft. As regards the implementation of these measures, it is not mandatory to name the persons who carry out the search. This may be done by the Director himself, but he may also grant it to someone else. Not for the whole school collective.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U125	Hanno Pevkur, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U126	Thank you. I will continue my question before I ask you. The fact that the Committee on Culture has brought here the attached draft, I understand. But was it also discussed in the Committee on Culture that the draft Group of the Reform Party, on which amendments could be tabled, would be discussed? I read in this title that this bill is initiated by the Reform Party Group and the Government of the Republic. We did not initiate them together, the Reform Party initiated a separate draft. Was it under discussion in the Committee on Culture that maybe these two drafts should have been rejected at first reading, both the draft of the Government of the Republic and the draft of the Reform Party? The Committee on Culture could then have initiated its own draft. In my opinion, there has been some confusion, as the draft number 799 has never been at first reading in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu; it has come directly to second reading. This confusion, in my opinion, is too much and it does not make sense that it says 'the draft of the Reform Party', if our draft is not at all under discussion here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U127	Thank you. In the Committee on Culture, we have discussed both the draft of the Reform Party and the draft of the Government of the Republic. If we look at this explanatory memorandum, we will see that it is written here: the Committee on Culture discussed draft 729 after the first reading twice and the combined draft 799 once and decided to make ten amendments to the draft. Let's just say that both initiators agreed to merge the drafts, two drafts were merged and a new number was placed on the document.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U128	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U129	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! With regard to this competence, competence to be a controller, or a person who is legally entitled to do so, should this competence be described in any way in the teachers' professional standard? Has this been mentioned? Does the draft or explanatory memorandum deal with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U130	Thank you for your question. I think the director will see who has greater prerequisites and better skills to perform such an operation, and that's what he's based on. You don't have to write down a search ability in a professional standard.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U131	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U132	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! The Group of the Estonian Free Party supported the draft law initiated by the Estonian Reform Party, the major aim of which was the same as today's second-reading draft: to ensure the safety of the school, without creating any advantages for one or the other party. Merging the two drafts was to a large extent the desire of both originators, particularly because the resulting law would still serve a great purpose, so that in our schools it would be good and safe for children and teachers, as well as education leaders, not to worry about it. It is true that the Estonian Student Association saw a number of problems in the draft law that was initiated. In particular, they felt that one side of the study, and the students considered teachers as one side, was granted a right that teachers could use with too easy a hand. This violates the general mood, domestic peace, and balance at school. The representative of the Estonian Student Association also said that the school must be able to be a place of its own nature, its own assessments and attitudes, where it is not necessary to implement such extreme measures at all. But we live in a time when the culture of behavior changes. The students have clearly set the goal that the school must be safe, but the danger may arise from one small move. The whole concept of our education system and school is inclusive education. At the same time, we have not been able to secure the necessary level of implementation of this inclusive education with support specialists and support teachers. We are in a situation where we want the best, but the outside atmosphere, the whole world that is changing very quickly and in a very unexpected way, can also create situations in schools for which they are not ready. This draft certainly does not move in the direction that the school now becomes a control authority. This small draft should, above all, help to ensure that our teachers, trainers, can perform their greatest task in a calm manner and that those with whom they work are able to feel safe and protected against all incidents that arise. On the other hand, this draft is by its very nature only the first stage in modernising the education system, while making it more secure and certainly more cultural. So this is a small step forward, which must actually be ensured, as Mr Alender pointed out very well with his questions, by teacher training. So teacher training maybe after the adoption of this bill will change a little. In order for this law to really improve school life as expected, teacher training must be reviewed in such a way as to enable the teacher to be a schoolmaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U133	Thank you, Mr A. Since there are no more callers, I will close the negotiations. In order to amend the draft, the commission has put forward ten proposals, and for all of them it is proposed that they be fully taken into account. But let's go through them. Amendment 1, Amendment 2, Amendment 3, Amendment 4, Amendment 5, Amendment 6, Amendment 7, Amendment 8, Amendment 9 and Amendment 10. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 799. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U134	We are going to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on covered bonds initiated by the Government of the Republic, 760. Please, Mr. Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I am pleased to introduce a very good draft. This time, as the chairman of the meeting said, it is the second reading of the Penal Code. I recall that this draft gives credit institutions the opportunity to issue covered bonds, which is one of the different types of bonds. Bonds are covered bonds secured by high-quality claims on borrowers by credit institutions. In general, these are claims arising from mortgages or loans granted to the public sector. Examples include housing loans, which is a very solid guarantee. The purpose of the draft is to develop capital markets in Estonia. We are creating new opportunities here, increasing financial stability, creating an additional instrument for Estonian credit institutions to raise capital in the money markets, and enhancing the credit market by increasing the ability of credit borrowers to obtain funding in the context of the financial and economic crisis. When the draft had been initiated by the government, the Committee on Monetary Affairs referred again, just in case, to 15 interest groups for further views. Of the respondents, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Eesti Pank expressed their support for the draft. The Chamber of bailiffs and Bankruptcy Administrators proposed that, in addition to audit firms, bailiffs also be allowed to perform the functions of reviewer provided for in the Penalty Act. This proposal was not supported by the originator, as the tasks of the reviewer are quite specific and substantial. Therefore, the performance of such specific tasks is only appropriate for an audit firm that is able to set up a multi-person team. Conditions for becoming bailiffs, including educational requirements, are incompatible with those of the reviewer. So the commission didn't change the draft. There were no proposals from Members or political groups by the deadline for amendments. However, changes were made by the commission together with the Ministry of Finance, with a total of 12 amendments. It has to be said that they are more complementary and precise than very substantive. For example, Amendments 1, 3 and 11 specify whether certain rules should be laid down in the issuer's internal rules, the Financial Supervision Authority's guidelines or the Ministerial Regulation. Amendment 8 regulates more specifically a situation where several persons, such as spouses, have jointly taken several loans under the same mortgage guarantee. The amendment allows such loans to be used as collateral for covered bonds in the same way as a single party would have taken the loan. Amendment 12 makes it more flexible the transitional provision governing the valuation of collateral for loans included in the collateral assets of covered bonds. Indeed, the requirements for the valuation of real estate have been different over time and the current requirements cannot be applied retroactively, for example, to the valuation that took place seven years ago. The amendment aims to ensure that the underlying assets of covered bonds can also include older mortgage loans whose collateral has been legally assessed in accordance with the requirements in force at the relevant time. The Commission raised a question as to the obligations of the bank issuing the covered bonds vis-à-vis the buyers of the covered bond and, consequently, the protection of the rights of other creditors and depositors in a situation where the cover of the covered bonds is not sufficient to meet the obligations of the parties acquiring the covered bonds. Here we are thinking of a situation where collateral assets are not enough to satisfy the claims of investors in the covered bond. For example, the value of collateral may be EUR 80 million, but the holders of covered bonds should be paid out EUR 100 million. In such a case, the so-called covered bond portfolio will first be in bankruptcy proceedings, during which the existing covered bond will be distributed among the investors. For the rest of this example, EUR 20 million will be available to investors of the covered bond to claim claims under the bank's normal bankruptcy procedure. The rights of other creditors and depositors are protected by the fact that, in normal bankruptcy proceedings, investors of the covered bond no longer have priority rights, i.e. their claims are in line with other creditors of the bankruptcy and receive proportionate compensation from the bank's general bankruptcy assets. It should also be noted that the Penalty Act has no effect on the guarantee of deposits through the Guarantee Fund, i.e. depositors still have this additional guarantee. We avoid a situation where the inadequacy of collateral becomes apparent too late. In the first instance, the collateral manager must determine whether the underlying asset will meet all the requirements of the investors of the covered bond after the assignment of the covered bond portfolio. Before our first reading, the Commission also raised the question of whether the interests of mortgage borrowers are protected and who are standing up for these interests in the debate on the draft. I have already mentioned this at first reading that in reality there is no such specific institution in Estonia that stands up for the creditors of the mortgage loan. It is the Ministry of Justice and Finance. And these debts still remain tied to the bank: even if the covered bonds move elsewhere, the borrower still has a relationship with the bank. The Commission took account of the amendments proposed by the Ministry of Finance as they had been negotiated with both the banks and the Financial Supervision Authority. There is a proposal to conclude the second reading and, if the second reading should end today, the third reading could take place next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U136	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Was there a discussion in the Commission, or do you simply have an understanding of the interest of credit institutions in these covered bonds? What might be the foreseeable feasibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U138	Thank you. It is difficult to predict, but the hope is that, since our financial market is rather monopolistic, perhaps these new opportunities will still be used. It's creating new opportunities, isn't it? Our task is rather to create opportunities, but whether credit institutions will use them was not specifically mentioned in the Commission. And we also do not know in concrete terms any bank that, if we adopt this law, will immediately prepare some steps. But I'm not gonna rule that out either.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U139	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. There are 12 proposals to amend the draft, all submitted by the commission and the position taken for all to take full account of them. But let us examine them: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth, the seventh, the eighth, the ninth, the tenth, the eleventh, the twelfth. We have examined the amendments to draft 760. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U140	We go to item No 8, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please speak to Uno Kaskpeiti, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U141	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, So let's go to the second reading of Bill 759, the Code of Civil Procedure and the Bill of Amendment of Other Laws. A little process in the lead committee between first and second readings. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 19 November last year. The first reading took place on 12 December at the end of last year. The deadline for submitting amendments was 3 January. No proposals from the Riigikogu were submitted within the deadline for submitting amendments. On 3 January, the Estonian Bar Association issued an opinion on the draft, in which it asked that the provisions concerning the amendment of § 13 and 14 of the Code of Enforcement Procedure be deleted from the draft. According to the Bar Association, these changes would disproportionately affect the property rights of the non-debted spouse. There were also doubts as to whether the restrictions on the right to appeal proposed in the Code of Civil Procedure were necessary and fit for purpose. No other opinions or suggestions on the draft were received. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading at its meeting on 24 January. Stella Johanson, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, took part in the meeting. The representatives of the Estonian Bar Association did not consider participation necessary. The author's representative Stella Johanson explained that the Ministry of Justice does not agree with the opinion of the Estonian Bar Association. He was of the opinion that there was no need to amend the draft. In his view, all the provisions of the draft are purposeful, essentially well-considered and do not disproportionately affect anyone's fundamental rights. The members of the Committee on Legal Affairs also did not express their wish to amend the draft, which is why the draft will be submitted to second reading unchanged. The procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee are as follows: The Committee on Legal Affairs decided at its meeting on 24 January to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 30 January, which is then today. The proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is completed, to refer the draft to a third reading by 20 February and then to a final vote. The majority of the Riigikogu's membership is required for the adoption of the draft act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U142	Thank you, Mr Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs. You have questions, too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. You noted that the Estonian Bar Association gave its opinion and this opinion was quite fundamental, drawing attention to a number of problems. The Ministry of Justice issued a counter-opinion. Did the Commission discuss the opinions of both parties in substance, and why did the Commission in particular tend to support the opinion of the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U144	But because a representative of the Ministry of Justice was present and explained the position of the Ministry. The representatives of the Bar did not hesitate to attend, so they did not consider it necessary to stand up for their positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U145	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 759. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U146	We are going to the ninth item on today's agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Prisons Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please speak to Mrs Vilja Toomas, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U147	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On 22 August 2018, the Government of the Republic initiated a draft Act amending the Prisons Act. The draft essentially deals with two issues. First, the access of detainees to legal databases, the register of judicial decisions, the website of the Riigikogu and the website of the Chancellor of Justice, then under the supervision of the prison service. The second issue concerns the resolution of events threatening the security and order of the prison. The draft passed the first reading in the large Chamber on 24 October 2018 and the deadline for amendments, and no proposals were tabled by 7 November. The bar Association was also involved in the draft procedure, and no suggestions were received from it either. The Commission discussed the preparation for the second reading at two meetings, on 24 January and 28 January. In addition to the members of the committee on 24 January, Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, Julia Antonova, Adviser to the same service, Mirjam Rannula, Adviser to the Office of Public Law, Marmo Luik, Head of the Web Project of the Information Technology Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and Jaan Jänesmäe, Head Specialist. The main topic of this sitting was, in fact, the dispute over the technological implementation of the changes planned by the draft. Our Legal Affairs Committee advisor Carina Rikart informed us that on 10 January representatives of the State Chancellery, the Ministry of Justice and the Registries and Information Systems Centre had held a meeting, arguing, among other things, about what is meant by the Riigikogu website. I forgot to say that this bill also introduces the right of the prisoner to access only legislation on the Internet. Communication on the Internet must be blocked. In order to be able to comply with this provision, the officials of the Ministry and the Riigikogu understood how to implement such a restriction. As a result of the discussion, the Commission decided that these restrictions should be implemented by the Registries and Information Systems Centre, but the Riigikogu could assist and map the electronic communication sections on the Riigikogu website. That was the main point of debate in this hearing. The Commission has decided to make some amendments for the next sitting, but at this sitting we have already taken decisions on the future procedure: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 30 January, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to third reading by 13 February and to hold a final vote on that day. All these decisions were taken by consensus. And, as I said, after the debate and the debate, the Commission found that some changes were needed. We also discussed this draft at the meeting on 28 January, where we decided to make three amendments. The first amendment amends the title of the draft. The contents of the draft act concern not only the Internet access of prisoners, but also the resolution of an event that threatens the security and order of the prison. With the second amendment, we want to resolve the issue of who must be responsible for ensuring that the detainees have access to certain information. We have formulated this amendment in such a way that 'intentions are denied access to a part of the website that allows electronic communication'. That explains who has the responsibility. An example was given that if, for example, there is a traffic restriction of 30 km/h, the policeman does not have to sit around each such road sign and see if the drivers are keeping up with the speed limit. It is the duty of the driver if it is forbidden to drive at 30 km/h, and he himself is responsible for it. A primitive example, but so it is best to apply this restriction. It is precisely the prisoner who is obliged to comply with the requirements of the Prisoner Act, and disciplinary sanctions may be imposed on the prisoner for the violation. The third amendment concerns the deadline for the implementation of this law. We discussed at length what technological changes or technical applications need to be made in order to meet the requirement that the inmate should not be able to develop any communication via the Internet. The Commission decided to propose a third amendment so that this law would enter into force on 1 August 2019. And the Commission, at this meeting on 28 January, maintained its earlier procedural decisions, which I have already reported to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U148	Thank you, honourable waitress, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Vilja Toomas. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. Three amendments have been tabled, all of which are from the lead committee and fully taken into account. But let us review them: Amendment 1, Amendment 2 and Amendment 1. 3. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 680. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U149	We will go to the tenth item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Belarus, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Please speak to Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Belarus brings before you a social security agreement signed between Estonia and Belarus on 7 December 2018. Its entry into force requires ratification of the Treaty by both countries and the expiry of the standstill period provided for in the Treaty. The Agreement shall enter into force on the seventh month following the date of exchange of the instruments of ratification. The six-month period is intended to prepare the implementation of the Agreement. So we have planned that the agreement will enter into force in January 2020. What does this social security agreement guarantee? First, it guarantees a pension in a situation where people have worked both in Estonia and Belarus, but they do not have the minimum pension period required by either country. Estonia is known to require 15 years of retirement and in Belarus men have 25 years of retirement and 20 years of retirement. The retirement age in Belarus is 60 years for men and 55 for women. For example, if a person has worked in Estonia for 10 years and worked in Belarus for 15 years, it is possible to combine the classes of both countries on the basis of the agreement. This gives people the right to both pensions, while each half calculates the pension only for the so-called period. For this purpose, the amount of the theoretical pension that a person would have worked in a single country throughout his or her working life shall be calculated first and adjusted according to the number of years actually worked. Secondly, this agreement guarantees the payment of pensions in another Contracting State, i.e. the export of pensions. Estonia already ensures exports of pensions worldwide under national law, but this applies provided that a person has earned a minimum retirement age of 15 years. Pensions calculated for the period of less work for people living in Belarus under the contract. Belarus does the same for people living in Estonia. In general, Belarus does not pay pensions outside its own country on the basis of its national law, but on the basis of an agreement. And the third thing: the agreement guarantees payment of labour payments only in one Contracting State. This avoids double taxation for postings and work in two countries. In the case of secondments, the payment shall be made in the country of dispatch and, in the case of two-country employment, in the country of residence of the person. Under the contract, old-age pensions and survivors' pensions are paid as well as preferential pensions governed by different laws. Other payments and benefits are not included in this contract. It should also be noted that the ratification of the Treaty by the composition of this Riigikogu is important because it accelerates the realisation of people's pension rights. As has been said, the agreement will not enter into force immediately, but only in six months' time. The current government has approved the agreement. If the current composition of the Riigikogu cannot ratify this agreement, then you must go to the new government for approval. This will probably also be achieved, but it will postpone the date of entry into force and extend the entire ratification process, which is not in the interests of our people. How big is this target group that this agreement concerns? In forecasting under other agreements and compared to, for example, Ukraine, we expect that in the first year, in 2020, the target population could be around 100 people, but in the future it will probably grow. We have estimated that the cost of paying pensions could be around EUR 274000 in the first year of entry into force. But, of course, everything depends on how many people will benefit from this agreement. I hope that the Riigikogu will be quick and effective in ratifying this Treaty and will help people to get their earned pension in the part that is foreseen in both countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U151	Thank you, Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva. You have at least one question. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U152	Thank you. Madam Minister! I looked at the explanatory statement and saw that the people of Belarus who live in Estonia are ten and a half thousand. But do we have any idea how many of our countrymen live in Belarus? How many of our people are affected by the sections you were talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U153	At this point in time, we do not have a clear overview of how many Estonian people live in Belarus. This forecast of how many such pension beneficiaries could be, for the time being, concerns only those people who are already in retirement age. There are 100-150 of them now, and perhaps not everyone will be asking for a pension in the first year because they are not aware of this agreement. All of this will probably take some time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U154	No further questions for you. Thank you. Please speak to Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Monika Haukanõmme.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U155	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The preparation for the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Belarus was held at a meeting on 21 January. The bill was introduced by Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva, just as she did here. He was supported and answered by Leili Eenlo, head of cross-border social security at the Ministry of Social Affairs. Since the Minister has already taken stock of the substance of the draft, I will not be able to clarify that. Of course, the discussion of the agreement in the members of the Social Committee of the Riigikogu raised some questions and I will give you a brief overview of them. Maris Lauri wanted to know what would happen if a person worked in Belarus for five years. Whether Belarus will pay him for this period and Estonia, for example, for only 10 years. In other words, how to deal with the 15-year period requirement that applies to us in Estonia. And does the settlement take place between countries, or does the prescribed amount be transferred to the person's account? Leili Eenlo explained that all periods would be aggregated and that each country would calculate its share on the basis of a given formula. The so-called pro rata principle is used, which means that each country pays a pension to the creditor in proportion to the time worked in the country. This is based on a specific period of pension insurance. There is an agreement with Belarus that money will not be transferred directly to a person's account. The pension is paid through the competent institution of the other party to the contract, i.e. the State. Countries exchange amounts of money for which offsetting is made at the end of the year. So Belarus transfers money to the Estonian state and the Estonian state transfers money to a legitimate person. Maris Lauri also asked that the economic and political situation in Belarus is what it is: unstable. What happens if the money is no longer transferred at one point and no netting comes? Leili Eenlo explained that on the basis of this agreement, the Estonian state will not take over the commitments of Belarus, but will pay out the money that Belarus will send. If the Belarusian state fails to pay money, unfortunately, the human being will be deprived of his or her pension. There will be no assumption of obligations under this agreement. Jüri Jaanson noted that we have concluded such classic social security agreements here before, this is not the first time. In this respect, he wanted to know whether there were any fundamental differences between the Belarus Agreement and the other equivalent agreements. He also raised the issue of posted workers and work in two countries. There are no differences in our response to the classic pension insurance agreement. If you work in two countries, the tax is paid in the country where the person lives. The same principle applies to posted workers as throughout the European Union: payments may be made in their home country for a period of 24 months. Mr Oudekki Loone took part in the meeting of the Commission as an alternate member, who stated that if a person is posted abroad, the legislation of the country of posting shall apply for a period of 24 months. At the same time, the European Union's directive will have a shorter period of 18 months. The question was why the decision was made in favour of the longer term, and whether this means that if people are sent from Belarus to Estonia, then for two years posted workers will work under the Belarusian law. Leili Eenlo replied that this issue should be looked at in the complex with the area of application. This agreement applies only to pensions and social security contributions and 24 months are provided for in the Social Security Coordination Regulation. The European Parliament's proposal is to shorten it to 18 months, as is the case with the directive. However, this is essentially two different things: one is how to calculate wages and working conditions, and the other is how long to pay taxes. In addition, Oudekki Loone said that the Estonian state could have set a good example and agreed on 18 months. He wanted to know why they didn't do it. In response, we have found that, in the case of social security contributions, the regulation talks about 24 months, not 18 months, and Member States cannot harmonise it. This proposal has come from the European Parliament, but no agreement has been reached in this regard. Chairman of the committee Helmen Kütt took an interest in the payment of national pensions. What about whether or not national pensions are transferable to another country? His more precise question was what about people who have not worked for 15 years but have moved from one country to another. According to Leili Eenlo, people's pensions fall within the scope of application of the Treaty, but the agreement provides that a national pension is not paid to another country, or to a person residing in another country, i.e. it is not exported. That was the overview of our debate at the Commission meeting on 21 January. We also made procedural decisions. The following decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 30 January, i.e. today (the decision was consensual), to propose that the second reading be closed (consensus), and to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 7 February 2019 (and consensus), and to appoint Monika Haukanõm (including consensus) as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U156	Thank you, Monika Haukanõm, Vice-President of the Commission. You have at least one question. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! With which other countries are such agreements planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U158	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, I have to answer now in a way that I don't like at all, maybe we didn't discuss it. I'm afraid that's the case. And I do not have an answer to this question right now, but since there are also Commission staff and the Minister in the Chamber, I have a request to examine with which countries such an agreement is still to be concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U159	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 790. First reading is over. I will set the deadline of 790 amendments, including 7 February at 5.15 p.m. Let's go to item 11, which is... I'm sorry! Yes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U160	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am happy to answer the question that has just been raised here. Estonia currently has social security agreements with Russia, Canada, Moldova, Ukraine and Australia. Negotiations are currently under way, linked to the reform of working capacity, to amend existing agreements with Moldova, Ukraine, Russia and Canada. The negotiations on amendments to the Agreement between Russia and Canada have essentially ended and will be prepared for their signature. So I believe that the new composition of the Riigikogu will be discussed by the second semester. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U161	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your clarifications.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U162	We go to the 11th item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft Riigikogu's decision 'Principals of Public Policy until 2035', submitted by the Parliament's Problem Committee for the resolution of the population crisis. I invite Siret Kotka-Repinski, Chairman of the Committee on Problems set up by the Riigikogu for the resolution of the population crisis, to give a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You all know that Estonia's population is decreasing. As current trends continue, by the end of the 21st century, barely 800000 people live in Estonia. That is too little to go on with our current system of things. Even if we are able to increase the productivity of our economy and maintain our standard of living in this population, we are still facing major changes. This is the population crisis: not the acute visible phenomenon of one or two years, after which there will be a perceived tide, but a period of recession that will have a severe impact on our lives. The task of the problem committee for the population crisis was to analyse and propose measures to address this crisis. This means nothing less than measures to preserve Estonian nationality, language and culture. This is not a small task, given the small size of our committee and the limited resources of the Commission, but since the future of the people matters to so many people, I can say with confidence that we stood up to our task. We were able to mobilise more than 40 scientists, officials and stakeholders with the Commission in order to draw up 'Principles of National Policy until 2035' on the basis of the best available knowledge. How, then, can we prepare for the low season? One or two simple tricks are clearly not enough. 'Principles of public policy until 2035' is the first comprehensive document that has ever been written in Estonia concerning processes affecting the population. However, if we fail to implement a comprehensive population policy, the impact of the document will remain occasional. It's like building a dam to protect the tide: if we don't build half a dam, the water will still drain. One more comment on this document. The fundamentals of this are not the development plan of one ministry, but a document covering all areas of life. It is a document that forces all ministries to take into account the impact of their activities on the Estonian population in their development plans. The future of the population depends on four important components: birth rate, mortality, migration and empowerment. Next, I will introduce to you the main messages that we have presented in the 'Principals of People's Policy until 2035'. First of all, in an attempt to increase the birth rate, we are based on the belief that, unlike many other dying nations, Estonian people still want to have children. It is therefore our task to reduce the difference between the number of children we want and the number of children actually born. This does not only mean saving families from poverty, as it aims at a well-designed and appropriate development plan for the Ministry of Social Affairs, but we are actually taking a step further. It is necessary to create the best environment for those who want to become mothers and fathers by means of universal measures. These measures include housing allowance, flexible and close-home childcare, child benefit, which is progressing according to the number of children, and an increase in the participation of both parents. Secondly, when we talk about mortality, we have formulated the main objective of increasing the number of healthy years of life. There is also a need to introduce and continue to support a whole set of measures, many of which have been included in the social development plan. One of the greatest challenges is to support people's mental health and psychological well-being. It is quite certain that the cause of death number one is primarily the wrong decisions of people themselves in Estonia. Overeating and drinking, excessive use of substances of all kinds, lack of exercise, stress, depression, road deaths, suicides and overdoses, these are phenomena on which we are clearly at the forefront of European countries. And all these are primarily the consequences of spiritual problems. We need to help people make decisions that are less damaging to themselves. We must offer help to cope with today's difficult and intense life. This requires making all forms of psychological assistance much more accessible from the preparation of psychologists at the university and by the fact that each school student must be able to seek advice from a psychologist. Also, older people in Estonia, including more depression than in other European Union countries, must be able to talk to psychologists and psychiatrists if necessary. And these conversations must be pleasant and provide them with developmental activities. Three. It is quite clear that in today's world, people are moving more and more across national borders. There is even talk of the end of tourism, because it is no longer possible to distinguish between fun and travel. We know that hundreds of thousands of our countrymen live outside Estonia, and therefore the fundamentals have emphasised the need for a multinational policy. Our goal must be to maintain diverse ties with our compatriots living outside Estonia. This does not just mean supporting Estonian choirs, although it is also very important, because cultural communication often creates a prerequisite for more. It also means maintaining and developing business-to-business links, i.e. youth exchanges and traineeship programmes, i.e. language learning. These ties are necessary for the people of Estonia to participate in Estonia's life regardless of where they live. These links are also necessary so that we can make our administrative systems more suitable for returnees. For example, so that a family moving from abroad to Estonia can put their children in a school near home. Speaking of school, we have also addressed integration in the chapter on multinationals. This point should be appreciated by those who fear the loss or loss of Estonian culture. We must reach a situation in the future where we have a common Estonian kindergarten and a common Estonian school. Estonia is here with a big star. It must be possible for everyone in their own language to learn their own culture, but it must also be possible to communicate in Estonian. Otherwise, parallel cultures, not Estonian culture, will continue to develop here. Four. As I said at the outset, we will in any case be faced with changes in the way things are organized. Our population will be declining and ageing long before the measures in these fundamentals are finally expected to have an impact and the population curve will continue to curve upwards. This means that at a time of population decline, each person is becoming more and more valuable. It is therefore vital that we pay more attention to empowering people, based on a comprehensive talent policy that involves life-long formal and non-formal learning. Talent is not just Arvo Pärt, everyone has a gift. And the gift must be found, supported and developed. We don't know how to compose a symphony born here, but we're all able to learn something. We see what a race is going on in the world for the discovery and development of our talents. We shouldn't be last in this race. In developing talent policies, we must bear in mind that education and the social sphere will increasingly integrate in the future. Project-based work and automation lead us to a situation where people often need to re-learn. This means that it must be possible to rely painlessly on a social safety net during the periods in which retraining takes place. This means that education and social policy need to be increasingly integrated. This is a brief overview of the emphasis on the fundamentals of population policy. These four major parts consist of the bulwark we have to build for the low-population period. Population processes take time and are measured not in years but in generations. Therefore, we cannot offer any miracle cure that will change tomorrow. However, we must act now, because otherwise it will not be for generations to come. I very much hope that this Riigikogu will go down in history by saying: 'So far, and no further! 'The fundamentals of public policy until 2035 create the assumption that we will be able to reverse the population tide as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U164	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. There's a question for you too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U165	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The subject is very serious. We all say it has to be dealt with. My first question concerns precisely this year 2035. Why did you select 2035 as the time of the end of the document on the fundamentals of population policy, not, for example, 2050? You also spoke in your report about the recession ahead. Doesn't that 'until 2035' be a little short on this background?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U166	Thank you, that is a very good question! The year 2035 seems, in some ways, to be a distant time, but in some ways a close time. This year's number was actually born in collaboration between scientists and representatives of different interest groups. It was found that there should be a year far enough away, but a tangible ambition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U167	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U168	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! It is none of my business to exhort a more experienced colleague, but is it really in your document that you are dealing with substances of pleasure and not with drugs of mind? And do you understand what the difference is when you talk about drugs or mind poisons?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U169	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U170	Krista Aru, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! One generation lasts 25 years. We are 2019 and we analyse these processes and prepare the basics until 2035. I suspect, however, that there is too little time until 2035. But my question is, in fact, that this document has been presented as a draft decision. If the Riigikogu now votes and adopts it, how do you think this decision will be implemented? What's supposed to happen? We're gonna have a new government. How would this decision be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U172	Thank you. It's a Riigikogu decision. I know that there will be very active development plans and strategies in the coming periods. In principle, this means that, whether it be social policy, education policy or economic policy, before a development plan or strategy is drawn up, it should be based on 'Principles of national policy until 2035' and look at what objectives and trends it sets and what solutions it proposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U173	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U174	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! How is it, however, stated in your document? Like you said, pleasures?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U175	I'll see. I don't think it's more like that. [[Browse papers.]] I don't think I'd rather be, but I'm not looking for it right now. And my speech was made not by express wording of the fundamentals, but by the feelings that had arisen in drawing up the fundamentals. That's where the emphasis is.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U176	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! Last week, the newspapers say that mothers are upset that they have lost money because of changing the maternity pay system. Maybe this is just another example of the tax loss we've been making. Do you think that this unstable situation may have an impact on the birth rate in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U178	We have made it very clear in this document that when it comes to parental benefit, we applaud the parental benefit system and say that parental benefit must keep up with time and be flexible. All the mistakes that have arisen must be corrected and moved along. So we would rather stress that parental benefit must be kept flexible and made even more human-friendly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U179	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you. Viktor Vassilyev, Member of the Committee on Social Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U180	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, the draft decision 779 procedure in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. It was precisely the Social Affairs Committee that dealt with this draft. We discussed the basic principles of the Riigikogu's decision 'Policy of the People's Policy until 2035' at two sessions: 14 January and 22 January. A representative of the initiator of the draft was also present at the meetings. First of all, at the meeting on 14 January, the draft decision of the Riigikogu was presented to the Commission 779. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee pointed out that the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted to the Commission did not meet the formal requirements of the draft decision of the Riigikogu and proposed to contact the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu for an opinion. This opinion was also received. We were asked to shorten the document. The argument that the draft does not comply with the formal requirements was simply based on the fact that the draft was too long. The fundamentals of past policies have been somewhat shorter documents. So the corresponding drafting proposals were made. The Commission was also asked how the proposed document would improve the current situation. The opinion was expressed that, as far as social matters are concerned, there is nothing in the draft decision that the Committee on Social Affairs would not have already dealt with to one degree or another. Indeed, 'The fundamentals of public policy until 2035' is a very comprehensive document covering a wide range of issues dealt with by both the Committee on Social Affairs and other committees. Now everyone's put together a single document. It was also thought that the opinion should be sought from other committees, at least from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Culture. At its meeting on 22 January, the debate on the draft decision was resumed and then procedural decisions were taken. So, our procedural decisions. The Committee on Social Affairs made the following decisions in a completely consensual manner: first, to send the draft to the first reading by 30 January, to propose that the first reading be completed and to set a deadline of 10 days for the amendments. The last decision was to appoint Mr Viktor Vassilyev as rapporteur for the Commission, who is in front of you now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U181	The members of the Riigikogu have no questions, but I have as the Chairman of the Riigikogu. As I am obliged to sign the laws and decisions adopted by the Riigikogu, I ask: will your cooperation with the Legal and Analytical Department continue? So that I know what I will sign if the House approves this document. I'm afraid I don't understand it right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U182	Yes, I can assure you that cooperation should continue. This, however, must be asked by the chairman of the committee, because this is precisely the piece of work he is organising.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-30_U183	Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of draft decision 779 is closed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 13 February. Closure of the sitting at 5.01 p.m.
