ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U1	Good morning, Reverend Riigikogu. As usual, we will also start the first Tuesday session of the IX plenary session by handing over drafts and enquiries. That's not what you want. Requesting presence check! 69 parliamentarians will attend the meeting in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U2	Today's first item is the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, 'Proposaling the Government of the Republic to use euro grants more efficiently and regionally balanced' 761. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words from the procedure. The report by the drafter shall be no more than 20 minutes, the presentation by the representative of the commission shall be of the same length. Each member of the Riigikogu can put an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs, and the delegates of the political groups and committees take the floor in the negotiations. The final vote is different because a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the decision. Let's start the procedure. A member of the Riigikogu, Andres Herkel, will perform with the presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am quite grateful for this introduction, because it is indeed such a proposal to the Government of the Republic, which would certainly have a positive effect on Estonia's regional development and the use of the European Union's structural funds. However, as such proposals tend to be here, if the members of the Riigikogu do not come to vote in the Chamber, the proposals will be allowed to fail passively, because 51 votes are needed for the proposal to find support. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that indifference to such a draft decision essentially means opposition. I think that making better use of the European Union's Structural Funds in Estonia should be a common goal for all of us. This is why these funds are meant to ensure that development is balanced and reduces regional disparities. What is happening to Estonia is, which in itself is positive, that with our average gross domestic product we are beginning to rise to such a high level in the European Union that we are moving from the so-called lower league to the middle league. Our gross domestic product will exceed or already exceed 75% of the European Union average for the next period. This is, of course, a pleasure. But in other ways, it places new conditions on the use of the European Union's Structural Funds, which means a significantly higher rate of self-financing, i.e. the full exploitation of these amounts will require a much higher proportion of our own national budget. In fact, there is one good way to solve this problem. This would require that we recognise that there are two different socio-economic regions in Estonia. There is Tallinn and its neighbouring area, which has developed, and practically all other Estonia, where both purchasing power and gross domestic product are all socio-economic indicators at a much lower level. And such an exception is allowed by the rules of the European Union. Unfortunately, our Ministry of Finance, our government, our country has not taken it seriously. Yes, we understand that the fact that our level of development really rises to 75% of the European Union's average was perhaps not very clearly predictable a few years ago, but it should have been foreseen. In our opinion, this is a case of serious downsizing the officials of the Ministry of Finance. I'll explain the subject again. When we joined the European Union in 2004, our GDP per capita was 32% of the European Union average. By 2016, it had risen to 59%, but according to the purchasing power standard on which the calculation is based, to 75%. Data from Statistics Estonia show that the average GDP per capita in Harjumaa exceeds the average level in the European Union, but in the rest of Estonia it is less than 60%. So the differences are quite large. The biggest differences prevail between Tallinn and Põlva County. And now we have to ask what these European Union Structural Funds are for. They are designed to reduce regional disparities, not only between the countries of the European Union, but also within the countries. Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states: "In order to promote its comprehensive harmonious development, the Union shall develop and implement measures to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion. In particular, the Union shall seek to harmonise the levels of development of the various regions and to reduce the backwardness of the most disadvantaged regions. ' In order to achieve these objectives, these are the five European Union Structural and Investment Funds (ESIF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the Cohesion Fund (CF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF), whose grants must be implemented. As far as the difference between the different categories of countries is concerned, indeed, if GDP per capita is below 75% of the European Union average, the funding will be that the European Union funds will cover 85% and our own contribution will be 15%. If we rise to the next level of development, this will mean for us that Estonia's own funding is already 45%. This is a very important difference. Now, what's the main counter argument? It is likely that the representative of the Commission will come up with this. It is a fact that there really has been a criterion in the European Union which says that if this conceptual division is to be made between territorial units, then there must be at least 800000 inhabitants in both regions. So this is a rule that has certainly been made for countries with a much higher population in the European Union. Most countries are bigger. However, as far as we know, this request for derogation has never been rejected. In time, even a country such as Luxembourg, whose population is significantly smaller than Estonia, has applied for this derogation. Therefore, in our view, there is no reason to claim that there is no exception, that is not possible. The main content of the proposal is the proposal to divide Estonia into two separate regions on the basis of the classification of the territorial units of Eurostat: the economically more developed city of Tallinn or agglomeration together with the surrounding municipalities is undoubtedly the one where the border runs exactly, and the rest of Estonia is discussed. In any case, it is not very difficult to prove that the level of socio-economic development in these two regions is different. And we have brought such a proposal before the Riigikogu. Once again, if the Riigikogu supports it, the Government of the Republic will receive a guideline here, and I think that ultimately the Estonian state will achieve quite a lot. Our country's fiscal position is improving, reducing its spending and reaching precisely the areas where it is most needed in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U4	Before starting the round of questions in any case, and just in case, I would remind you that it is possible to ask each of the rapporteurs an oral question, for example, in Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U5	Good Chairman! Good waitress! There are certainly great differences in Estonia, both between social groups and between regions. But my question is that, in my opinion, the differences are not just between two large regions. You said we had two socio-economic regions. Yesterday, we received an answer from the Minister for Public Administration, who referred to an industrial development survey. Four categories are distinguished: in the first group there are Tallinn and other Harjumaa, in the second group there are no counties, in the third group there are Tartu, Pärnu, Rapla, Lääne-Viru and Ida-Viru, and in the fourth group there are all the rest of Estonia. Why are we taking into account this two distributions? What's it based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U6	Thank you, Mr. Hallemaa. It is certainly possible to make more detailed breakdowns. And when you open the second page of our draft, you will see that the share of the country's GDP varies from one region to another. GDP per capita is several times higher in Harju County, especially in Tallinn than in Põlva County at the bottom of the line. In principle, each county forms a separate group. Four or even six categories can be distinguished if the figures are taken as a basis. However, the fact that we are talking about splitting into two in the context of the draft is due to the rules of the European Union is due to Eurostat's categories of territorial distribution. The so-called NUTS or nomenclature d'unités territoriales statisticiques has been established as such in the European Union and it is possible to distribute Estonia on the basis of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U7	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U8	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! Is there a small economic analysis behind your proposal? If divided in this way, can this still not be an obstacle to the required 800000? In one region, yes, there are at least 800000 inhabitants, in the other there aren't. Is there a legal view that it is worthwhile for us to work at all? Why don't you explain it a little bit? How much hope are we not doing a real job here?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U9	Thank you very much, Mr Põldaru. Well, first of all, if you don't try, there's never any hope. I have the impression that, although I myself was not in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the objections mainly focus on the legal starting point being the limit of 800000 inhabitants. In anticipation of the Commission's representative, I myself note that there is such a sentence in the Commission's minutes that the Ministry's Representation has consulted Eurostat, which agreed to this assessment. This estimate is as if the number of Estonian residents is 1.3 million and neither region will come out 800,000. If you go to consult with such a starting point, the fact is that, of course, we cannot get 800000 inhabitants on either side of Estonia. However, the experience we know is that exceptions have not been refused, not even in the case of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U10	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U11	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Honourable waitress! First of all, it is gratifying that you are working on this subject. In any case, such analyses must be carried out and prospects assessed. But you've dealt with this in depth. Lithuania, as we know, has undertaken this process, but they started much earlier. Experience from other countries is important. Is there any prospects for Lithuania to do this sharing over the period 2021/2027? And how much could a Lithuanian country as a whole benefit from this? As far as I know, they're gonna win. Maybe you have some more specific information on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U12	Thank you, Mr. Sõerd. I don't have any specific information. If anyone's done this in depth, that man's name is Kaul Nurm, not me. But we do know that Lithuania has begun to apply for this exception. I assume that if Estonia has been estimated at around half a billion euros or even more in different estimates, then Lithuania will have a second order of magnitude, probably a much bigger victory. But that's more of a guess. It is true that they began to apply for this distinction earlier. Indeed! And that is the question to our politicians, our official body at the Ministry of Finance, why Estonia has not done so. If there is now an objection that there will be no more time for the 2021-2027 period, then something has been missed. There is an optimistic plan in our draft so that we can try, and in that case we should start now. There's no time to wait a week, practically. Should the Riigikogu approve this draft decision today, the process should start in essence this week.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U13	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, This table is, of course, effective on page 2 of the explanatory memorandum, which shows the figures for the gross domestic product of the counties in 2016. Here's my question. I'm sure you've thought this through on a practical level. What exactly are you talking about? Is it just more money? just change the order in this table, the layout of the counties? What currently prevents these European funds from investing more in remote counties, where gross domestic product figures are much worse than in Tallinn and Harju County, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U15	Thank you. Basically, nothing's stopping you. This money can also be channelled to remote counties, except that there is still a very important difference in these rules, whether it is directed somewhere with a 15% self-financing by the Estonian state or 45%. We are already losing half a billion national budget money on these self-financing alone, and this is not practical. To be honest, it is completely incomprehensible how the public has not seen this problem as a major financial problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U16	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U17	Thank you. I'm trying to fit my two questions in one minute. Firstly, it seems to me that the plan to change the situation from 2021 has become a bit unrealistic. If we were talking about bringing about the change from 2028 it would be a very good idea and I support it because Estonia needs to be developed more evenly. But the plan to change it from 2021 is probably not very real. How do you rate it yourself? The second question is that if this does not happen from 2021, it is possible, according to the current rules, to channel these funds more fairly regionally? Have you analysed how this money could be channelled not to Tallinn and Tartu, but elsewhere? Is that possible, and if so, why haven't we?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U18	Thank you. I'll start at the end. I think that this is possible with national procedures, but I refer, as in the answer to the question of Urve Tiidus, to the very important difference as to whether our self-financing rate is 15% or 45%. That must certainly be borne in mind. Why go down the road that is much more precious to us? Now for the second question concerning 2021. You know, if we don't leave this morning, we're not gonna make it by tonight. If we do not immediately apply for an exception in the future budget period, there is a very high risk that we will miss it next time. Indeed, our proposal is based on the desire that the Government of the Republic immediately take its feet out of the belly and do something. And when it is said that it is not possible from 2021, I'm pretty sure it is from 2028. As well as developing our economy, I am somewhat sceptical about the continuation of this party, which has been here in recent years, this difference between the regions will certainly remain at that time, and then more efficient use of structural resources will have been achieved at least for the next period.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U19	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much for your answers. The Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin, will make a presentation on behalf of the commission, with 20 minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This draft decision was dealt with by the Finance Committee on 17 December. On behalf of the initiators, Kaul Nurm presented the draft, Magnus Urb was present at the Ministry of Finance. The circle of topics was about the same as just now in this hall. Several questions were asked, which were not answered, and the representative of the Ministry of Finance undertook to send us written answers. They are available from EMS. I will introduce very briefly what was asked of the representative of the Ministry of Finance. First of all, I asked to check whether the limit that was mentioned here is still valid for 800000 inhabitants. Now the answer came that it was checked, it is still valid. I'm going to read it out, it's not very long. It states that Estonia still does not have any obstacles to using state resources, including structural funds, to support regional development. It is a political decision within Estonia on how to address national development characteristics and how much resources to use for this purpose there is no need to divide Estonia into two regions. Secondly, there could be limited opportunities to support national reforms, services and activities from structural resources, as opportunities to support Tartu and Harjumaa would be reduced by repeating. I mean, it was more or less the same subject as in this room. For example, it was examined whether any analyses had been requested from the Ministry of Finance. The answer was yes, but the Ministry of Finance has not carried out any analyses on this subject. As regards the proposal that we need to start now in order to allow Estonia to be divided into two regions in the next funding period, the question is that these are very expensive and very demanding analyses that need to be done in order to achieve this. At the same time, achieving this goal is still a matter of question. It was noted that there should be an increase in funding from Statistics Estonia in this respect. I don't know, I'm sceptical about such calculations, but it was only about increasing the costs of Statistics Estonia by EUR 190000, including five additional employees. That's if we have a division into two regions. So the Commission listened, asked questions, discussed. The decision was to propose to the Bureau that the draft be placed on the agenda of the meeting of Tuesday 15 January and that the chairman of the committee be appointed as co-rapporteur. The procedure would then proceed according to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U21	The first question from Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! The claim that Statistics Estonia is going to be so much more expensive to do the work should be included in the angle of humor rather than sound in the serious discussion of the Riigikogu commission. But my question is whether the Commission also addressed experts who were not working at the Ministry of Finance. I expect that there are quite a lot of other people in Estonia who know what the European Union's financial rules are and how these things work. It seems to me that from the Ministry of Finance we will only receive biased answers on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U23	Thank you. I'm sure I'll pass on to the Ministry of Finance how much you appreciate their sense of humor. I looked it up, that's the statement in the Treasury's reply. It's an official letter, and they're probably responsible for that. Secondly, you could have just said that you didn't want this bill to arrive in this hall during its work. If we had approached other experts, we probably would not have received a proper response in two or three months. So there was no such proposal in the Commission. I must say once again that the debate was very benevolent. In fact, we all have a strong desire to receive more support from the European Union and to keep the co-financing component as low as possible. But unfortunately, it is as it happens, as it was agreed once 15 years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U24	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! We have just heard that the bill has been treated with great goodwill. Was it not, however, the idea in the Commission that this was an opportunity and could be used? Or was it all behind it, as I realized, that just this pursuit would be too expensive? However, as we heard from the rapporteur on the draft decision, there is still a possibility of differentiation and therefore of obtaining these amounts. Did it not make sense in the Commission to be able to get this thing out of the way?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U26	Most of all, in this university, we were afraid of such faculty members who would ask you a long question, but in the end, you don't even know what they were talking about. I mean, I think I just answered that when the last question was. It's like we don't want to be good for our country, that we may not have thought about it, well that's another subject, that's fiction. It's something for a meeting. I don't know, I don't have an answer to your question. We discussed it, we looked into it, as much as we had the chance. And right now, I'm reporting on what the Committee on Monetary Affairs has done. We've met once, we've heard the initiators, we've got details from the Treasury Department. This is all I've reported to you now. Thanks for the question, of course, but, well...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U27	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U28	Thank you, Mr President. The rapporteur from the Commission. As Chairman of the Monetary Commission, you represent the coalition and are certainly aware of the position of the government in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U29	Thank you. The government did not take a specific position. But the representative of the government, whom I mentioned, represented a negative attitude in the Commission, above all because it is not easy to make such a request. You certainly know that this is not just one paper in which you write that please divide Estonia into two regions. This must be accompanied by an enormous analysis. I can imagine it, a little bit of Eurobureaucracy, don't you think? And if you're already spending money on it, it's a good thing that the probability of getting a result is 50 or 50, but in that sense they're very skeptical. And this rule is that there must be a minimum of 800000 inhabitants in each region. Well, there are just 300,000 people missing in Estonia. This prevents the division into two regions. I personally would support this draft decision. I don't even know how I'm gonna vote in a few minutes. But knowing the complicated documenting that we all know, I understand that we still have to consider the odds of spending money on these analyses. I'd take the risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U30	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm sorry, it's about my ignorance, but I'm asking you over, because you yourself mentioned the 800,000 resident rule. There is conflicting information, and it has also been argued that this rule no longer applies. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs check the last state of validity of this rule? Do you have a document for that? Are you familiar with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U32	Thank you. Krista, I started by saying in the Commission that it has been changed that this rule no longer applies. And then I asked the Ministry of Finance to verify the validity of this euro regulation and send us a written reply. And I read it to you from the beginning. Here's four lines, I'll read them all. The committee president asked to check whether the limit values laid down in the so-called NUTS Regulation were still valid. The answer was that the consolidated current regulation can be found on the website of the Official Journal of the European Union, with a very long electronic address, but it is available in Ennu's e-mail. The regulation still applies to NUTS level 2 regions with a ceiling of between 800000 and 3 million inhabitants, as explained in the Commission meeting. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U33	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U34	Good President! Good waitress, penguin! I have two related questions. First of all, I ask whether there was any discussion in the Commission as to why, in 2013, when Maris Lauri was Minister of Finance, this request was not made. Secondly, you indicated that there is still an opportunity to make a greater internal breakdown on a regional policy basis. Was it also a question of why it was not used, why it was not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U35	Thank you for reminding me of a subject I forgot to talk about. I do not know why this was not done in 2013. Probably because there was already an idea then that if we want an exception, we need to agree on it in time. I would remind you that we once talked here about VAT on medicines. There were then massive examples of VAT across Europe. It turned out that either two or three countries had a zero rate. But it also turned out that these countries, according to my memory, Sweden and England, were set at zero before they joined the Union. This means that there are exceptions, including this allocation rule. I even have them written somewhere. These exceptions exist, but this distribution is likely to have been agreed before these countries joined the European Union. Anything is possible, but everything has to be done at the right time. So in 2013, I'm afraid, it was too late.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U36	Thank you very much. No more questions for the waitress. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups and committees. I stress: representatives, not members. Otherwise, we could have a chance to talk. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U37	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr Stalnukhin for this signal of hope. I really think that every vote is important, and if the vote comes from the Central Party Group and the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it is very good. Now, with regard to the claim that such an application is difficult to make, there must be a huge analysis. Our question is why this analysis has not been carried out. I think it is very important to analyse precisely the exceptions that we know have been made in other countries of the European Union in order to meet these requests. The essence of the draft decision is that the Riigikogu gives the government a very clear mandate to finally carry out this analysis. This requires a mandate from the Riigikogu, not a huge additional amount. It is a job that is probably simply not done. Apart from everything else, supporting or not supporting this decision is the question of who and how the Estonian state is still shaping politics: either the Riigikogu in its decisions or the government in essence with its omissions. This concerns several governments, not just those in office. Mr Sõerd is not in the Chamber and he asked his supporting question before, but I would remind everyone that this issue has been dealt with by the Special Committee on State Budget Control of the Riigikogu a year ago, last winter. It was concluded that if GDP in Estonia rose to 75% of the European Union's average and above the EU's average, it would result in a third reduction in Estonian euro money, according to current estimates. And now I am quoting what Mr Sõerdi said last February: if we were to apply to Eurostat for a split-up of Estonia in terms of structural support, we would win quite a lot. This victory could be between 150 million and 500 million, even 700 million. I have no reason to doubt these conclusions of the Special Committee on National Budget Control at the moment. Against this background, it makes no sense to say that Statistics Estonia has too much extra work to do. I have an appeal to all members of the Riigikogu to be in the Chamber during the vote and to take a stand on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U38	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Inara Luigas will be performing. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U39	Ladies and gentlemen, We have already heard in this Chamber today and in this chair that, in order to reduce regional disparities, structural support is distributed to the Member States of the European Union on the basis of three levels of distribution. Estonia has belonged to a level where the country is considered to be one holistic region and the money is allocated to the country as a whole. However, the Regulation also provides for other options if Member States wish to make use of them. Estonia, like other Member States of the European Union, has the possibility, for example, to make use of exceptions resulting from geographical, social, economic, historical, cultural or environmental considerations. I would point out that the number of inhabitants referred to here all the time is not the only basis for applying for an exemption. The question arises as to why we have not requested these exceptions and why we have not been able to use the money resulting from the derogations. The fact that Estonia is leaning towards Tallinn in its development is not a secret, and this development really does not want to look away from it in the future. Many may point out in the language of numbers and tables that it would be profitable for all people in Estonia to be forced into Tallinn and, at the very least, into Tartu, but it still lacks a sound logic. I am by no means in agreement with the fact that euro money must be placed only where it is of greater benefit to the recipients. So let the richer get even richer, and the poorer ones sit by the field. Fortunately, people still live outside Tallinn without free trams and high-paid jobs. These people have not lost hope of seeing the arrival of extra euros and the resulting economic growth in their home region. There is no basis for claiming that support to the outermost regions requires additional resources to deal with all the bureaucracy involved and that local people cannot cope with commitments. It's just a fictional excuse. As the Estonian economy has developed, and at the expense of rural areas, at different speeds, there should be an opportunity to divide Estonia into two regions. This would lead to a situation where Harjumaa would receive less euro money in the future, and more would be allocated to other Estonian regions. Most importantly, it must be emphasised that Estonia as a whole would win more as a total. This division of the country is not some dubious set-up, but a completely officially accepted option, which is allowed by the internal regulation of the European Union and which is used by many European Member States to boost their less developed areas. This is allowed and is a fair solution because it fulfils the greater objective of helping Europe to develop at a more equal pace. The current situation is, however, that the distribution of Estonia to obtain more euro money has not been bothered to deal with. Inevitably, the question arises as to whether we are already so rich that a few hundred million or even the EUR 700 million mentioned today will not even bother to get the paper smeared. There is also the question of why this issue was not dealt with earlier. This could be asked by previous finance ministers and their teams. Was it really the conviction of the officials of the Ministry living in the city that there is no point in supporting the rural areas of Estonia, they will not lose their feet anyway? I would like to emphasise once again that the National Audit Office, as well as the Special Committee on State Budget Control, has spoken on this subject and has taken the view that Estonia has so far not been able to distribute regional aid in an effective way and so has not ensured the growth of the rural economy. We continue to believe that Estonia should reduce regional inequality and that it must be dealt with in the future. We must make use of all the opportunities we have been given to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U40	Mr Stalnukhin will speak on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U41	Mr President! When I listened to my colleague, Inara Luis, I had a number of ideas that I would like to share here. However, when we are talking about regions and a fair distribution of money, it is primarily up to us, not the European Union. Look at the beginning in the mirror, only after that start... Let me give you an example. When a child is born in Pärnu or Valga or Narva, the local government pays his or her parents some kind of support, right? The municipality maintains a kindergarten. Of course, there are 100 or 200 children in kindergarten, but this newborn is one of the children on whose behalf hundreds of thousands of euros are spent from the local budget. This kid needs a place to walk. The local government must make playgrounds and walks. The municipality spends its money all the time! A child needs to develop, to maintain artistic circles, to keep sports clubs active, etc. Once again, the local government pays. He puts money into the local school, this process takes place all the time, he pays support, he co-finances catering. It is a continuous process in which local authorities pay, pay, pay at all times. And what happens in the end? Finally, this child grows up and goes to Tallinn. And we sit and try to understand: for God's sake, such a great, beautiful and rich city, and so much loves to talk about it, why do we have to be the ones who always invest in the capital? If you want a fair regional policy, think about what the local government is wasting its budget money on in one region or another! On what? Something that goes to Tallinn later. Yeah, we live in a country. Yes, we do, but when we talk about money, think about money from a different angle, think about money as a resource! We're spending a resource right now, money. But the resource of the future, the brains, the working hands, are going somewhere else. If this is the case, then there is some way to compensate for this process. Now that would be a fair regional policy! That would be enough if we all paid for what we get. So fair regional policy starts with us, not the European Union. We could get tens and hundreds of millions more, but it wouldn't change anything in our lives. There is a need to change something in the basis of our policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U42	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. No amendments have been tabled to bill 761. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with § 154 (3) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, we will discuss this draft at one reading and this will be followed by a final vote, which we will prepare. Honourable Riigikogu! Since a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft 761 decision, we will do a verification of the presence. There are 35 ambassadors. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to use euro grants more efficiently and regionally balanced" 761. Please take a stand and vote. As you will recall, the number of voters required to pass the decision is at least 51. The opinion was adopted by 12 votes to two, with two abstentions. The draft 761 did not find the support of the Riigikogu and falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U43	Second item: Second reading of draft law 574 on the amendment of the Local Government Organisation Act initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and related amendments to other laws. Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has given a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U44	Hello! I'm sorry to prevent the invitation, but it's still for the good use of our time! I understand the frustration of my colleague Jürgen Ligi in the vote on the previous point, but we will hopefully get over this problem in the course of this composition. The verification of presence before a vote of at least 51 votes in favour or the law is of no substantive importance. This is unfortunately such a crime in our Rules of Procedure, and this is what we are going to grub out with your help. But now out of draft 574, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs started at the beginning of last year, so on 9 January we celebrated this anniversary, not very spectacularly. With the Commission's discussions, we have come so far that this is a second reading, as you have seen from the agenda. I will briefly present the amendments that the Commission itself has tabled and which have, of course, changed the original wording of the draft. First, the amendment of the Local Government Organisation Act. I assure all those in the hall who are also members of some local government councils that the law allows us to do this. And I assure all those who watch Internet broadcasts somewhere behind the computer screen, being members of a council or members of a committee. The first amendment is as follows: a member of a council may not take part in the preparation, discussion or decision of a council on an individual act which is subject to an operating restriction in accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act. In addition, there is a clarification of the paragraph which states that a member of the Council is obliged to make a statement on his/her non-participation in the discussion of this item and that it shall be recorded in the minutes before the discussion of such a matter begins. This then applies both to the deliberations of the council and to the deliberations of the council committee. We discussed a little bit about what it means to prepare an individual act and how to limit it. Of course, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are not crazy, and we do not think that it would be justified and appropriate to monitor all the steps they take by members of the councils' committees, and in the explanatory memorandum we will explain that this preparation of an individual act means a debate both within the committee and at the council itself. The next amendment to the Local Government Organisation Act concerns the election of the Chairs and Vice-Chairs of the Commission. It is logical that the council may set up both permanent and ad hoc committees. As is the case today, the chairman and vice-chairmen of the committee must be elected from among the members of the council. One thing has, fortunately, been causing problems in very few cases so far across the country, and now it is clearly stated in the motion that every member of the council has the right to belong to at least one committee. This concerns both individuals who have been elected without being on the electoral union or party list, and those who have been elected to the council in the composition of some electoral collectives. The members of the committee other than the Chairman and Vice-Chairpersons shall be approved by the Council at the chairman's presentation, taking into account the proposals made in advance for the appointment of members by political parties and electoral associations. It makes sense that proportionality must be ensured. It must be based on this first and foremost. While the political party or the electoral association has realised that it has two or four seats on a certain committee and will present its candidates, the chairman of the committee should also follow this proposal, not say, for example, that Jüri Adams does not suit me, send Andres Herkel. This is how we have mostly accepted each other's proposals here in the Riigikogu. One amendment concerns the election of vice-chairmen and chairmen of committees. What if there are equal votes? First, an additional round is provided. If the additional round does not identify the chairman or vice-chairman, then the solution is to draw lots. And another clarification concerning the expiry of the mandate of the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee, either in connection with the publication of censure or in connection with the resignation. It has now been made clear that, in both cases, both the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee will be re-elected in the event of the expiry or suspension of the mandate of a council member. We've had it done in Rakvere. The next item is the membership of the Committee on Reviews. The Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be elected from among the members of the Council. Again, how will it turn out to be elected? This mechanism is exactly the same as for the other Members of the Commission. One clarification concerns the situation where a possible member of the audit committee is the CEO, manager or board member of a company, foundation or non-profit organisation under the governing influence of the municipality or city. Our proposal states in the draft that these tasks must not be carried out at the same time. It is necessary to choose whether it is a great desire to be the chairman/chairman of the audit committee or to continue as, for example, the head of a company under the dominant influence of local government. The original draft stated that the same restriction should apply to the chairmen and vice-chairmen of the Council, but in subsequent discussions we considered that these elected posts should not, however, be subject to this restriction. In a situation where the majority of Estonian municipalities have grown from both the population and the number of council members, it may be possible to man audit committees with members of dignified councils who are not the leaders of a municipality or city subsidiary. There are ten working days to make this decision in which role to continue. Then you have to let me know what choice was made. Now at one point, which the Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out. This concerns sending a parish elder or mayor or a member of the government to a service mission. We have tabled an amendment so that it should take place under the conditions and procedures laid down by the Council. The mission expenses of a parish elder or a member of the city council shall be reimbursed under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Civil Service Act. We have also provided for a period of time for this provision to enter into force so that local government councils can prepare the procedures for sending such missions. There will be time for this until 1 January 2020. The limitation on acting as a member of the audit committee would apply from the next municipal elections. If, at the moment, there is a situation that a school manager or, I don't know, the head of a municipal community is the chairman or a member of the audit committee, he can still be a member of that committee. Now, an amendment to the Anti-Corruption Act. The local authority, as well as the public authority, must ensure that, on its behalf, on its mission or under its supervision, the public official who has been intentionally convicted of a criminal offence relating to the abuse of professional or professional rights or to the violation of official duties, as well as fraud, mistrust, etc., does not perform his duties or functions on the basis of a contract. This prohibition shall apply in cases where at least one of the circumstances listed is involved. Finally, the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That is what we have been talking about in this Chamber too, what to do in a situation where the local government has suffered damage, but is not going to claim the damage. We propose to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure in such a way that the prosecutor's office has the opportunity to bring an appropriate civil action or a public claim on behalf of the state or local authorities. There are also points on how the prosecutor's office can involve experts. In short, the changes are all there is to it. The law is intended to enter into force in general terms, with the exception of the two points that I spoke about, one concerning the preparation of the audit committee and the other concerning the conditions for posting. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has, by consensus, proposed that the second reading of the draft be stopped and, if so, that the draft be reunited on 23 January and adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U45	Before starting the round of questions, I recall that every member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask up to two questions to the rapporteur. Please, Tarmo Kruusimäe!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U46	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Kristiine district council. There are also district councils in Tallinn, which are not the content of this draft. But would it automatically extend to the district councils? That is my question, because their role is almost nonexistent. They are an advisory body in case the city needs this advice. That is my second question. If the chairman is elected and the second round is not successful, lots shall be cast. Can't we just leave everyone to decide fortune in the same way when it comes to distrust? If there is no particular advantage, then perhaps the third round of fortune will tell us what will happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U47	Either the man falls or he doesn't fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U48	Yes, if some ambassadors may have a good and better spirit, then fortune cannot be deceived.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U49	Got it. You must be the Tarmo Kruusimäe, who is not Toomas Kruusimägi. Let me get this straight. Got it. I do not know how much you appreciate how many questions Mr Kruusimägi was. He had a few. But on the first question there was also the answer: indeed, according to the content of the work of the district council, the law does not extend to him. And we didn't even consider the possibility that, in the event of a mistrust, the decision might somehow be made with lots.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U50	The President assumes that there is one minute to ask the question. I believe that the record of the Riigikogu extends to five real questions. Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Pomerants! These things that are being dealt with here are also reflected in specific bad practices in different municipalities. Maybe you can comment on where they've come from. Has the Commission also analysed specific cases during the procedure, or has this procedure simply led to a better culture? The right of the Public Prosecutor's Office to claim damages illustrates well the example of Kohtla-Järve Council. When it comes to the right of a council member to belong to at least one commission, you can give an example of the restriction of that right from Narva. Regrettably, there was a case like this in Viimsi. As far as I am concerned, as far as the opposition's participation in the audit committee is concerned, it is an example of Narva and Kohtla-Järve. How many concrete examples has the Commission analysed, and can we change political culture through legislation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U52	Thanks! In urban-municipality days, there will also be a discussion about what to do with this local government organisation law. But it's sad, in fact, that we have to stuff individual cases with some sort of additional cut or dot. Under normal circumstances, local authorities should be able to organise their lives politely without the fact that things that are self-evident for many are regulated by law. We did not deal specifically with the analysis of this practice in the Commission. As regards the filing of a claim and if the local government does not do so, it is known from history that an example can really be given from Kohtla-Järve. However, I would like to say that individual cases are also known from South-East Estonia, not just from Ida-Virumaa. Municipal councils can behave very differently throughout the territory of Estonia, be it NUTS 1 or NUTS 2.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U53	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U54	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! Did the Commission also have any reflections on the election of the head of the audit committee? After all, the majority of votes usually guarantee the will of the power union, and a representative of the power union may become chairman. Does it matter? It is usually the custom to have this place in the hands of the opposition. And as far as the audit committee is concerned at all, if it develops on the principle of proportionality, then, of course, who has more representatives. Did you or didn't you have a special discussion with the audit committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U55	Thanks! I do not recall that we have dealt with this issue separately. Indeed, it should be logical and good practice that this place belongs to the opposition. I have been practicing for over a year, a year and a half, in Rakvere City Council, and I can tell you that we had such a thing that the opposition representative, who was keen to become the chairman of the audit committee, did not receive support in the vote. However, another representative of the opposition did. It was possible to choose between them, and this principle should be followed. Perhaps it should also be written in law, but it still seems silly to say it to one another ♪ to lay down all the steps of the local government. We are talking about a highly respected institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U56	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U57	Thank you, President-in-Office. A good colleague as chairman and rapporteur of the committee. My question is about amending the Local Government Organisation Act in such a way that the new text states: 'A member of the Council may not take part in the preparation, discussion and decision-making of an individual act of the Council which is subject to an operating restriction as laid down in the Anti-Corruption Act. ' I asked the same question in the Commission. My view is that this 'preparation' should be more clearly defined. You answered that in the committee, and maybe you'll answer it here. Shouldn't we get on with this? At the moment, the formulation is very vague. Secondly, the Chancellor of Justice has also supported the view that compliance with these operating restrictions could be monitored by someone in the municipalities and, if necessary, also advise the members of the council.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U58	Thanks! As far as this first point is concerned, I have nothing to add. I'm just repeating what I've already said on this remote. By this preparation, we mean participation in the Commission's work. Its more precise regulation would be deceiving itself; there is no good solution for that. But all together, that's where we ended up working together. If there's any good ideas in the future, we'll keep thinking, but I don't have anything better to offer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U59	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions. I will open negotiations on the draft provisions. Please, Hanno Pevkur!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U60	Ladies and gentlemen, The point of this bill is very clear. These problems, which have emerged in the practice of local governments, need to be resolved in the Chamber. I don't really want to do that. I would like to assume that what happens in local governments is subject to common sense and that what happens in local governments is governed by their own rules. I firmly believe that municipalities should be more independent, they should have the opportunity to organise their own lives better and clearer. But unfortunately, there are cases in the hall and also in the public mind where the organisation of the life of the municipality has either not been based on democratic principles or has been unlawfully omitted or, on the contrary, some kind of act has been done unlawfully. Indeed, the most prominent examples are those where the municipality has suffered damage because of some kind of act, but has failed to recover the damage. On 7 December 2017, the Reform Party issued a draft on this subject to the proceedings of the Parliamentary Chamber. Since this was a change in criminal proceedings, it was put on the table of the Committee on Legal Affairs, but after the first reading, the chairman of the committee, Jaanus Kariladi, was placed in a deep drawer, under the vigour of his leadership. However, the problem has not disappeared. This is also demonstrated by the draft we are debating in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and before us at second reading, in which we included the same proposal in almost identical wording. The problem is that if local governments are harmed, but the municipality is run by people who have a friendly relationship with the cause of the damage, they think it is quite reasonable not to recover the damage. This is not just about Kohtla-Järve; it is certainly about other municipalities, where there may be such cases. Be the example of an advertising campaign made by the Central Party in the capital city for the money of the city of Tallinn or some other cases. It should not be the case that the municipality advertises to a party, so the municipality will suffer damage, which has also been found in court proceedings, and then the municipality will say that let it be harm, and it will not be so great now. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This is an abuse of taxpayers' money. And when it comes to the abuse of taxpayers' money, that money must be recovered from the person causing the damage. The signal we're sending out of here today is not just for the town of Kohtla-Järve. It is also for the city of Tallinn and all other municipalities. When public funds, taxpayers' funds are abused, the national legal system must function and demand them if necessary. Other changes concerning the substantive organisation of the local government's work, the right to participate in committees and the obligation to withdraw from the discussion of certain issues, may be recorded in law, but in fact it is common sense. Common sense could say that it is part of democracy, that we also allow opposition representatives to committees, and that if anyone has any connection with an individual act, for example, when it comes to giving money to that person's NGO, he will reduce himself from that decision. These are actually basic rules, but the legal practice of Estonia and the behaviour of local governments have revealed that they are not taken for granted. So these two provisions are rather educational in nature. However, as regards the recovery of money used for criminal purposes and, where appropriate, the granting of this right to the prosecution's office, if the municipality does not do so itself, it is necessary to give a clear signal to all self-governance: good self-governings, the use of taxpayers' money must be fair, transparent and non-corruptive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U61	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U62	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U63	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U64	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to address the most important issues relating to this draft. There's a whole line of them, and they're pretty remarkable. Let me start with a general remark. Indeed, the law on the organisation of local government, which we are used to calling the abbreviation KOKS, is a law with a rather unusual fate. It was adopted in the summer of 1993 and immediately entered into force when it was published in the Official Journal of the State. After that, it has been changed at least 90 times. Thus, at least three times each year, this law has been amended for some reason. The law itself is also remarkable in that there is no other law so confusing and so difficult to read in the Estonian state. It is true that no government, no minister of justice, has managed to launch a new text of the Local Government Organisation Act. This, however, is a screaming problem that the next Riigikogus and governments must be reminded of, as it is beginning to acquire, I would say, forms of chronic mental illness. This bill, however, is a very unusual draft. There have been very few such drafts in the current composition of the Riigikogu. Over the last four years, we have had some full drafts written by the MPs and some of the drafts prepared by the committees, the work on which has been very substantial. It's definitely one of them. It was not born as a normal draft of the Government of the Republic's motion, but this initiative came from the Chancellor of Justice's office. In 2016, if I am not mistaken, a letter signed by the Chancellor of Justice that triggered the creation of this draft was received. I must tell all of you, and also in the interests of the verbatim, that I believe that the real author of this draft is Kristo Varend, who is currently sitting in the back left corner of the hall. He's the guy who basically done the job. Of course, he has also had assistants, he himself told me that the assistants were from both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance as well as from elsewhere, but that his great work must be acknowledged. There are currently three issues in this draft. The simplest of these may be that after the last local elections, Estonia had a lot of confusion about the formation of council committees. Mr Pomerants drew attention to these things. The bill has made an attempt to correct these shortcomings in the text of the law in order to prevent these things from happening again. Hopefully this will give a positive result, and hopefully it will never happen again that the members of the council that have turned to the court will receive an answer from the court that the apology, our right, will not be understood, is the question of the internal organisation of the local government, whether you will be allowed to work for the Commission or not, or whether you will be driven away. This is the simplest and most practical part of the draft. Part of the draft relates to an issue raised by a letter from the Chancellor of Justice. After all, the initiatives of the Chancellors of Justice are never their own initiatives. They are usually accompanied by letters sent by people, where they draw attention to some or other phenomena in society and in a country that they do not support. The various cases of corruption and suspected corruption involving local authorities have been so massive that it has been considered necessary to take one fundamental and very important initiative. This is the proposal to give the prosecutor's office an additional task. In particular, in the case of damage caused to the municipality by corruption or illegal income, if the local authority does not make the claim itself, the prosecutor's office must do so. I think this is a very positive step. If I am not mistaken, then the same procedure existed in Estonia before the war and is currently in very many other countries. During the reorganisation of the prosecutor's office, which was launched after Estonia regained independence, the obligation of general supervision was cancelled and the prosecutor's office focused solely on criminal proceedings. If it has been necessary to claim damage, there has been a practice in Estonia for several decades that an institution that has been robbed of something hires an expensive law firm and brings a civil action against the perpetrator or debtor. And sometimes he wins, sometimes he loses. That doesn't make any sense. The prosecutor's office has done well with its current tasks, and hopefully it will do the same. Finally, I will talk about the problems of preventing corruption. These are particularly serious because the current supervisory system collapsed completely in the course of the administrative reform. With regard to current supervision, there is a paid employee in the Ministry of Justice who will certainly not be able to do anything about it. What is the overall assessment of the draft? Getting it worse by law is unlikely to do anything. Whether any part of it's gonna work, I can't appreciate it right now. The problem is not in the text of the law, but is whether real implementation mechanisms will come up behind them and whether these real implementation mechanisms will be found. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U65	There are no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. Four amendments to the draft 754 have been tabled, and we will examine them together. All amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision is unanimous: take full account of everyone. Let's go through them one by one. Amendment 1, second, third, fourth. As has been said, everything is presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take them fully into account. The amendments to draft 574 have therefore been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U66	Third item: First reading of the draft law amending the Port Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Economy and Infrastructure Kadri Samson, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U67	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll introduce you to the draft law amending the Port Act. The draft has been initiated on the need to clarify the requirements laid down in European Union law in national law. According to the draft law, only those rules for which the European Union regulation explicitly imposes an obligation on the State to transpose the rule will be introduced. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). The Regulation applies only to the trans-European transport network (TEN-T) ports. In Estonia, four port companies have to implement the regulation and they own ten ports. These ten are the Old Port of Tallinn, the Southern Port of Paldiski and the Port of Muuga, Paljassaare, Rohuküla, Heltermaa, Kuivastu, Virtsu, Pärnu and Sillamäe. Regulation 2017/352 aims to ensure that market participants have the possibility to provide port services in an open and competitive manner. This provides high-quality port services in EU ports. It also aims to make the use of public port resources more transparent in order to avoid market distortions and unequal competition. The market for services offered in Estonian ports is already open and competition problems in this area are very few. To date, the Competition Authority has also dealt with complaints concerning port services. A total of 11 such complaints have been processed during the period 2001-2018. It is important to note that only two of these 11 complaints have been lodged in the last ten years. According to the draft Act amending the Port Act, the obligation to consult port managers belonging to the TEN-T network is imposed. The Regulation requires port authorities to consult their users and stakeholders in accordance with national law. In a number of areas covered by Regulation 2017/352, such as environmental issues, spatial planning, health and safety at work, national standards and inclusion and cooperation are already provided for under other laws. However, the national consultation obligation does not exist in areas involving coordination of port services in the port area, measures to improve connections to the hinterland, measures to improve and simplify port management procedures. The draft therefore introduces a general obligation for the port authority to consult its users and stakeholders in the areas set out in Regulation 2017/352 and to do so at least once a year. However, the port authority shall choose the method and form of consultation itself. Estonian ports are already consulting their users, so the rule does not create any additional administrative burden. The Competition Authority is called the solution to complaints arising from the application of Regulation 2017/352 and a procedure for the resolution of complaints is put in place. It is also important to note that the Competition Authority does not exercise public oversight over the enforcement of Regulation 2017/352, but has the power to deal with complaints in the event of infringement of the Regulation. The Competition Authority also deals with similar complaints under the Railway Act and the Aviation Act. The purpose of the draft is to establish the competition authority's procedure in the same way as in the draft amendment to the railway law on the handling of similar complaints. It is important, however, that a market participant can still appeal to the Competition Authority under competition law. Dear Members of the Riigikogu, I ask for your support for this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U68	Before starting the round of questions, I would remind you that you will be able to ask up to two questions to the two rapporteurs today. Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U69	Good manager and minister! There are eight comments on this draft from the ports union and their content can be summarised in the view that there is no need to include additional general provisions in the port law. However, your ministry says that since there is no standard of consultation in the Port Act, it must be included. There is no time to talk here for long, but the Union of Ports has explained a wide range of things in detail, for example, by addressing fees and port rules that are always available to interested parties. The provision now requires that it should be made public at least once a year, as a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council requires it. We are trying to force it into our law. Does this still make sense, or is it simply a groveling in front of Brussels? Experts say that everything you need is already in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U70	Thank you for your question. The European Union Regulation provides for consultation on a number of issues. When it comes to certain questions, we have entered the corresponding requirement into a special law. I mentioned earlier that a separate law states how environmental requirements must be met and consulted on this issue. The same can be said about occupational health. And now, indeed, we are putting in law an obligation that is supposedly already being fulfilled by TEN-T ports. They're gonna consult stakeholders anyway, but let's just say it's in the law. From now on, this is not only a well-established practice, but a statutory procedure for the port authority to consult its stakeholders.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U71	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U72	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good minister! It seems that all these things have worked well in Estonia. Why is such a regulation still born? Is the rest of Europe lagging behind, is it not the case that this regulation has now been issued elsewhere? I think we're good, like I heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U73	I dare confirm that you are right: things are in order in Estonian ports. This regulation was discussed in 2013 when the Estonian government formed its views. The need for a new rule arose primarily because there are large maritime states in Europe where port operations are closed and service providers are not even able to offer their services. The regulation must also ensure more transparent management in the ports of these countries and is likely to lead to more open decision-making processes in these countries in the future. But in Estonia, the openness of port services is good business practice, whether it is state-owned or private-owned ports.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U74	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U75	Good manager! Good waitress! Your last answer didn't satisfy me. We are taking the pricing of port services, which is one of the eight comments made by the ports association. Or another topic: the management of the port, organised by the master of the port. These two things we do, everything is public, as is required by the Brussels regulation, which we are trying to transpose intently. As I understand it, Italy, for example, or somewhere on the margins of the European Union, is different. I'm asking you, why do we have to deal with this stupidity when things work out for us? Are we simply trying to please Brussels and to adopt the law on the same day that this regulation enters into force? In most cases, the process actually stretches for months or years. Why does Estonia still need all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U76	Why aren't we taking decisions for months or years? Because we have effectively negotiated it with stakeholders and have not committed ourselves to deliberately delaying legislation. That's perhaps the correct answer. Now the question of how port authorities negotiate with other parties. It has been the case so far that if some parties felt that the procedure was not correct, it has been possible to lodge a complaint with the Competition Authority under competition law. Now it can also be written directly into the port law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U77	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Jaanus Marrandi, member of the Economic Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft, which was just presented by the Minister, was on the agenda of the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 18 December and also yesterday, 14 January. On 18 December, it was decided only that the draft would be brought to this hall today. The remaining procedural proposals, as well as the presentation of the content of the draft, fell on yesterday's date, when the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson was invited to the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, his advisor Peeter Kadarik, and Aigi Tänind, adviser to the Maritime Service of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I have no further observations on the substance of the draft act, as the Minister gave very thorough answers to the questioners. However, I will pass on some of the questions raised by the Members of the Commission at our sitting. The vice-president of the Commission, Toomas Kivimägi, was interested in the possibilities for carriers to challenge tariffs or port charges at all. The Minister replied that the draft provides for the possibility to challenge the tariffs in the Competition Authority. My colleague, Mr Aas, was interested in two complaints that have been made in the long run. He wanted to know which ports they had to do with. Aigi Tänind replied that one company in the Old Port of Tallinn initiated a dispute concerning an attempt to access the market in order to provide port services. The Competition Authority has settled both disputes. Mr Tarmo Kruusimäe examined whether this draft would allow additional obligations to be imposed on small ports in order to allow them to be used in a special or emergency situation. The Minister explained that in the event of an emergency, the law already provides for the possibility of using the resources of small ports. My colleague, Peeter Ernits, asked for further clarification of the reply to the statement by the Estonian Ports Association in the draft explanatory memorandum's coordination table, according to which our state's legislation already takes sufficient account of the requirements of the European Union regulation. Aigi Tõnn explained that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications agrees that national law already provides for the involvement and cooperation with stakeholders and partners, for example on environmental, occupational health and spatial planning, but that there are no internal consultation obligations for port managers concerning port services coordination in the port area, measures to improve connections to the hinterland and the efficiency of port management procedures. The regulation obliges the port authority to consult all partners and stakeholders in the preparation of its development plan and therefore the draft law provides for a necessary standard for these three areas. In doing so, the port authority can choose the consultation form itself. Having heard both the explanations of the draft and the answers to the questions raised, the Committee on Economic Affairs took decisions. First, the decision to finish the first reading was made. By consensus, all members of the Commission had been present at the meeting. Secondly, it was proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be five working days, i.e. 22 January at 17:00. This decision was also consensual. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-15_U79	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no questions for you. I will open negotiations on the general principles of the draft law. As this is a first reading, representatives of the political groups will get the floor. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 780. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 5 p.m. on 22 January. Today's trial is over. Have a good day at work! I'll see you in this hall tomorrow at 1:00. Closure of the sitting at 11.41 a.m.
