ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Happy next week of the XIII Riigikogu! First of all, we welcome Ivi Eenmaa, who has once again taken up the duties of a member of the Riigikogu. Does anyone have a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? Thank you very much. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, approval of the agenda. I shall vote on the agenda for the fourth working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents and no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-11_U2	Free mike. March Sults, please! Honourable Riigikogu, a member of the Riigikogu Märt Sults will speak in a free microphone. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-11_U3	Honorable Chairman! Honourable colleagues! I happened last week to watch "The Election Studio," where representatives of all our honorable parties were present. The subject was social care, social networking, hospitals and everything else. It reached the point that, as one of the mouths was said, how the county medical network needs to be restored and improved, the pediatricians should be in the counties, and it would not be so bad in the county. And then for me, a person with a long memory, as teachers still have, that the things that happened 30 years ago and even more time ago were remembered, spring came to mind when he was terribly protected and well-founded against south-eastern Estonian hospitals. It started at Valga Hospital's maternity department, then he goes to Põlva Hospital, and soon he should arrive at Võru Hospital. The same people who spoke in the Election Studio, where local medical services and rapid access to medical care are necessary, and how expensive the ambulance is the ambulance cannot provide the quality that even the most mediocre hospital with a ladies' doctor or an acousticsman can offer to the giver, for example, said a different story. I am sorry that I began my speech so intensively, but these very people basically blew up all these efforts in the spring. In the spring, when there was money and the will of the citizenry, a petition with nearly 3,000 signatures was also submitted; the local people demanded government intervention; it was not done. The Social Democrats who were represented in the Election Studio did not do the Reform Party or the Fatherland. Basically, we were left alone, and so it happened that Valga Hospital's maternity department was shut down on 1 July, even though we won in court, all midwives and women's doctors were fully compensated by the court. As a result, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Valga Hospital Seer was promoted for its excellent and meaningful activities to the management board of the University of Tartu Hospital. Mr. Glass, Chairman of the Council, promoted this person for this excellent act. Valga's remodeling is already underway for the day, and the general department is under attack. How do those people who let down the defence operation and the will of the people in the spring dare to speak about the need to restore the same things when we start our election campaign? It's plagiarism. It's worse than plagiarism. As a boy from Valga, I want to invite people, listeners, sufferers and fighters up: listen to what is said. A candidate can only afford work, conscientious work for the state and honest work and conscientious work, even if it is detrimental to himself. That's it. The election period has begun. Dear people, select who lies, who doesn't. I remember spring and I know that those people who now want to rebuild county hospitals are lying because in spring they shut them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-02-11_U4	There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 3.07 p.m.
