ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let's start our three-day briefing. First, please check your presence! 37 Members of Parliament are present and 67 are absent. The following members of the government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk. The President of the sitting shall give the floor, as we are intended, to put the question in order. A member of the Riigikogu may register only for one question. Two minutes to ask the question, ministers have three minutes to answer. After that, the President may give the opportunity to ask a more specific question or to give the question to a member of the Riigikogu who has registered on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U2	The first question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and is presented by Raimond Kaljulaid. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A very correctly pronunciated name, I commend you for that! Good Prime Minister! "The Spectator" has recently brought out the trainings and pictures of the EKRE youth organisation's coalition partner of the Centre Party from the training courses in which minors pose with weapons sent by 'image signatures referring to Jewish or racial hatred or otherwise threatening violence'. This is how the news portal for Estonian National Broadcasting writes. In this story, experienced web constables and child psychiatrists view these images and such activities as startling and threatening. Martin Helme, the finance minister of your government, says that he supports Blue Awakening with two hands, he thinks it is very right and very encouraging for young people. My question (I ask you to listen carefully and also answer this specific question): whose assessment do you agree with the experts who say that this behaviour is wrong and dangerous, or with the opinion of the Minister for Finance of your government, who says that it is, on the contrary, very right?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. I have often thought about the Constitution in such cases, and at the moment I am taking the opportunity to quote Article 12 of the Estonian Constitution, which directly prohibits the incitement to national, racial, religious or political hatred, violence and discrimination in Estonia. Such practices are illegal and punishable by law. It is also prohibited and punishable by law to incite hatred, violence and discrimination between social strata. If these principles have been violated, I trust the Estonian law enforcement authorities and the Estonian legal order. There is certainly no place for hatred in Estonian society. On your question, I will certainly think about this aspect of how easily we put all kinds of pictures or information into social media. Perhaps there is a point here, especially for younger people, that if they do, this information will always be there, and it will certainly have an impact on their future path, whether it is an education, whether it is a way of working, whether it is a way of communicating with friends. I think you should always think about that when you make any kind of post. I understand from your question that you're asking which way I'm leaning. But I also have the right to answer for this opportunity, and I will stick to my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U5	Thank you. The question to be specified. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Prime Minister. Okay, so the verbatim report says you didn't actually answer my question. My question was who is right, either the experts or the Minister of Finance. But now it's a clarification question. Personally, I believe that the creation of such armed groups by political organisations is a very serious threat to our internal security. When you read the news today, you saw that Europol has similarly expressed concern that radical right-wing organisations are recruiting people with either police or military backgrounds and trying to acquire certain capabilities. I think there is concern about this in Europe at large. My second question is: are you sorry, we are on top of you for a long time, have you had conversations with the authorities responsible for Estonian internal security and security, meetings, debates on the very subject of the spread of right-wing radicalism in Estonia? Has this been discussed? Once discussed, what is the government's agenda, how can we prevent it from simply leaving the borders of rhetoric in Estonia? If this has not been discussed, it has not been done, why has it not been done, and when is it planned to do so, especially after these images have appeared in national broadcasting?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U7	Thank you. Of course, any form of hatred, no matter where it comes from in society, either from the right side, from the left side or from the middle, has been discussed. After all, there are places at government level to do that. Perhaps most of all we look at these things in the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic. So the answer is, of course, it's been discussed. I am certainly in agreement with the position of the question in this respect to keep the focus on these issues. You said in your question that it should not come out of rhetoric or go beyond rhetoric, but I think we must also make an effort to ensure that it is not rhetorical either.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U8	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U9	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! I have, as I know, sent a letter to the Minister for the Interior asking if there is no reason to initiate the procedure for disbanding the Blue Awakening, because the party law very unequivocally prohibits associations, as party structural units, which arm themselves or carry out military exercises. What is your position on this matter, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U10	Thank you. I repeat to you, Mr. Juske, the thought I said to the previous questioner. I certainly trust Estonian law enforcement bodies, Estonian society, Estonian legal order. Hate can't have a place in society. Certainly, if there is a conflict with the law, the Estonian law enforcement authorities will also react.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U12	Next, Indrek Saar asks and the question is for the Minister of the Environment Rene Koka. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U13	Thank you. Minister of the Environment, it is a pleasure to meet you at Question Time. Since environmental issues have always been very close to the social democrats, I hope that this will be our regular form of exchange of information. But my question to you today, as has already been said, is in the field of energy. The government has prepared a law amending the Electricity Market Act, which gives the possibility to pay an even higher rate of renewable energy fee for burning wood in Narva oil shale boilers. There is a separate issue, however, but let the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Economic Affairs deal with it, whether it makes sense, what investments in renewable energy will not be made and who will actually pay for it on their invoices. But my question to you is how does this mass burning go together with the new forestry development plan with the aim of sustainably managing the timber resource, bearing in mind that mass burning is unfortunately the most unsustainable way to use the resource. How do you think all this will go together with the development plan with the aim of making the forest more worthy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner! The draft you referred to gives us the opportunity, yes, to burn biomass. But mostly we're talking about burning wood that's going to end up in boilers someday, so we're talking about branches, chips. I am absolutely convinced that proper timber, which can be deserved and used either as construction timber or in other economic areas, will not be taken there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U15	Thank you. Indrek Saar, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U16	It is a very optimistic opinion that only wood is burned that can't be done otherwise. 600000 tonnes of additional wood resources planned to be burned in Narva kilns are 5% of our total annual logging. In recent years, we have been discussing in a very thorough way in society whether our logging has not already become much bigger than it should be. If we increase demand by another 5% in this context, I suspect that the forests of Ida-Virumaa, where this is definitely known to you, are one of the main communities of flying squirrels, will also be significantly thinner than log trees. If you go to Eesti Energia Square, you will also see there today (these volumes are considerably smaller) that the salary often tends to go to the same oil shale boiler. I hope that in the future you will be able to get a thorough look at what is being burned in these boilers to fill this volume. I come to the second question that it would have been logical for stakeholders, in particular environmental organisations, to be involved in such a budget, when it is decided to pay so much for the additional support of the taxpayer to burn wood. Why wasn't this done, and how did you, the Minister for the Environment, under the watchful eye of the Minister for the Environment, still get the result that the environmental impact is marginal, even though we all understand that it cannot be in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U17	Thank you. I have also been able to visit some pellet factories and see what wood gets there for wood chips or pellets. I hope and believe that a good questioner has seen it himself, if not, then I suggest you look. This wood, which, as round material, reaches the shredders and becomes a fuel material, is something that is largely not suitable for use either in construction or in some industries. I don't think there's any reason to be concerned that valuable wood is suddenly beginning to move into boilers instead of oil shale. So there's nothing to worry about. Through the preparation of the forestry development plan, very many parties are currently involved, and this is where Estonia's best possible developments for the next decade will come.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U18	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Yesterday a small seminar on wind energy production took place here in the Riigikogu conference hall. It turned out that about ten years have passed since the establishment of the last wind farms, while at the same time we are very far from the goal of obtaining 42% of energy from renewable energy. There was also talk of a 10-year dispute with the Ministry of the Environment. In principle, one department of the Ministry of the Environment should support the deployment of renewable energy and another department, the Nature Conservation Department, is fighting against it. The entrepreneurs are there between them. How do you intend to resolve this schizophrenic situation in Estonian climate and nature protection policy without the help of the courts and without venting the entrepreneurs' wallet?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U20	Thank you for your question. While I have been in office, I have received a clear message that these main problems, why we have to stop developing wind power, are connected with the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of the Environment, as a representative of the state, is involved in this matter through the countries, but we are still looking for solutions to the obstacles that have arisen from the administration of the Ministry of Defence. I can assure you we're working on it. There's been a lot of meetings, and we're looking for solutions. The famous is Aidu wind farm. The government, as well as the ministries, are working on finding solutions to remove obstacles in wind farm areas and set up wind power production there. This is certainly one of our priorities. I dare say the entire Ministry of the Environment is working in this direction. I have not noticed anyone putting their foot in front and slowing down the development of wind energy in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U21	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U22	Next, Signe Kivi has a question for the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U23	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, The idea of inclusive education, which aims to ensure that each child is educated according to his/her abilities in a school close to home, is commendable. At the same time, the involvement of students with special educational needs requires additional efforts by the school, the school manager, the school manager, but especially the teachers. It is well known that supporters play a large role in the classroom, which ensures that children with special educational needs can study in mainstream schools. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Culture, which discussed how changes in the organisation of education, recreational education, sport and culture have taken place at the level of local authorities due to administrative reform, positive developments were noted, but the lack of support specialists in particular was highlighted as a major problem. As a minister, you yourself admitted that you are most concerned about the mental health of the students. Please describe the measures available and proposed in the new financial year that will help children with special educational needs to cope in general education schools without harming the interests of teachers and other pupils.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U24	Thank you, good questioner! Thank you very much, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, inclusive education. A large part of the topic of inclusive education has actually arisen in Estonian society because of the parents' awareness. Parents are increasingly confident in their choices and their desire for a child to go to a close-home kindergarten and school is rather irreversible in society. What am I trying to say? Of course, we also have special schools, we have special national and municipal schools that are dedicated to children with special needs, but still most parents clearly want to go to school close to home, despite the special characteristics of their children. Often, it seems like a legend that the law was amended or changed in society by some kind of obligation. It's not like that. Now from today's situation, from what's changed in the last few years. First, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act specified the mutual obligations of the state and local government. The State undertook to support local authorities according to the new rates and the local government, for its part, must also make efforts to find support specialists. The state has reached an agreement with the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn to significantly increase the order of specialized pedagogues and logo beets, from this year it has doubled or almost tripled in almost all these areas, depending on groups. In addition, we have extended the payment of starting aid to support specialists. This year is the first year, this year the starting grant was taken by 24 support specialists, these are all new people entering the field. In addition to this very important support, which is more than 23 million, it has changed that local authorities have made efforts and the payroll has also promised to increase the salaries of support specialists by a third. They have caught up with teachers' salaries, and it has also provided results, and support specialists are also seriously considering coming to schools. For example, this year the number of support specialists at school has increased by 34%. They may have been listed as teachers before, perhaps elsewhere at work. 34% is remarkable.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U25	Thank you. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U26	Good President! Good minister! Continuing, as long as the students enter the labour market, and even after they get there, we do not have support specialists. It's clear to everyone. That is why my question is: how have you planned to implement support specialists? Personal lessons with logo beet or special education are not sustainable; it is important to support teachers. Here's the question. What role do support professionals, including Pathfinder specialists, play in supporting teachers so that they can cope in the classroom? Getting help teachers to school is the same question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U27	Thank you, good questioner! I can see your background. I also say to the general public that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs are currently trying to understand together what services the Ministry of Social Affairs and what services the Ministry of Education offers, how to avoid duplication, for example, with the same logo beet service (a little less for specialist education services), because more active parents often apply for logo beet services on both sides. We have seen the most in 11 regions or 11 counties (which will end next year) when analysing this joint service, which is the point of your question. Perhaps the logo beet service is used very often, even if the content of the same service could actually be provided by a kindergarten teacher and a school teacher. The support specialist is often expected to do something else in the school system, or in fact the logo is not about speech therapy, but about general vocabulary development, preparation for school, helping a child from a multilingual family and all that. So, first of all, of course, it is important to have this round of training, which you also referred to in your question, but second, it is important to create a general understanding or to give the courage that a class teacher can do it. The training actually shows that they can handle it. But the expectation in society and the understanding of the parents they trust is a little different. That's the first part of it. Secondly, in the case of specialized pedagogies, we have seen in Haapsalu, for example, that the difference that was really needed by the SKA and the Pathfinder, and what expectations the schools had, was almost tenfold. The same assessment has been made in Saaremaa. Local authorities say that they need special pedagogies, but in many ways special pedagogues are used, for example, to ensure discipline in the classroom or to establish a certain authority. 'If you can't do it, we'll send you to a shrink! " When you start looking at the contents, it often turns out that this teacher doesn't do his specialty work. So in answer to your question as a specialist, what the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education have done together in 11 counties is a very serious job, and that is what we will continue next year, so that eventually, on the one hand, the real service will reach those who need it and not have a waiting list and, on the other hand, we will be able to use the money more efficiently and this service will be more thought out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U28	Thank you. No further questions, I will stop addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U29	Next, Katri Raig has a question for the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U30	President-in-Office of the Council. Good Minister of Education! My question is how to solve the challenge of teachers' follow-up. I'll explain. If we took the first line in this Riigikogu hall, the first three of the natural sciences teachers would be over 60 years old, one would be under 30 years old and the other six would be my peers. What are your specific ideas on how to ensure that, in ten years' time, there will be those in class in chemistry, biology, mathematics and physics?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U31	Thank you very much. We have carried out analyses, and we are pleased to note that today we can tell where we are lacking teachers. We have a sector-specific and also a region-specific data set. So far, if we were talking about general numbers, we really know the city's or even the local government's accuracy. Of course, this generalization, which the good questioner pointed out, is true. We know that there is a general shortage of science teachers, but there are also, say, very large holes, such as French, the city of Pärnu, etc. What's the general situation? We have 12965 posts, but 15,500 teachers. So, when we talk about the shortage of teachers and the burden on teachers, we need to be honest, we have changed the number of children from region to region, but the number of teachers has rather increased, especially in some areas. This also concerns those highly sought specialists. For example, we have a large number of science teachers in the Republic of Estonia who work with very little pressure. Now the question is why this is so and whether we can motivate these teachers to move to a place where there is a huge lack of teachers. What are the measures? First of all, young people should have the courage to become teachers. This includes teacher training, refresher training, Youth to School, Back to School. It is very important to support a beginner's teacher so that we can support the person we have become a school teacher for the first three years so that he does not leave school. That's one. Secondly, of course, it is important that we continue to train those people who work at school, and we all try together to find the bottlenecks that make teachers decide to leave school. Thirdly, of course we all know the research results. Teachers themselves regard about 60% of wages as the most important. So in addition to other measures, the teacher's salary must continue to rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U32	Thank you. Katri Raik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U33	Thank you for your previous answer. Let me ask you a specific question. One of the recognised members of the Estonian Conservative People's Party stressed very strongly in yesterday's educational interview that teachers should be directed to work, so refocusing should be restored, for example, that three years must necessarily work as a teacher. Do you support this idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U34	For many years, society has been debating whether young people who study in any field at university should be obliged to work in their specialty after the taxpayer has paid for their education. The Ministry of Education and Research is considering various measures, such as additional scholarships or any other way. We have written it into the coalition agreement, we have a duty to do so and at some point come before you with answers. So there is a expectation that young people will devote themselves to their specialty. Perhaps the issue of teachers has not remained so in society, but for example, the medical faculty is very widely discussed, which would be these additional measures so that these good specialists would rather remain in Estonia. But this is not the only area, yes, it has been suggested, for example, that there could be either additional tips in teacher training or some kind of support measures that would attract young people to specialise as teachers on the one hand and, on the other, we would also like to see them as subject specialists in schools on the other. But real direction, maybe as we remember from history, the Ministry of Education and Research and I personally do not support it, because it was part of the planned economy. This was a little different, directing also meant guaranteeing a job. We should see if there are such areas, so that we can direct all the specialists to the regions. The housing market was different then, the apartment market was different. Then we should consider in a much more complex way whether, for example, we can provide housing for the agronomist in the region, in addition to the job, etc. However, such softer measures to motivate, on the one hand, going to study in this area and, on the other hand, creating a contractual relationship so that he stays in the field, that he uses the private sector in some places, and I believe that this is very welcome. But yes, it's the kind of extra choice a young person can make. I personally have had two such scholarships when I signed a contract and knowingly took the courage, bound myself for five years and did not feel harassed. So if this previous choice goes with it, why not consider such measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U35	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You have now been in the government led by Jüri Ratas for many years. In my opinion, the government led by Jüri Ratas stands out by directing large sums of money into different sectors before the elections, as if buying an election result, but when the elections are over, it turns out that potential wage increases in key sectors will remain very weak. This also applies to teachers. The 2.5% that has been put out is clearly not enough. You yourself said that more than 60% of teachers consider wages to be an important motivation for working. Please tell me, why could you, as a minister, not defend the position that the teacher's salary would have risen according to the need and order of society for teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U37	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, it has been a pleasure to be a minister in the government of Jüri Ratas for three years. We have raised the minimum rates of EUR 100 for three consecutive years. It's historical, there's never been such a huge increase in teachers' pay. It is a pleasure to note that this has really changed society's expectations. I emphasised that 60%. There have been times when most teachers said that the main reason why they are considering quitting is very low wages. This shows that this movement and the belief that wages will continue to rise are important. EUR 100 in three years has also been one of the things that has clearly led to the number of teachers. In addition, the increase in the pay of kindergarten teachers, which has been very high, must also be taken into account. A good questioner certainly knows that in Tartu this change was almost twenty percent, but in very many places there was a raise of more than 100% in kindergarten. So in these sectors of education, the previous government was the driver of a significant wage increase. Now this year's budget. In fact, I do not have to say until half three, which is the minimum level that the state offers, because it is still polite to offer and listen to the other side in the negotiations with the Estonian Educational Workers' Association and local authorities, but our offer is significantly higher than 2.5%. If the Prime Minister transfers the budget, he will probably say that we have planned or suggested that it would be EUR 65 in absolute figures, plus an additional salary fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U38	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U39	Next, Mr Rõivas has a question for the Minister of the Environment Rene Koka. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U40	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, according to the tax theory, the land tax is a perfectly logical and reasonable tax, since local governments often incur costs in relation to the size of the plots, whether it is the costs of good order or, for example, of street lighting. Let it also be said that the regular assessment of the land is reasonable in itself, because there have been a number of important developments in the meantime. Indeed, 2001 prices, if I remember correctly, are unlikely to reflect adequately today's market prices even as a share. But just as there is any good thing, there are dangers to overreacting. We know from history that part of the municipalities I once again emphasise: part, far from all, has gone too far with land tax rates and has set tax levels that have become completely out of reach for people. It has been said here that the price of land has risen six times on average compared to 2001. This may well mean that, for example, Nõmme's plot of land, if there is no change in the tax rates, it will have to pay a total of EUR 5 000 per year in the future, which, I believe, would still be an unreasonable burden for many hunks. My question is simple. Does the regular valuation of the land, for which we can expect this average increase to be about six times, involve adjusting the tax rates so that new limits can be set for the municipality within the range of the land tax rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U41	Thank you, good questioner! Yes, the fact is that there have been three regular assessments of the land in Estonia: 1993, 1996 and 2001. It's been 18 years since the last time. As you have just said, a great deal has changed since then and prices have also changed. As far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, the Land Office, as an institution under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment, is the one who is carrying this process now, and as far as the tax side is concerned, here is the cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. However, we have agreed in principle that, if the regular evaluation of 2021 countries is carried out, there will be no land taxation many times higher. As far as I am aware, in 2001, when the land was last assessed on a regular basis, coefficients were proposed to which the local authorities could change their land payment. Perhaps the answer is that yes, limits are proposed so that it does not lead to an immediate tax increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U42	Thank you. Javier in clothing, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U43	Thank you very much for your answer. That made it a little bit clearer. I also think that, in any case, there must be such a limit, because not very long ago, in 2017, when the excise duty on beer was doubled, it actually took money out of the budget. True, with the land you live in, you can't go to Latvia, and this tax revenue can't go past the budget, but it could blow a very, very big hole in people's wallets. Therefore, I think it is comforting for everyone to hear that when the land has to be assessed regularly, limits will also be established so that local authorities cannot arbitrarily increase the rate too quickly. The second question is this. Have you riddled with how much of this land's regular valuation could benefit the state, if at all? This money is directly received into the municipal budget, but there are probably some accompanying effects. How much could this increase the income base of municipalities if this assessment is implemented in 2021?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U44	Thank you. A very pertinent question, but the answer is, unfortunately, that the Ministry of the Environment has not done this calculation, this process is only at a very early stage, i.e. it is only only just started, the impact assessments will certainly come up there from the Ministry of Finance. One of the points in this topic at all is how to regulate, so that in the future, regardless of the political position in the country, who governs and who does not, there is a law that provides for regular evaluation to take place, for example, every four years, and does not create such holes. It is also an issue that will certainly be put on the table, and I hope that we will find a sensible solution, as has been decided in many European Union countries, that it will happen every four years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U45	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I listened to your answer. You once said that we do not have to worry, because if these revaluations take place, the liver will not rise. Then the question arises as to why this re-evaluation is broadly needed. I am also of the opinion that the tax on the land under home should not be a burden on man, that he should pay off his final cents to do so, even though this could happen if the policy of today's government continues. But what is the point of this assessment if you say here in front of the Riigikogu that we will do everything we can to ensure that the tax does not rise in the revaluation? Where's the logic in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U47	Thank you for your attention. Yeah, I may have put it a little bit wrong. It's written like this, so the liver doesn't rise six times or several times. Surely, a reasonable, human-acceptable coefficient must be taken on the basis of which this increase comes. It's hard to talk about today, it's still work, but this tax is definitely not many times bigger. It's also clear that the exact amount can't stay exactly the same, but we're not talking about jumping here, that it's going to increase several times. This must be reasonable, because, as we all understand, for 18 years this reform has been unfinished. We cannot pick it up one at a time, it must be brought forward reasonably and it must be regulated sensibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U48	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U49	Next, the question of Heljo Pikhof is for the Minister of the Environment Rene Koka. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U50	Thank you, Minister for the Environment. In replying to an inquiry into the Estonian Forest, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise said: 'Complete power in planning cutting works cannot disregard § 55 61 of the LKS and the impact of unassessed cuttings on the nesting peace of birds and put all responsibility on the performer of the work. ' In order to be authorised by the State to carry out logging works, the forest owner or his representative must submit a forest statement to the Environmental Board pursuant to the law. The Environmental Board will therefore have to assess at the same time whether the Forest Communication is correct and whether the felling applied for complies with the legislation. In the simplest sense, this means that the state must ensure that nesting birds are not destroyed by allowing cutting. In a recent interview with journalist Toomas Sildam, you said this: 'If we talk more about forestry, we will consider establishing a bird-peace in protected areas. 'Is this some kind of cynical joke? The question is, what law do you rely on when, unlike the Chancellor of Justice, you talk about the cutting reef of birds only in protected areas? This section of the law is valid everywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U51	Thank you. If I had learned this question earlier, I could have prepared it exactly. But it's a good thing you brought it here. This isn't a joke. Today, for example, RMK can also make certain types of cutting in protected areas. That is precisely the case, it is not against the law, but it would be reasonable that, if we have created protected areas in both state and private countries, during a bird-peace, we would still protect the birds and establish a complete bird-peace there. That is where we are now taking steps to do this. But I'm sure I'll ask my department to answer you with an exact lawn that today allows some type of cutting to be done in protected areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U52	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Climate policy is certainly an important issue and it is completely incomprehensible why different members of the government are sending different signals, whether they believe in climate change or not. But I'll ask you more remotely. I know that the Hellenurme mill has been in court with the Ministry of the Environment regarding a fishing access system, so let's call it that right now. In my opinion, this is a rare example of a positive impact on climate policy and the fact that this water mill could work could provide people with a service and income in addition to such historical-aesthetic experience. As a minister, can you tell us why one small enterprise and an important historical place in the region are literally being terrorised? Is it really not possible to find a solution that would not burden or drain this company in Hellenurme?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U54	Thank you for your question. I must admit that I am not familiar with all the circumstances of the case of Hellenurme specifically, but I am familiar with the case of Linnamägi. It wasn't a question of that, but I'm more familiar with Linnamägi and maybe you'll get an answer from the Linnamägi case. These questions aren't black and white when we're talking about swells. In the case of Hellenurme, it is the case that, on the one hand, it is necessary to open the river to fish, salmonids, in order to improve spawning possibilities, on the other hand it is renewable energy, hydropower. This is where the Ministry of the Environment chooses. On the one hand, it is very important to us that these renewable energy targets are preserved and given renewable energy, on the other hand, we have a duty to improve the natural environment and improve the fish population. As far as I'm concerned, there's still a trial going on, but it's also one of my priorities on the table. I'm about to go to the government of the Republic with this thing that concerns the City Mountains, to get the position that the government thinks to do with it. As a result, we will continue to look at other pending cases. There are no black and white solutions. Yes, it would certainly be my wish to produce renewable energy and, at the same time, to open these places to fish, but all these things must be seen on a case-by-case basis, because everyone has their nuances. Even there, on Linnamägi, making fish stairs alone does not save the situation, because if we don't lower the barrier of Linnamägi, unfortunately, the fish cannot go to spawn. On the other hand, we are dealing with a heritage object. So do we want to close a repaired object that is capable of producing electricity today, and there is another hydropower plant on the river? This would significantly reduce electricity generation. Is that what we want? Here are the options, they are being dealt with and they are waiting for opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U55	Thank you. Specific question, Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U56	Thank you. Dear Minister of the Environment, I would have liked to hear from you that § 55 of the Nature Conservation Act applies everywhere, not just in nature reserves. It would be nice if you knew that. But now to the next question. The text of the People's Initiative "Climate-neutral Estonia by 2035" of the Estonian Nature Foundation begins as follows: 'The state of Estonia must act on a scientific basis, decisively and quickly to halt climate change and to move towards a fair, green and smart economy. As a first step, the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Riigikogu must set the goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2035 and re-examine the current national plans that influence the achievement of this goal. ' Now the question. Did you, Minister of the Environment of the Republic of Estonia, sign this sentence in 2019? The point of the question is, of course, why yes or why not, as the case may be. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U57	Thank you. Coming to this previous comment, with which you started the previous question, then, as I said, the laws apply everywhere, also in nature reserves, but at the moment, certain cuttings are allowed there. This is already a positive step in the end of any felling in the nature reserves throughout the country during the bird reef. This is again a step forward for which, I think, the ministry should be acknowledged. But as far as climate neutrality is concerned, I am certainly prepared to sign with two hands to achieve climate neutrality by 2025. I don't think there's a lot of people against trying to get there. But you have to understand that everything has its price. When we talk about potential carbon neutrality in Estonia by 2050, we are talking about 16.6 or almost 17 billion euros, which is estimated. It's gonna take somewhere to get that money to move that way. I am undoubtedly in favour of moving this way earlier than 2035 but these investments need money. Of course, it's very good to come out with slogans and say that someone should. But we must all make an effort, the entire Estonian people must make an effort, and entrepreneurs must make an effort and spending. Therefore, my view is that we certainly need to move towards climate neutrality, but this must be done step by step, so society will also have to follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U58	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U59	Let us go to the next question that Jüri Jaanson will put to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U60	Thank you. Dear Minister, On Monday, a major Europe-wide sports week began and is currently taking place. I think this week is symbolically the right time to ask you questions about mobility education. As an interim remark, this morning, a general physical test of the Defence Forces took place during this same sports week. I'd like to congratulate the Minister of Culture of your government, who has done this fabulously. But here's the thing. The aim of the Sports Week is to make society aware of the importance of healthy and athletic lifestyles. Physical activity should be part of the daily life of all of us, but especially of children and young people, for the sake of health. After all, the World Health Organization also recommends that children and young people should move for at least an hour a day with moderate and strong intensity. However, research into mobility activity shows that reality is different and youth mobility has decreased significantly compared to the previous one. Here come the questions. After all, children spend a large part of their day at school and the responsibility for their movement and health falls to the education system. I would like to ask what the Ministry of Education and Research has done and what plans to do in the near future to increase the activity of children during school days.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U61	Thank you. First of all, it is, of course, very nice that such initiatives give attention to wider mobility. In addition to moving, it is also a matter of standing so that every hour a person stands for at least five minutes and how much it benefits health. Now about schools and the school physical education curriculum. Perhaps the first part here is to make the physical education curriculum broader as a curriculum so that the physical education class becomes an hour of exercise, and to increase the volume of these hours. This has been discussed for several years by specialists in the subject area in cooperation with the University of Tartu. It has fiery proponents and very fiery opponents, so it's not a matter of principle. The mobility lab of the University of Tartu has offered its initiatives; sports collectives have come with them. What are these positive examples? Eighty schools have gone along with the movement program. Moreover, when new or old school buildings are being renovated, scientists have come to the aid of rethinking the entire school building, whether, for example, the gym is somewhere separate or is somehow inside the house and how children can move in recess. So this is a much wider subject than physical education class. First there's physical education and then the school's overall structure. But how far are we with this and where have we come from? 80 schools are few when compared to the total number of schools. In recent years, there is a greater focus on general mobility among students in relation to support for recreational education. You know the recent decision of the previous Riigikogu on 15 million. The two areas that grew the most were technology, i.e. mainly IT and robotics and sport. The expansion of sports choices by bringing coaches on the ground has been one of the options. So, in addition to physical education at school, expanding the opportunities for recreational education on the ground is also a sign, especially where the school bus takes the children home. So this increased involvement of recreational education, hobby schools, sports schools and clubs in school and the abundance of choices are also important, as some areas may still be unknown to children. The local government compensates, there's no place payment, but the kids just don't know how great the choices are, and they don't even know how to ask them at home. So these steps are perhaps the most important, the inclusion of recreational education and the rethinking of physical education in the broadest sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U62	Thank you. Specific question, Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U63	Indeed, I agree with you that the inclusion of recreational education in the education system is one of the key issues, including this assessment of the education system. But that's what I'm asking you about. It really is a very strong support for the state, it is supporting or providing additional funding for the education of interest and, more generally, the activities of interest. Almost 20 million euros were distributed to recreational education in 2017-2018. One question arises here when we say that this year, the amount that should be distributed to the activities of interest should be EUR 15 million, but on the Ministry of Finance page, I read that it is EUR 14.3 million. I don't know what the difference is, but that's not the main question. I'd also like to know why that is, but I'd rather ask it that way. I have received information from youth sports organisations, as well as from coaches, that the money for recreational education and activities does not always reach the target groups sufficiently or well enough. That's the problem. I would rather look at the bottlenecks you see in supporting the activities of interest and whether you have an overview and an understanding of whether the funds allocated for recreational education have actually reached the target groups and what can be better done.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U64	Thank you. First of all, if you have a few moments, then the website of the Estonian Youth Work Centre (in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, I think some people said that it should be sent out, but it is a topic that is being dealt with with with with the whole heart, there are very good young people) can simply be of interest to each region, if you have an interest in some county and to analyse each area separately. They've put all their data into it, and for the last 15 months, this support has been implemented. It may be the best way to access the data, it can also provide data on a sector-by-sector basis, for example, to take out and watch sport separately. Now for the expansion of opportunities. The opportunities have widened by more than 60%. If you think about the amount of money that's relatively small, you can see that this jump is very big. The reason is that the Riigikogu, at the moment it dealt with it in the Committee on Culture, set enlargement as a separate goal. It was therefore necessary to find a new target group or to find excluded young people. In some regions they are for geographical reasons, for example in large municipalities some areas were not covered by an education of interest, or there was some area, especially IT, but also some sports were not offered opportunities. In addition, there are some target groups here, especially those aged 13 to 17, which are the smallest choices. These were the guidelines given by the Riigikogu. That's why the choices exponentially expanded. The tight spot is exactly what you mentioned, but the current coaches said they didn't get anything in particular. There may have been four football clubs in football, but some coaches who already had very good groups did not receive any support. This is the most important bottleneck for valuing existing, not just finding new target groups, and how to find a compromise to bother dealing with young people who may have been excluded, or with children of the most difficult age, teenagers who may still have to deal with another subject. These were the two dilemmas that the Riigikogu presented, but at the same time the existing coaches must also be valued. This is the greatest challenge in the coming years when we share this money. I'll specify the difference between the amounts. This is because 2.5% was left national in support of activities. This 2.5% is specifically stated in the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U65	Thank you. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Over the last few weeks, we have had quite a few opportunities to be together at meetings where different topics have been discussed. Somehow, young people and children still have a lot of stress and tension. Scientists have determined that sports, outdoor exercise, playing out at all, and being active are reducing these tensions and helping children to be socialized, etc. It is also known, as you have already mentioned, that the Invitation School is a very nice program, created by the University of Tartu, which contributes very much. Would the schools like to join it? It's a management decision whether or not they join it. In fact, we, as a country, are giving opportunities, and then, children, be good and take advantage of it all. My question is, how does the Ministry of Education contribute to all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U67	I tried to say that in answer to the first question. First of all, of course, the movement lab is our partner; at the same time, it is also a partner of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. He has been very active in introducing his activities in schools. There are very different nuances about how a school can rethink the whole day of school by moving around. This is a much wider subject than it may seem at first. How's the Ministry? In terms of curriculum development, of course. But as I said by answering the first question, and I repeat, there are fiery supporters to rethink physical education into a wider exercise, and it has fiery opponents. This is the reason why this syllabus is still being discussed. There has been no final decision. For many years too, it has been discussed how and to what extent to evaluate physical education and how to recognise general exercise at all. But you raised the issue of how to make young people move in the broadest sense. Yes, there is no new and interesting truth here, because unfortunately, all the figures show that young people are moving less and less. Those who go to practice or engage in sports are moving, but the overall time spent outside with the family has decreased considerably since childhood. Young people who are not directly involved in recreational activities tend to be completely excluded. We have, of course, compulsory physical education. Most schools have added additional points for the additive. These forms of study are used where this is at all possible: different opportunities for outdoor training, whether or not they go to the nearby park, RMK has done a huge job in environmental education in order to take young people out. There are outdoor training days, but yes, such a general movement also results in a lot from home and understanding how much fresh air should be in. This, unfortunately, has been shown by all researches to show this rather less.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U68	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U69	Next, Riina Sikkut has a question for the Minister of the Environment Rene Koka. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U70	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! In Estonia, our carbon emissions have been analysed very much in recent years, from which sectors it comes. This is a very interesting picture. On the basis of this, various areas, including the Ministry of Agriculture, are making their own plans on how to move towards a carbon-neutral economy that has been very interesting to me. Last week we heard in the European Union Affairs Committee how the Ministry of Agriculture is planning its actions. I realized that all the things planned improve soil fertility. They also contribute to more carbon sequestration, but they aim for greater soil productivity and better yields, and also help to meet climate objectives. This is probably the case in many sectors. In the case of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in the case of transport, this means that public transport is moving towards lower carbon emissions, that we have cleaner urban air, that the health benefits are greater. So meeting the climate targets will actually enable us to make substantial improvements in a large number of sectors. Energy is still where practically all our carbon emissions come from. You have said that the objective of climate neutrality is actually a worthy objective, the question is simply the pace at which we can move towards carbon neutrality. That is why I am asking you: can I expect you to oppose the plan to spend hundreds of millions now on "last century" technologies, such as oil factories and refineries?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U71	Thank you, good questioner! I would certainly like to congratulate you on a very relevant issue and on being well informed about it. Yes, the fact is that until we can get rid of oil shale energy, we still have to go and we have to make decisions. The fact is, too, that the pre-refinery you were talking about is not a plant that directly saves the world and the climate. I'm not going to tell you otherwise here. It is clear, however, that the country needs to move forward in its development and find solutions to gradually emerge from the use of oil shale and find more economical and useful solutions than today's oil shale oven. I guess this oil shale oil refining plant is one of the things that can move towards it, by reducing on the one hand the furnace of oil shale and, on the other hand, by creating a buffer to achieve climate neutrality in 2050 or 2030. As sad as it may seem, we often talk that we want alternatives, both in the form of solar energy and windmills, but there was also one such question before, which is that we often talk about it, but if there is to be a new wind farm or a solar park, then people are very opposed. Do it, but do it somewhere else, not near my house! There are no simple solutions. To be honest, I think that not only in Estonia, but also in Europe, but also elsewhere, very many countries really do not know which technologies will come in 2030 and beyond. Technologies are evolving. I do hope that one day we will be able to turn today's carbon problem into a win-win for mankind, that we will be able to find these technologies, that there is hope, that they will be dealt with to get carbon from these same chimneys one day. These challenges are, in any case, difficult not only for Estonia, but for all the countries of the European Union, but we will do our best to move towards cleaner nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U72	Thank you. Riina Sikkut, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U73	Thank you. It's really good for me to go on from here. I wanted to ask you about "new technologies." I'm just counting on the fact that the investment in old technology is huge when you put it in comparison, for example, with all the funding of our science. But if the same money were to be directed to science to help our scientists develop these new technologies, would that be a part of it? I can't even imagine what more oil shale could produce than oil. There may be ten other ways to increase added value, but we do not provide researchers with either funding or sufficient support or motivation to do so. What do you think about channeling this money into developing new technologies instead of supporting old technology?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U74	Thank you. One does not rule out the other. Oil shale has been studied quite a lot, and it also needs to be explored further and to find possible alternatives that oil shale can still produce in addition to electricity. However, I am happy to say that I have taken and have taken this role very strongly in the Ministry of the Environment to lead the future of hydrogen technology in Estonia and the mapping of this area, to bring to the table all scientists and specialists in contact with hydrogen in Estonia and to go on with it. I certainly have faith that hydrogen technology is one of the technologies that will help us further towards a more carbon-neutral society in the future. I will certainly carry this forward, and with it we will go on to map out the best possible practices in Europe and start implementing them in Estonia in the future and introduce them to the members of the Riigikogu when we get there.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U75	Thank you. Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Minister, for your interesting answers and also for raising the issue of hydrogen energy on the table of the government. But I'm asking about the problem of wind energy. In the previous paragraph, you replied on the subject of Ida-Virumaa and national defence restrictions, but the documents submitted to us yesterday also mention nature conservation restrictions, mainly the creation of new nature reserves and the zoning or expansion of existing areas. These new and expanded nature reserves will reduce areas suitable for producing wind energy. One way of reconciling these two opposite sides is by considering alternative locations outside areas suitable for producing wind energy or the coexistence of wind farms and protected areas when protected. Would you still agree to jointly direct the developers of wind farms and the nature conservation department's staff to examine this map so that one does not rule out the other and one does not throw sticks into the spokes?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U77	Thank you. I think every healthy-thinking person realizes that cooperation points need to be found. We cannot simply go numbly over people or reject some things with very light hands, not even starting a debate. I support, of course, that there should be more wind farms in Estonia so that we can have broad-based negotiations and people are encouraged to find solutions to problems between people and between entrepreneurs or between the state and nature. These are the very difficult processes and solutions are born in a very long time. But one thing I've talked a lot about during my term of office, which I've been talking about all along and talking about, is whether we're talking about some wind-energy developers, about someone who mins or wants to mine mineral resources, about some plants, such as a pulp plant, then we've had a little bit of a discussion in Estonia that I think there's been little public debate. I very much welcome the fact that I believe that civil society has developed very strongly in Estonia over the last five or ten years. I'm going to say this wholeheartedly. I can also say that in the ministry we have involved and involve young people in the processes so that they are included. It is important here that entrepreneurs and developers, including the state and ministries, communicate with these communities and people, so that we do not go to the table with any proposals, figuratively speaking, until we have made some decisions, but we discuss the processes from the beginning. Why not also find solutions to turn it in favour of the local community and not only in the sense that the entrepreneur produces the green energy we need, but also in the sense that there is some kind of feedback, for example, in the financial value of these people. I've already given this example. When I used to practice in Germany at school, there was also a wind energy park in that area. When speaking to the locals, it turned out that they had been very opposed at first, but the developer talked to people, they were looking for opportunities, these people got a participation in the company on more favourable terms, and then they could buy more units more at a more favourable rate. Maybe we need to talk to people. Businesses also need to think more about, as far as possible, how to bring people along, so that people do not have to take on this visual pollution, for example: the power side is good, the electric side is good, but perhaps the usual outlook is lost. Here is where we need to talk more, including businesses, to make an effort to find compromises and try to find people's right solutions. Otherwise, we'll find out we're arguing about everything in court.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U78	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U79	Next, Aivar Sõerd asks and answers the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Yesterday, the government gave a press conference that introduced the state budget for next year, and today it will also be delivered solemnly. The budget statement still needs to be processed, it is quite difficult to understand, but I will ask the general question. As we know, when the government began to make the budget, there were only like disadvantages ahead, we were able to talk about meeting the deficit target, and then it was necessary to make room in the budget to allow wage increases, also for teachers. You also said in the media that it is an unpleasant surprise that ministries must start cutting back. In fact, we are now talking about the fact that there were no cuts, there were revenue-expenses and manoeuvring. You said yourself that there were things to be done in your jurisdiction, some renovations to be postponed. Since the budget explanatory memorandum does not answer that question, I am asking what kind of manoeuvring steps or cuts, how do you want to name the budget for your area of administration had to be made in order to make room for wage increases and other running costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U81	Thank you very much for a very understanding question. Indeed, if the country has this ambition that in good times it is collecting opportunities to survive bad times, then perhaps such an average person in the Republic of Estonia does not quite understand it, because if the economy is growing, everyone would want to spend it. But yes, our budget is very conservative, and that is how we view it. Education and research were, of course, a priority in this respect, that the coalition made it very clear that internal security and education and science are priorities. At the moment when we discussed what savings there were, a separate protocol was made so that areas such as education and science would be excluded from contractions. My ministry, which has four major areas of language, youth, science and education, really reviewed investments, both in the field of the Ministry of Education and Research and those carried out through the Minister of Public Administration and the RKAS. I must say that perhaps the greatest number of dreams had to be postponed and subsequent decisions in the area of RKAS had to be awaited. I assure you that there were several million of them, but since the non-behaviour of such expectations is always disappointing, it may not be nice to say them. Just as competitions do not mention people who are not elected, I would also say that a number of vocational education and training subjects are a little on hold.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U82	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U83	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, of course, for this answer. I guess, in the course of the further process of the budget, if you come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we will look at these things in more detail. But I'm gonna ask for more. The Minister of Finance, Martin Helme, commented on the same subject and answered the question of how the budget made room for electoral promises and other matters so that instead of national funds, in short, instead of spending, which had previously been planned as national budgetary resources, euro money, i.e. money from different projects from the European Union budget, was put in place. Were there such replacements in the domain of the Ministry of Education and Research?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U84	Yeah, one of the biggest objects that may be known the most is the School of Fine Arts. For the school of fine arts, the state budget was indeed planned, but it turned out that it would qualify very well to receive money from the performance reserve. The decision of the performance reserve shall be taken at the end of the year. Indeed, at the moment, the investment of the School of Fine Arts, which amounts to several dozen million, is planned out of the money for the performance reserve.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U85	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I very much like the description of your budgetary process on how to save in difficult times. This reminded me of a childhood song that sounded something like this: "Mamma-Mamma, the boy is here again, who brought me the sugar sandwich and ate it himself. " The Honorable Prime Minister is sitting next to you, and he was also in charge of the previous government. What we enjoy in this Chamber today is actually arranged by the honorable Prime Minister and his team. If I understood your previous answer correctly, you are very proud that teachers' salaries have risen 100 euros every year during these governments, for three years in a row. Now I think teachers have 65 euros to hope for. If I'm not so wrong, it shows that the teachers' pay rise has a beak down all the time. 'Beak all' means that if we think about the percentage of last year's income or salary and we put 100 euros in it every year, then oh accident, this percentage of salary increase is drying up. Did I do the right thing or did I do the wrong thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U87	Thank you, good questioner! I guess you can take it any way you want. Even with very good news, the opposition had to figure out how to show it in a negative light. Of course, it can be said that the general acceleration of economic growth will raise even more expectations and pay could always rise more. Of course! What I can praise as Minister for Education and Research more than if more resources are provided in the fields of education and research, and teachers' pay increases are even faster. That's what we'd all welcome together. But I guess we've come as far through the negotiations as we can at the moment. Of course, the Alliance of Educational Workers on the side of the Teachers' Trade Union, the local authorities and the state, all would like to channel more money into education. Well, we must work together to ensure that, for example, local authorities, whose income base is also increasing significantly by 2020, maybe, for their part, channel additional resources into education. We'll stand for it together.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U88	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U89	Next is the question of Mr Ossinovski and the Environment Minister Rene Kokk answers. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U90	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. In the last six months, the climate debate has finally reached Estonia. The catastrophic consequences of climate change are no longer visible in the world. Citizens around the world, as well as many governments, are calling for a serious and rapid response. I certainly want to congratulate you on the fact that, unlike your party's leading family, you do not deny that human activities play a role in climate change. But you have said that you are not convinced of the importance of this role, and in one interview you have said that such excessive alarmism on climate change is in vain: 'Behind such fierce quotations you must also see what this reason is. Who wants to get on the cover of the magazine or who and why makes more and less morbid statements? ' The almost one hundred percent composition of world science is expressed in reports by the IPCC, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the latter of which says for the first time and not for the first time, that it is man-made that the global warming of the climate has been nearly a degree compared to pre-industrial times. I quote the last report: 'The warming caused by man-made emissions, which has taken place to date, will last for centuries or millenniums, creating long-term changes in the climate system. ' There really is only a few differences of opinion in the scientific consensus of the world: today's climate change is largely man-made, and if we do not quickly and very fundamentally change our society, the results will be catastrophic for both humanity and the natural environment. You say that you are not convinced of the role that humanity plays in climate change. Consequently, I have a question. Are you questioning the conclusions of the global climate science on which the IPCC reports are based and on what scientific information do you base this on?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U91	Thank you, good questioner! As you yourself pointed out, there are really scientists with different opinions. In general, it seems to me that we are finding highly respected scientists with opinions, on the one hand and on the other. The fact is that climate change needs to be addressed and it needs to move towards reducing the human impact. We know very well that the number of people has almost quadrupled by 2025, and from 2 billion it will soon and soon reach 8 billion. The fact is that an ex-human is already leaving a mark on the climate because of population growth. I believe that we must continue to act to reduce CO2 emissions, but I am certainly not ready to cut into stone that this is a purely man-made problem. This, I think, also goes a little bit into the field of historians. Look at what's been going on with the climate for the last 800 years. I'm just saying we have to look at the bigger picture. We've had warmer and colder times before. In the 1970s, I read somewhere about a possible cooling and a small ice age. I think we agree together that the Estonian state, together with Europe, is also taking steps towards reducing CO2 emissions, but we are doing so sensibly so that our economy and people are not under too much pressure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U92	Thank you. Specific question, Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U93	Thank you very much. That is what the question really is about, because, or depending on what scientific information is, how critical the situation is judged. After all, it follows automatically or logically how important steps are considered necessary and, of course, when the seriousness of the situation is called into question, the answer can also be, of course, in a way like yours, that we are gradually reducing and doing so sensibly. In my opinion, it is very important to understand the picture of the world you are operating on this issue. The IPCC, which, however, brings together the global best scientific knowledge, I would say that the scientific consensus, as far as it exists on this issue, is very unambiguous and clearly states that it is a man-made effect. This is a man-made effect! The last period of global warming, from the 19th century to today's preindustrial level, has been largely man-made. You say there are scientists who say differently. In the United States, there is a very small but vocal number of scientists who say that the earth is flat, it is flat, it has all been one big conspiracy and a lie. Undoubtedly, the world is great and there are also different scientists. I ask you specifically. You said you've read something, and somehow you've developed a scepticism about a global scientific fact. What is the basis for this? What are the authoritative scientific sources on which you say that you do not really have the confidence that man is responsible for the one-degree global warming that has taken place since preindustrial times today?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U94	Thank you. Any kind of research can be done forever. As I said before, they can be ordered exactly how we wish, who orders, so it can be. What am I relying on? I rely on the knowledge and understanding of the functioning of the world that I have learned in my life. I have not said anywhere that a person has no connection with the issue of CO2, so there is no point in halving hair about it. Estonia is taking steps towards moving vigorously towards less CO2 emissions, and we are also talking about electrification of railways and other things. The fact is also that Estonia's share of CO2 emissions worldwide is 0.05%. I think that the government must make wise and balanced decisions, while moving as far as possible in the right direction, but at the same time its society and its production must not be put under unreasonable pressure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U95	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Now you've ruined the day. The Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, at our meeting just referred to various studies. We assumed they were neutral, but it turns out that whoever ordered the study will pay for the music, and the music will sound exactly as it should. That means this debate in this hall is getting pretty pointless. But my question wasn't about that. When it comes to climate neutrality, we will certainly try and evaluate our potential footprint. Yesterday, people happened to watch a show where there was a statement like this, I don't know if it's true or not, but the idea was, if you take the same electric pulse wheel, his footprint is twice that of the car, but if you put two people in the car, they're equal to the footprint. This question is a further question that people have asked for after reading information portals or guides. The other such anomaly is connected to diesel cars. The diesel cars have been clearly declared to be a global war. People ask that when they look at the CO2 figure of new cars, they realize that diesel cars are either equivalent to petrol cars or better. As a minister, have you been involved in discussions where one footprint is replaced by another and it is not a matter of profit, but of zero game? Where does this knowledge come from, and what is your personal position on this matter? What is certain is that if we exist here on earth, then surely our impact on global warming is there, the question is only how big it is and whether we can neutralize it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U97	Thank you. Absolutely correct. It certainly needs more analysis of whether a diesel car is as bad as we are talking about, and whether an electric car is as good as we have a lot of talk. The fact is, this analysis would need more. Little has been said about electric cars, however, the fact is that if an old car is taken away, the owner will receive €150 to €300 from a junkyard or Kuusakoski, but for the first generation of electric cars, the owner may have to pay €1000 to €2000 for giving up an accident car. Perhaps the point is that it certainly needs to be analyzed, which is the best way forward. As I said before, there would be alternatives to electricity, then we have taken the lead in hydrogen technology. I'm sure I'll keep the developments in hydrogen technology in the picture. A comparison of petrol cars, diesel cars and electric vehicles used today is needed to get a clearer picture of what will then be the most sensible one in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U98	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U99	Next, Heidy Purgal has a question for the Minister of Education and Finance, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U100	Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, is a matter of question. I don't think he's come to finance yet. [[H. The field is laughing.]] But thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Mart Helme introduced the draft law amending the Citizenship Act in this remote area the day before yesterday. He repeatedly referred to the text of the draft law amending the Citizenship Act as well as to draft PGS 57, which relates to the abolition of exams and citizenship together. I quote one of his answers: '... you know that we intend to equate the examinations of Estonian language and citizenship taken as the final exams of comprehensive school with those necessary for citizenship. Consequently, since everyone in Estonia has the obligation to have comprehensive school education, these exams are also clearly passed and these exams are taken into account in the acquisition of citizenship. " The original text of the Citizenship Act, on the other hand, says that the language examination does not need to be passed by the person whose parents are an Estonian citizen. Do and how do these changes to the law that have been incorporated into the cluster overlap in their claims? Or do they not overlap? In what parts do they overlap, and in what areas do they not overlap?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U101	Thank you. The Citizenship Act provides for a system that when two parents with grey passports have a child born in the Republic of Estonia, they can apply for citizenship for their children by simplified procedure. The same child, when he goes to comprehensive school, learns Estonian and maybe goes to an Estonian-language school. We have over 7,000 children who study in Russian for example in the language immersion programme, and nearly 3,000 such students study in Estonian-language school. So regardless of the choices this parent makes later and the language in which the child learns, it does not change his or her right to obtain simplified citizenship. The next step introduced by the Minister of the Interior involves these leaders when one parent has a grey passport and the other is of another nationality. These children will in principle be granted this right if they are not nationals of a third country, in which case they will only enter into force if they have renounced the third country's citizenship, and in the same way they will study in the Estonian education system. Of course, a child born in Estonia can always move out of Estonia with his or her parents, just as this movement of children always takes place. How are these laws, together or apart? We are talking about an amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act where we would harmonise opportunities and continue the possibility that is already in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. If, according to the law in force, the child takes the Estonian language examination at the end of the comprehensive school, this is also considered as a compulsory part of the citizenship exam, if it is a state examination of the basic school , but a state examination with an observer on the spot and it is assessed outside of the school, and there must be more than 60% of the points. So this threshold is pretty serious. The State, in the form of the Government of the Republic, has offered the legislator to change the procedure for the final exams of basic school, but we do not want to lose the opportunity that already exists in the law. That is why the Citizenship Act came back to the table. If there is a national 100% threshold test instead of a comprehensive school final, the same possibility that the child will not have to take a double exam later would exist. So no, they regulate different objectives: one is that they do not have to take double exams, and the other brings out one target group so that people who are not either stateless or who are nationals of another country are not re-produced.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U102	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U103	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I'm reading 57 texts of the bill. It says here that if a person has completed a basic, secondary or higher education in Estonian or passed an Estonian language examination at least B1 level when completing a comprehensive school or upper secondary school, the Estonian language exam has also been passed in terms of citizenship. Basically, when a child has graduated from a comprehensive school in Estonian, he or she already receives a note that his or her Estonian language exam has been taken. So we could gradually switch to Estonian-language education, Estonian-language comprehensive school, and the problem of citizenship would be solved. But right now, it's as if we're forcing everyone to take a social education test, so that these few young people, in their current experience, show that there are few young people who have taken advantage of this opportunity to have citizenship when they finish comprehensive school. Would the option be that if we switched to Estonian-language education, those who graduate from primary school in Estonian would be granted citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U104	Thank you very much. The Estonian language exam is mandatory for young people who speak in Estonian at home as well as for those who speak in other languages. The withdrawal of the Estonian language examination is not planned. It was probably the idea to change the title of the exam, turn it into a national test, but it has given rise to a different response. In any case, the fact that all children take an Estonian language examination at the end of the comprehensive school and at the end of the upper secondary school could continue to be whatever language they speak from home. With regard to the requirements of Estonian language proficiency, the legislator has indeed created such a system in the language law and consequently in the regulations of the Government of the Republic that, for example, if it is mandatory to require a language examination at the workplace, the employer does not need to require it when a young person has received an education in Estonian. There have been some questions that the Language Inspectorate has asked the legislator to consider. I believe that in the near future we could look at these things in the Committee on Culture. For example, in this key, the children of Estonian families study in different educational systems, such as ambassadors' families or other families. A situation has now arisen where, for example, children of the family of a very fine ambassador are basically obliged to take a language examination because they have not graduated from school in the Estonian education system and no exceptions have been provided for by the language law. So there has been an upside down situation where the family is quite clearly an Estonian family, but the children have been to the international school system outside Estonia, and in order to continue here in Estonia, children should and must take the test. Another example is the family where several languages are spoken and the children went to the Estonian education system at a time when it was not clearly stated that the bilingual school is an Estonian-language school, the person speaks the accentless Estonian language, no one has the question, but the Language Inspectorate had to make a precept a month ago and the person has to go to the language examination. Such examples make it clear that there are also upside down situations. In one way we recognise it when you go to study the Estonian education system, and say that you are good, but the other way around we have caused problems in the international system. So, in any case, I propose that these proposals of the Language Inspectorate be reviewed in the Committee on Culture in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U105	Thank you. There are no further questions on this subject. I'm gonna stop dealing with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U106	Next, Lauri Läänemets asks and answers the Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U107	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, I would like to thank you for this explanation concerning the regular evaluation of the land that is coming. This is, in my opinion, really necessary, because there is a situation in local governments where this 'border' has arrived. Even in those places where perhaps this percentage or rate should not be raised to the maximum, the lack of money has done so. But you explained that although land valuation is taking place in order to achieve the right level, the government will set limits for local authorities to apply land tax. I am quite certain that no municipality will set the maximum price itself, because they depend much more on local landowners than the government, and the local government will certainly be much better able to assess the needs of its community than any ministry or the Government of the Republic. It seems to me that this is once again the place where the government wants to restrict local self-determination and concentrate control on the government instead of allowing communities to decide for themselves. Then why don't you trust the local community to solve the problems of your own life and decide on the rate of land tax? Perhaps you can also give reasons and examples of municipalities that can't be trusted and why?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U108	Thank you, good questioner! At official level, the Ministry of the Environment is still working on bringing together the process and possible developments to the government office in January 2020. So this process is still underway. What I am talking about is the overall course of this process, which we are planning to move towards, but there is certainly no reason to fear that communication will not take place. We'll figure out how to move and what to do exactly. This process is at the very beginning. It's starting to live its own life. We're at the beginning of this, but we definitely have to go on with this. There are many local governments, farmers, real estate companies that sell real estate, the same way people who sell their land. Here was the question before, why would we do this at all if we did not immediately raise the land tax or the local government could not raise it? It's not just a land tax issue. There are many interests here. Ordinary people who today do not have access to databases of real estate companies also receive information to be informed about the market price in their region. These aspects are considerably more than the taxation of local governments alone, but they are certainly also communicated with local governments on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U109	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U110	Thank you. Local government means local self-determination. In this sense, it is a fundamental question that if you trust local people, you should trust them to make decisions. But I ask you more precisely how you consider the evaluation of the land to affect an Estonian farmer in a situation where there may be a six-fold possible increase in the price of the land, as you fear or claim, and next year's state budget has reduced the top-up of farmers from 15 million to 5 million. So how are they gonna handle it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U111	Thank you. It is still quite violent to put together these two things, top-up and land regular valuation. But I think that, since this regular land valuation has not been carried out for 18 years, it is quite reasonable for the country to propose these limits after the evaluation, so that we do not be surprised that there are municipalities in Estonia where, for example, land tax rises six times. I think it makes sense, in cooperation with the local authorities, to take off after this assessment so that we do not have to be in front of a bad surprise in the morning that there are places like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U112	Thank you. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I will try not to be violent with this question. But if I remember correctly, there were limits last time. The name of this city is Tallinn, where there was great resentment when Nõmme's pensioners began to pay several thousands of euros of land tax. I don't remember if the mayor was George Ratas or anyone else. With regard to land valuation, I would like to say that it is clear that the land is a precious commodity in one way and the other way. The Minister for Rural Affairs put forward a very ambitious idea that the State should start buying up land and those selling land to the State could be exempt from income tax. 100 million was planned for this. But now we see that there have not been 15 million in transitional payments, but 5 million in writing, which is certainly disappointing for farmers. I want to know what got caught up in this ferocious debate in the government. If the previous Head of Government, Mr Ratas, was proposed that, during the agricultural crisis, the country should not sell farmland, but that it could be used, for example, for young entrepreneurs, it was said 'no'. I am interested in what land policy and pricing policy in the broader sense means from the perspective of the Ministry of the Environment. Where was this discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U114	Thank you. This question, which you have just referred to, concerns purely the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Minister for Rural Affairs. I understand what you're talking about in the big picture, but his point hasn't gotten to the government office so far. I do not think it is right for me to give it, and I cannot evaluate something that I do not know anything about, if I have understood your question correctly right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U115	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U116	Next up, Liina Kersna. This is a question for the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U117	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The Lifelong Learning Strategy 2020 says that when assessing the learner's performance, the emphasis is on shaping assessment, which supports learning and individual development of each learner. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act says that children are generally assessed in a five-ball system, but verbal assessments can also be used in the first and second grade. At the same time, when a child changes from school to school, teachers need to make their verbal assessments numerical and beyond, i.e. in the 7th, 8th, 9th grade, as if verbal assessments should no longer be used. Very many schools are struggling with this; they do not want to convert their verbal estimates into numerical estimates. How do you feel about whether the current section of the evaluation of basic school and upper secondary school law supports a modern approach to learning or whether we could change it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U118	Thank you, good questioner! When we look at the basic school and upper secondary school law, we will certainly see many more things there that we could look at in a completely different way. Looking at yesterday and today's ongoing debate, I would like to say that maybe everything that's innovative at the same time will go a lot. But on the evaluation side, yes, really, we have a five-ball system. In Europe, it is only in two countries. The five-ball system differs from everyone else precisely because there are two negative and basically only three positive grades. Five as such can mean anything, and three as such can mean everything, four is a little bit easier, it's this yellow color between here. There are fiery supporters who say that it is long ago time to turn it into a ten-ball system, that evaluation could be a percentage, or that it could be a verbal summary when you graduate from middle school, and that it does not have to be converted into numbers at all times. As the good questioner knows, there are parents who have very heatedly called for numerical assessments in the first classes, despite the fact that in general the school has decided otherwise, and then numbers are also placed on the child, for the law says that it can require conversion into numbers. First of all, an assessment if such schools are in any case. No school in Estonia has said that it does not want to appreciate. Everyone appreciates it, it can be just verbal and explanatory assessment. Secondly, it is certainly important that, regardless of the form of the evaluation, we have moved with society as a whole to the fact that it is not a final result, but to give feedback from the process to the child and to try to explain as much as possible what could be changed. Perhaps it is important to note that schools should not have to convert their grades back into a five-ball system, the Ministry of Education and Research generally supports and is prepared for it. However, if we do so widely and at what level, we should find a consensus with all or more of society than not, then at least we should find the support of society. I'm waiting because I've seen very heated discussions about it, and usually the hall splits in half quite clearly.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U119	Thank you. Liina Kersna, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U120	Thank you for your answer. I've been to over 80 schools. In most cases, teachers bring out this nonsense and say, "Get it right." Could it be that, as a first step, we will at least change that if a child changes school in the first or second grade, they should not be given numerical grades, and perhaps also that in the third grade we would allow a full verbal assessment to be used in creative subjects, to which Tartu Elementary Schools have been transferred as a result of a single agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U121	Yes, when I actually answered the previous question, I have already referred to it and I am referring again to the fact that the readiness to not force us to convert grades to five balls at all is in the Ministry's view. This is very well-founded in terms of education policy and philosophy, because everyone who has been exposed to the design assessment knows that it is much more comprehensive, much more explanatory and requires a huge amount of more input from the teacher. When a child moves to another school with such an explanation, everyone understands what is meant for. It is no longer past smiling faces or three apples sticking, this explanatory assessment or shaping assessment is much wider. I guess these attitudes in the education system are understandable. The education system is very conservative. The attitude of not rushing too fast is understandable. But, yes, I agree with you in that respect, even though you may have gotten into more of those schools that are ready for it. But that's a bit broader. In addition to the need to convert back into a five-ball system, there is, for example, an obligation to evaluate children in certain subjects, which I also mentioned yesterday. If a child has moved between schools or come from another country, for example, he or she has not studied a subject, but since he or she is obliged to write a B grade for a diploma, the number is simply written there, although a young person may not have attended any class, but he or she may not otherwise be allowed to print a comprehensive school diploma, the system does not allow any flexibility. So there could be much more flexibility. But once again, there is a risk here, because, in the case of a school of convergence, we are also keeping the line that certain national standards should be very clear and that there should be control over the continued maintenance of these standards. So, in the case of evaluation, there is readiness, but perhaps in the Committee on Culture, inviting target groups, for example, in the light of today's amendment to this basic school and upper secondary school law, we also ask whether this readiness is, how big it is and whether the Riigikogu is prepared to amend this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U122	Thank you. Unfortunately, the clock has moved forward quickly and no further questions will be included in today's briefing. Thank you for all the questions and thank you to the ministers for their answers. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U123	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 3rd working week session of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. For starters, I ask you to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U124	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Using the words of classic Rein Lang when he came here to hand over the bill for remote control, this is an extremely good bill. The draft is handed over by Riigikogu members Kalle Laane, Jürgen Ligi, Andrus Seed, Kristen Michal, Erkki Keldo, Annely Akkermann, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Urmas Kruuse, Vilja Toomast, Jüri Jaanson, Aivar Sõerd, Ants Laaneots and Toomas Kivimägi. The purpose of this draft is to give local authorities more rights or rights. The content of this right is to give local authorities more rights to regulate the sale of alcohol on their territory. What is the content of this bill? As a result of the draft, the local government councils may stress: councils may restrict the retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the spot throughout the administrative territory or in some parts of it between 22 a.m. and 10 a.m. on the night preceding the day of rest from 00 a.m. to 10 a.m. It's a simple bill. I believe that this bill will receive a great deal of support in this Chamber, because it will give the local authority greater opportunity to decide how to organise life on its territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U125	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U126	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have a rather unique bill to submit. Unique in the sense that the draft has five signatures, one from each group, so this is a completely cross-party initiative. I was also tempted to say, looking at these names, that it would be almost like a little political talent, that performers are Black and White, Kross, Lotman and Juske. But if you get any serious, what's the point? You must have read and watched on TV last week that in Saaremaa, the most magnificent archaeological discovery of all time was found in the history of Estonian archaeology, one 1700-year-old gold bracelet and, in addition, 70 very interesting discoveries in one of the Roman iron-time sacrificial sites. This changes our understanding of Estonia's older history quite fundamentally and there is only reason to rejoice about it. What's the problem? The problem is that I do not want to open a debate with this bill on whether the law should be amended, so that if a person, such as a detector, finds some sort of archaeological thing, he will receive a finder's fee from the state if he transfers it to the state, but if the detectors are accompanied by an archaeologist, then no finder's fee will be paid. It actually sends a message that don't bring an archaeologist, if you're going to detect, the state won't pay you a finder's fee. In addition, in Saaremaa, Estonia is probably the biggest problem with the fact that in recent years very many archaeological findings have gone to the black market. Detectives and smugglers are always saying that the state is pulling your ears, don't give it to the country, sell it somewhere. So we have a proposal not to tell the Government of the Republic this time about the reward, but in this case, because it is truly a unique and valuable find, to pay the finders a bonus. That's the whole text of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U127	The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs Heili Tõnisson.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the State Fees Act, the Identity Documents Act and the Consular Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu in the proceedings of the bill. Secondly, the draft Act supplementing § 61 of the State Pension Insurance Act. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Third, the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws. Fourthly, the Draft Amending Act of 2019. And fifth, the draft state budget for 2020. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when these three draft laws are being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U129	There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six draft laws and one draft decision, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 86 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 15. Now, get your attention! Upgrade and clarification of the agenda. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu meeting regarding the transfer of the draft State Budget Act 2020. On the basis of § 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu has added to the agenda of today's sitting and added the political statement of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas as the second item of the agenda. Therefore, as soon as we have finished processing the item that moved from yesterday's agenda, it is time to listen to the Prime Minister's statement. Next, on today's third item, which is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Japan on the Right to Work of Tourism (46 SE), the Minister of Justice Raivo Aeg and today's 16th item, which shifts to 17th and is the first reading of the draft (67 OE) on behalf of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria, will be presented on behalf of the Commission by Madis Milling, Member of the Committee on National Defence. We can go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U130	Since yesterday we were in the middle of a debate on 57 draft laws amending the Citizenship Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, I ask for its continuation and presentation by Aadu Musta, representative of the leading committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The subject of the amendment of the Basic School Act, which was discussed yesterday and gave rise to many passions and opinions, was discussed by the Riigikogu in the Committee on Culture on 16 September. All members of the Commission were present. I'm not going to read the list by name. In fact, the main report was made by the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, as well as the Riigikogu Hall, and the match between what was said in the committee and what was said in the hall is very large. Most of the questions that were asked yesterday in the Chamber do not need to be repeated; they were also asked in the Commission. Most of all, when trying to save some time and group by subject, the most questions were the motives that have already been passed through the newspaper. Will the final exams disappear, what happens now from the level of education? And, indeed, such a great concern was whether the feedback to society, say, to the State Ministry and to the organisers of school life from what is going on at school might suddenly become weaker. There were also questions about the technical nature of the tests that are supposed to replace the exam. Is this a sample test or another test form? In fact, we started as we were from elementary school. So we went through purely technical, what's a test, what's an exam. Looks like at least I had a good time explaining it. I realized the test was run by specialists. When Kristin Hollo explained the whole anatomy of the tests, there was such fear or doubt that now everything was going to get out of hand, much gentleness. Again and again, are there any risks to the control and learning incentives? As you heard yesterday in this hall, many men also pointed out personal motives and explained that, look, I personally was perhaps a little dragon as a boy, but, look, when the exam was on, I learned everything very well, and it was very helpful. If you start looking at this from the other end, this talented man would have learned for every test and succeeded as well. But we didn't really go to what medics and other specialists could tell you more about. The question was, over and over again, whether objectivity towards students would increase or decrease if the test was read by other people who did not know the student. And at least the representatives of the ministry explained to us that this objectivity should increase because the teacher lost his personal motive. Now I'm going to hurry and bring in a personal motive quickly. I also think that if only the work of the name, student and face are not in front of it, then it should be more objective. There was a case in my life when I learned two things one day: that I got a grade in history, not five, but four, because the teacher thought that too much would explain and want to be smarter, and the same day that I got a grade down, a letter came from an important city that I was the winner of the Republican History Olympiad. So sometimes maybe there's somewhere to tilt objectivity. What was said yesterday was also quite important. Still, this question of citizenship, what about the citizenship exam? Is this some kind of mouse hole, rathole or secret hole suddenly inside the citizenship ship when any other exams get the citizenship exam passed? In general, and this has already been discussed in several previous formations of the Riigikogu Committee on Culture, it is if a person who has graduated from Estonian school does not have to take another exam or a second and a third one. That's a lot of trust in the school. We were assured that 16-year-old children were already going to choose; they still need to be required to check the knowledge of a rather normal, demanding level of citizenship before finishing comprehensive school, so we call it an exam or test, rather a test. There was also an earlier one, in the Committee on Culture all the time, I dare say that, over many years, the multiplicity of exams has been a problem. This is a repeated discussion from the Commission itself as to whether exams must be passed during the summer. Here it seems that the medical team and the prominent part of the pedagogues emphasise that teaching must take place on a regular basis, that checks must be regular, just as this test system is designed and should work, but not that there is a test factory. Somewhere between six and seven years ago, the same topic was raised in the Committee on Culture from a different angle when a major initiative came to Estonia, which decided to take a factory of exams, where it was found that each profession has to take many professional examinations. It was promised to make an enormously large institution and then the Riigikogu continued to have the wisdom to vote it down and say that listen, there is no need for exam factories, these things must be resolved simply, sensibly and simultaneously. Personal motives are not very important, but I still remember one of the peasant wisdom. Personally, I like it when it's the same as for students that if you don't just have to study for an exam, you'll learn better and have a more permanent understanding. Another personal observation is that my great-grandfather was a lifelong mayor who did a strange thing: he passed on his mayor's position to his son. This could not have been done in the Republic of Estonia. Well, that's what happened. He has also broken the law once when a letter came from an inspector of the Czarian folk high schools and said that the school year should be extended at the expense of the summer. Then he had broken the law and declared: it is not, George's Day, well, we are not talking about such an early time; children and animals must be brought to pasture, for our northern summer is beautiful but shy short. This motive goes through here, too. If there are any questions, in fact, you would probably deserve to go over it, if someone asks why they don't call him by his name, that he asked such a good question, then the protocol comes along, I can also repeat it to everyone interested, who just asked the question. The Commission did not shape either a 'yes' or a 'no' decision, but we do have an understanding: there is still a lot of work to be done with this draft. The Commission intends to bring together representatives of stakeholders. There will certainly be amendments from both the political groups of the Riigikogu and from the Commission itself. It's obviously pretty natural. It was easier during the insistence period, then we pointed our finger at Moscow and said, "Why aren't they doing it?" Yesterday we tended to have a way of not doing it. But we'll do it, we'll do it together. It should be a law that makes things a little easier, more normal and better. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U132	Thank you. You have questions too. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U133	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! Yesterday, the Minister tried to claim that teachers supported this bill. At the same time, we know that a number of associations of subjects have expressed concern and are opposed to this bill in this form, but I will ask you from another angle as a university lecturer. Yesterday, the minister repeatedly said that basic school exams should be abolished, because all young people will be taking entrance exams at the upper secondary school anyway. We know that this is not true, because not all young people continue their studies in upper secondary school and the level of entrance examinations is very, very different from school to school. I ask you, as a lecturer, do you consider it important for young people to have an experience of taking exams in primary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U134	In fact, the whole debate, especially in the press, has spread to a so-called philological topic or name. Basically, the end result of our whole debate was that we realized that we could also rename all tests as exams and take six exams for each block of subjects within a year, if anyone has the word 'experimental' awfully close to their soul. Basically, the question is whether control is ongoing,'something scattered', or whether it is big, serious, campaigning. Looking at the university, I think it is entirely possible that the university's control system is more serious, tougher, because children are already bigger and more serious and ready to face greater challenges. I think there could be a regular system of tests in middle school. There could also be some exam that, as a good colleague says, get a little taste of serious things into your mouth. The school's given it a chance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U135	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U136	Good President! Dear Professor Black! I'm quoting a letter from all of us at our e-mail address this morning. The author of this letter is Mrs. Eda Rüütel, who is also a member of the Estonian Conservative People's Party: 'Let once the teachers do their work in a calm manner, to teach and the students to study hard, to show their knowledge through the exams at the end of the school. Examinations are an education engine. " Nearly 10,000 students in the ninth grade of this year are now eagerly waiting for them to take the test in the spring or not, and so do their teachers. Would it not be right, however, to say now that those who study in the ninth grade this year and receive the 9th grade diploma in the spring of 2020 will still take the final exam to gain school peace, gain peace of teaching and learning and become clear in the house? It's about this year. After all, we do not know how long it will take for the debate in the Committee on Culture with the various stakeholders, because there is a second reading, because the third reading is.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U137	I'll start at the end. Obviously not only the Committee on Culture, but also the whole hall will ultimately decide what is the date of entry into force of this document. And what period it will accurately reflect at the end of the day, and which flight it will fly according to the law, is a question of its own. However, I would like to respond even a little further away, and just trust the teachers. I had an interesting occasion to talk to our Committee on Culture and our Swedish colleague on education, whom we met 27 years ago as young fun archives-- I'm sorry, not the archives, but in this case, the people of the belief in education. In the meantime, a good colleague has grown from a boy to a great man and has also been a minister in Sweden, etc. So we were talking about teachers. He said that both you and we have divided teachers into quite a few groups. Indeed, some are those who, at some point in time, excelled at us, we have also seen them in the Commission, who are such hard-earned to rip off the blanket and say that there is too much feeling of Estonian, give mathematics or something else. So sometimes they have this kind of professional interest and something like that. There are teachers who really want to be strong and serious. So you have to listen to teachers' opinions, but they are also quite different, and you have to look at who is wearing nostalgia. It is probably not as important as what method we use. In everything, we need to see how he will ultimately benefit society more, and that is what we are trying to do. You and I, my dear colleague, will be able to analyse this in the Commission if we are to examine it seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U138	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U139	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have been following this draft discussion in this Chamber and listening to my colleagues in the Commission, and we in the group have been talking about this as well. Although I have the impression that this draft is not a small problem, it is a big problem and a very broad debate. On this basis, I have the question of how amendments can be tabled, which can be discussed at all in a situation where, even at the time of the presentation of the draft, the Minister brings in new ideas. Maybe I got the impression that the bill keeps changing, that he's not what's on this paper. How can it be handled correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U140	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, The discussion on this draft was very broad, in particular because the educational problems are serious at all, acute and affect our future, and when discussing this draft, parallel issues came in. Even though teachers' salaries, though work inequality, were constantly introduced, it came up to whether, for example, a mathematics teacher who takes the examinations should receive as little pay as any other teacher who does not have so many exams, etc. I would stress that the things that came up, at least in the Commission, were not linked to the direct text of the draft, but all in this area, and that education issues remain serious, remain difficult and require constant attention is inevitable. As far as this Chamber is concerned, it is as if new issues have come along, that is not quite the case, and that is not the case in the Commission. At first, there was something generally said to the listeners who had not worked out this draft themselves, which was unclear and a number of things were explained in a simpler and broader way. So, if you watch carefully, things eventually went not wider, but rather into blocks and rather into "concrete" boxes of topics. That's what I think it is. I am sure that concrete suggestions for improvement will come into play, and I am also counting on your experience and assistance here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U141	Leo Kunnas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I had a pretty big debate at home last night with my daughter, who just graduated from middle school. As a result of this debate, I have formulated this question for you: have you considered or discussed in the Commission the impact that the transition to the new system would have on the various groups of primary graduates? As we know, not all go to upper secondary school, upper secondary schools have different levels, some go to vocational schools. Unfortunately, there is also a group of students who do not continue their education at all or who continue to do so at work and at night school. How could this change in the system affect these different groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U143	The question is a good one, and I'd like to answer it. I'm a little embarrassed, because now that I'm starting to say that I know everything, the comrades are saying, "Hey, we didn't discuss this. Yes, it was. These nuances probably come between second and third readings. For my part, however, I dare say that the new system is likely to be sufficiently stimulating for those who do not go to upper secondary school, because I still do not want to fail any of the current tests, and I do not want to get bad grades. He should be, in my understanding, less stressful, but maybe we can get to the other results. At least I've heard the opinion from the medical team who say that don't then sow our children as well as anyone who isn't so capable of being inferior to the complex and constant depression. However, this was not an entirely honest answer because the Commission has not yet analysed it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U144	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I will open the negotiations of the political groups. First of all, on behalf of the Heidy Purga Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U145	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start my presentation with a very succinct quote from a teacher on this particular draft, and he has said: 'As a teacher, I am very stressed by a situation where I must constantly find new resources at the expense of my student work and my family, with every so-called wind change in the educational landscape, in order to implement the new and contradictory goals imposed on me. Autonomy means partial independence, shared responsibility. Respect for autonomy also means a respectful attitude to our position when we say that the responsibility imposed on us, or on teachers and schools at national level, to assess and analyse the implementation of the curriculum in a high-quality and sustainable manner is beyond our means alone. ' To begin with, the Reform Party Group has not yet fully developed its position on this draft, and here are some of the most important reasons why. Firstly, the draft reached the Committee on Culture only a week ago. According to the Reform Party, this time is too short to process such an important amendment even at first reading. Secondly, the Reform Party advocates that different interest groups, including students themselves, through their representative organisations, can necessarily take part in these discussions, say their word, and analyse the situation. At the moment, we see that the involvement of different stakeholders has not been sufficient. The reasons put forward by the Ministry do not give us full understanding of where, how and by what time we are expected to arrive. Any amendment to the law should have a definition of solving the problem. Neither the draft nor the explanatory memorandum clearly present a problem that needs to be resolved and therefore it is not possible to assess the purpose of the amendment. It is unacceptable to underestimate the faculty as well as students who, when starting the academic year, do not know how it ends with or without exams. This is a violation of the principle of legal certainty. Fourthly, the fact that, in addition to losing the final exams of basic school, this same amendment deals with issues of citizenship, which are not the most practical way to deal with and creates a degree of confusion between the two issues. The amendment of the Citizenship Act also requires a substantive discussion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Fifth, the exams. The abolition of basic school final exams with common tasks and the restoration of school-based comprehensive school final exams or the preparation of tests for every school in which grade 9 is about to complete means a new and very responsible burden. At the moment, it is still unclear how this will be resolved. Last but not least, very many associations and specialists have said: the Republic of Estonia's largest resource today is educated people; in order to ensure the sustainability of our society, it would be necessary to maintain the existing level of education as a minimum and work hard to ensure that development is maximum. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, taking all this together, the Reform Party proposes to reject the 57 drafts at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U146	Thank you. Katri Raik, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U147	Ladies and gentlemen, I would start by saying that one speaker in favour of losing basic school exams gave a beautiful example. The girl's got a beautiful dress, all women know that the most important dress in life is a comprehensive school graduation dress next to a wedding dress, but this dress stays in the closet because the final exam for basic school is not passed. As a teacher, I began thinking about what I would do as a headmaster. I'd find a way to give you over three quarters of grade testimony between the same covers so she doesn't feel bad. It turned out that in reality this same evening the school exam is being passed and still, as young people would say, everything is in the water, but whether the yoke is OK, that is a separate question. This is not an example of a beautiful dress at the moment, but an example of a good quality of education and a sense of responsibility. A quick exam, taking some kind of exam, certainly doesn't guarantee the quality of education. Our school is increasingly dependent on school and its leadership. Differences between schools, educational stratification has increased, and this is not a slogan that you like to say, but is highlighted by the latest Estonian educational studies and the latest OECD educational comparisons. That's the main reason why basic school finals should stay. Once again, the Social Democrats are taking action against educational stratification here. International studies also confirm that the success of Estonian education has been based on balanced and negotiated decisions. As already mentioned by the previous speaker, this draft law came at the last moment in the Committee on Culture, of which I am a member, and I would like to stress that two members of the Commission did not vote in favour of bringing it to the Chamber so quickly for the first reading. The decision is now being made too quickly. Rather, it creates inequalities between schools. We are not sure whether weaker schools are able to re-orient so quickly and prepare their own exams at the appropriate level. But the most important thing is to convince the teacher of the change. If teachers are not convinced that this is a good change and teachers' associations are opposed to the mother tongue teachers, science teachers, mathematics teachers, then without convincing teachers, nothing good comes out of any change in education. I would also like to point out that we are dealing with one very small part of the major challenges facing Estonian education. I asked the Minister of Education today about the age of the teachers. Of our science teachers, one in four or five is over 60 years old. If we take our first row, at least three are over 60 years old, one is less than 30 years old, and the other eight are the same age as me. The Minister of Education replied that we have many teachers, that there are regional differences, but that does not change the age of the teacher. We need to change something quickly in our teacher training. But I also want to draw attention to a study recently carried out by Praxis. We're growing educational stratification. We are very clearly developing weaker schools. Going from country to town is no longer easy, and I don't want to call on the weaker schools to shut down, for God's sake. Our schools need help, we have to help our weaker schools, we are a small country, we want life to be everywhere in Estonia. I am sorry, but I also propose that the Social Democratic Party reject the amendment at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U148	Thank you. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U149	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Last night, unfortunately, I missed the debate that was going on in this hall. This meeting had been agreed several months earlier with my colleague, Helmen, and we consulted the heads of the Social Security Service from the cities of Ukraine on how to organise the social assistance system. Maybe I'll come to that at the end. But because of that, I read yesterday's verbatim and I got the impression that there was some kind of test cult in this hall. Given our average age, it's quite understandable that if I personally took over 70 exams at two colleges, I imagine that if we put together all of our exams, this number could be like 5,000 or 6,000. And now, having this experience, ask yourself whether these thousands of exams or specifically your 40, 50, or 70 exams have something you can repeat now. The exam is some kind of finish, the exam shows some kind of result. As a colleague with whom I am fully in solidarity said yesterday that, if necessary, he could prepare for the exam in a few days. Yeah, he did. What's after that? Practically nothing. So the main question that lies before us about this draft is, however, whether a change in the system provides an opportunity to check that each student has a better level of knowledge. Not that he's going to perform some kind of heroic activity at the end of the sail, but whether the whole learning process has been carried out in the right and most effective form. I don't think this bill is perfect. I have to admit, there's practically no such thing coming here for us. We wouldn't have been needed if we didn't have to work in the Commission. And we're working on it, that's our job. We have that opportunity. The Minister said yesterday that there are actually three options, three options, for the realisation of this idea. It's our choice. With interest groups, along with specialists from the Ministry of Education, we have this opportunity in full. But if you reject the bill today, there won't be a chance. That means it's been cornered again, and for years, someone's been working on it. I'd even say he's threatening with this idea, but we don't even know if it makes sense or if it makes no sense. For those of you who are here for a long time, I would like to remind you of something like the law of debt. At the time, in the 1990s, at the end of the 1990s, the Riigikogu did not ask whether it was of sufficient quality or not. It was done. Well, it's some sort of exception, of course, but I think it's been done for five or six years, but it's practically impossible to imagine a life without the Law of Obligations, especially when you're dealing with legal issues, isn't it? But I remember very well how this remote was said that the bill is in such a state that we just throw it in the corner and don't deal with it anymore. Our job is to deal with every project they bring here. If those who chair our education system think that this may be useful, I call on you, at least, in the Committee on Culture, to deal with this matter. Right now, if you reject it, we're just giving up. Another problem can be thrown overboard simply because we do not want to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U150	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U151	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! The Isamaa Group also had rather heated debates on this subject, and education is an area that affects everyone and, unfortunately, everyone thinks he is a specialist in this field. Our final decision was that this draft must certainly be moved forward and that the first reading should be completed. I would like to add some personal remarks as to why I am a rather heated supporter of this draft, including the most problematic part of it, which concerns a significant reduction in the part of the exams and perhaps the loss of them at all. I'm a very successful tester myself. I graduated from the university with a red diploma in all fives and passed the candidate's minimum exams at Moscow University for all fives, including the most difficult exam in life, the two-day German exam was five. And now I'm asking if I speak German. I do a bit, but I'm sure I'm not great. I'd say it was like an athletic result with doping. I was through the days, say, a week on coffee only, and I was just banging German. When I came to the exam, it was like I had tables from Vändra, as the faculty at the universities say. In Russian, I didn't pass the exam, but zdal, I gave it away, everything! Now that's the exam factory that starts in high schools. Successful completion of the exam and knowledge of the subject are different things and these are different skills. I'm not saying that taking exams is not good. It really helped me out, but that doesn't mean I'm good at these things. I learned a second experience when I was a visiting professor at Stanford University, and Stanford University is always one of the top five. I gave some drugs there, and then it turned out that the substance wasn't going to end with anything, not a count or an exam. I said, "But how do you do that?" They get these credits for participating. Doing a job in a semester is doing it. And it ain't no village university out there. I do not want to say that this is such a universal solution for all universities and all subjects, but when we talk about school education, even upper secondary school education, these exams are often unnecessary. First, it's a pointless extra stress for the student, and second, they're orienting the learning process in the wrong direction. Not to master the subject, but to pass the exam. Many teachers are consciously or subconsciously involved in this. In Russian, the term nataskivat is for the examination to be prepared for, and this teacher, unfortunately, cannot be said to be limited, but this is, unfortunately, the most important part. So I am absolutely convinced that this draft must go ahead and that our group's opinion and proposal are to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U152	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Conservative Party, I now ask Mr Pohlak!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you. There have also been many questions about this draft in the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. I won't deny that we're skeptical. Such changes require in-depth discussion, certainly involving stakeholders and teachers, school leaders. But my proposal is that we are doing this debate in the Commission, we are sending this draft to a second reading today, which does not oblige us to accept it, and let us see if and if what changes can be made there. Perhaps, then, my proposal is not to support a proposal to suspend the procedure for this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U154	Thank you. All the political groups have been negotiating, and since the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Reform Party Group have proposed to reject the draft 57 SE at first reading, we are going to vote on these proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, attention! I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Reform Party Group to reject the draft law amending the Citizenship Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act (57 SE) at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Thus, the first reading of the draft has been completed and I will set the deadline for the submission of 57 amendments, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, our first item today has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U155	We will proceed to the second item on the agenda. Political statement by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas regarding the transfer of the draft State Budget Act 2020. I'm asking for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas of the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U156	Very honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good Estonian people! I am very happy to hand over to the Riigikogu the first draft state budget prepared by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Pro Patria Party and the Government of the Estonian Centre Party. For the largest budget of all time, we owe thanks to Estonia's good entrepreneurs, who have worked for the development of our economy, and to the people of Estonia who have all contributed to this work over the years. The government will continue with a conservative fiscal policy with a structural balance at the heart of which it will take into account the state of our economy and prospects for the future. The budget is nominally balanced and structurally in deficit at 0.7% of GDP. We improved the structural balance by 0.5% of GDP this year and next year so that there would be a deficit of 0.2% in 2021. We reach a structural balance in 2022. Next year's budget expenditure and investment will amount to around EUR 11.6 billion, and revenue will be estimated at EUR 11.8 billion. Estonia's tax burden will remain at 33.2% of GDP in the next two years and will fall to 32.7% of GDP in 2022. The general government debt ratio is falling both in euro and as a share of GDP, from 8.8% this year to 8% in 2020. This means a reduction in absolute values from 2.4 billion to 2.3 billion euros. The state budget is certainly not a financial document in itself, but must serve the people of Estonia and the state in the best possible way and promote the objectives of the government. That is why we want to pay clear attention to the areas of state and social life that need most support and assistance, with the 2020 state budget, ensuring that Estonia continues to develop rapidly, but also reduce social inequalities. Today's draft budget is based on the five priorities agreed upon in the formation of the government. First, a family-friendly Estonia where people feel safe and secure. Secondly, a cohesive society, whose members feel involved and the divisions between different social groups are narrowed. Thirdly, the knowledge-based economy and the development of lifelong learning. Fourthly, effective governance to ensure that communication with the state is simple and smooth, and fifthly, a safe and protected country where all fundamental rights and freedoms are equally guaranteed. Honourable ambassadors! The Estonian economy is doing well. Its rapid growth has covered almost all sectors: construction, trade, services. Exporting companies have also been successful, although the growth in exports slowed in the second quarter. However, 5% growth is shown in the first quarter of this year and 3.6% in the second quarter is a very good result. We also see that the picture has already changed slightly in the second half of the year. We now know that the growth of both exports and industrial production slowed in the summer. Our economy is small and open, and the welfare of our neighbours therefore affects us. It is therefore understandable that less favourable export opportunities will also have an impact on our own growth potential. The conditions that have supported our rapid development for years have started to change, and the Estonian economy is facing some cooling. The Ministry of Finance predicts that next year gross domestic product will increase by 2,2%. This is certainly not an increase to be satisfied with, and we are capable of more. At the same time, it is difficult to resist global trends, and we must therefore make an effort to move forward as quickly as possible in the current situation. Greater growth opportunities lie mainly in whether we can increase the productivity of our companies. To this end, we need to increase competitiveness, expand activity in target markets and sell more and for more money. The labour market situation also directs innovation to automate and digitise its processes, and lower demand to improve its products and services. New and important opportunities are often created in the economy as well as in life in general in the face of challenges. That is why we need to work harder next year to be faster, more flexible, smarter and more efficient in our activities. The same must certainly be done by the government sector. Honourable listeners! In 2020, Estonia's defence costs will remain above 2% of GDP, which will amount to approximately 615 million euros in monetary terms next year. This includes the costs of receiving allies of 10 million euros and 20 million euros of additional defence investments. In order to ensure independent and collective security, Estonia continues to participate in several international military operations. Among the important activities, the National Defence Development Plan will continue to be implemented for the years 2017 to 2026. The Defence Forces are preparing for the deployment of mobile artillery in power development and continuing training in infantry battle vehicles. The plan is to buy large-calibre ammunition to ensure sufficient equipment for the military structure of the Defence Forces, new handguns will be deployed, and the anti-tank systems of the infantry brigade will be replaced. Awareness of the situation at sea is also planned to be improved with a view to enhancing the early warning and cooperation with allies. R &amp; D funding from the state budget will increase in the next year in the area of several ministries, compared to the total amount of almost EUR 16 million this year, including EUR 5.3 million from the R &amp; D grant and basic research funding facility. In total, the state budget contributes 216 million euros to R &amp; D. In this respect, the sector's share of gross domestic product is also increasing, and our desire is certainly to take important steps forward to reach the 1% target of the research agreement. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I also consider it very important that we, as a country, be able to ensure the dignity of our old age, in recognition of the fact that they have contributed a great deal to the construction and development of our country in their long years of work. According to Statistics Estonia, 47.5% of our older people lived in relative poverty in 2017. Raising the basic part of pensions will play a very important role in combating this. I am therefore pleased that, from 1 April 2020, the average old-age pension will rise by EUR 45, which means that, for example, for the 44-year-old, the old-age pension will be EUR 528 per month in the coming months of the year. The government is contributing EUR 20.8 million to an extraordinary pension increase and this is the largest pension increase in the last 12 years, giving the average elderly an additional EUR 540 per year. The increase in the basic part of pensions concerns nearly 330000 people in Estonia, and this is the first step in raising the well-being of the elderly, to which we definitely want to pay attention with the subsequent budgets. The last time the government raised pensions in exceptional circumstances was by decision of 2007 when the Minister of Social Affairs was Jaak Aab, and no intermediate coalition has contributed to this later. I would also like to point out that the governments of the Centre Party have raised an old-age pension of EUR 132 per year between 2017 and 2020 or an average of EUR 33 per year. The previous governments raised the old-age pension of 90 euros in 2011/2016, or on average 15 euros per year, of which the increase for the coming year alone is three times higher. I would like to congratulate and thank our coalition partners, with whom we have been able to take these important steps for all the elderly in two successive governments. In addition to the rise in pensions, it is very important to pay attention to our working people. That is why the government decided to allocate additional money to increase the payroll fund for teachers, state-paid social workers, cultural workers, and also to contribute to the area of internal security. The state will also continue to support municipalities with EUR 15 million so that the average pay for kindergarten teachers is similar to the minimum wage for school teachers. It is also worth highlighting the fact that there have been very clear results in valuing the teaching profession, as studies show that the number of teachers who feel that their profession has been valued in society has doubled in five years. In order to increase the wage fund for internal security staff, the government allocated an additional amount of EUR 7 million in the draft state budget for 2020, of which EUR 5.2 million goes to the area of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which analyses which positions have the greatest need for wage increases. The payroll is divided between police officers, rescuers, prison guards, customs officials, environmental inspectors, and many other agencies that are important to us. The salaries of social rehabilitation, special care and replacement care specialists for state-paid workers will rise by an average of 2.5% next year. The exact wage increase is determined by the employer from whom the service is ordered and, in the case of replacement care, the extra money is allocated to the local government income base. To this end, an additional EUR 1 million is planned in the state budget in 2020. The wages of cultural workers are also close to the average wage in Estonia. It is planned that EUR 2.3 million will be devoted to the labour costs of cultural workers and coaches. The government allocated an average of 2.5% to increase the payroll fund in the areas mentioned in its proposal. Each ministry can also find additional opportunities for wage increases within the budget of its own administration, and the exact distribution of the additional money will be decided by each government area and institution. The Health Insurance Fund's budget will increase by nearly 140 million euros next year, with the state budget allocation for non-working old-age pensioners increasing by 25 million euros. The main areas for next year are primary care, child-oriented services, mental health and oncology and haematology, including cancer screening. At the first level, it is planned to extend the fields of e-consultation, review the principles of funding and, if possible, channel regional fees to family doctors. The wage increase of health care workers will continue and the country will channel EUR 50 million to ensure a wage agreement. In total, nearly 1.68 billion are planned for health care in the state budget. Honourable listeners! As very important and long-awaited decisions, the government will invest around EUR 80 million next year to support the organisation of institutions in providing the necessary services by creating a modern working and service environment. As one of the priorities, 44 million additional euros will be invested in the buildings of the Police and Border Guard Board and the Rescue Board in Estonia until 2024. Designs start next year and then you can start with real construction. In addition, the government has already decided earlier on the construction of the joint buildings of the PBA and the Rescue Board in Pärnu and Sillamäe. Reconstruction of the Rescue Board's commandos in Nõmme and Lilleküla in Tallinn is also underway. The buildings of Sillamäe, Nõmme and Lilleküla will be completed in the following year and in Pärnu in 2021. Next year the construction of Tallinn Music and Ballet School will begin and we have agreed to build a new house for national broadcasting. In addition, over five years, we will allocate nearly EUR 34 million to the construction of 19 state buildings in county centres. The first opened in the spring of this year in Viljandi and the next will be completed in Rapla, Valga, Jõgeva and Pärnu. Honourable ambassadors! Very important, and I believe that the area close to our hearts is the good management and development of Estonian municipalities, because they provide many of the necessary services to our people. In 2020, local governments will receive nearly EUR 55 million more than they would have received without a further increase in the income base in 2018, and the share of personal income tax they will receive will be 11.96% in the new year. The revenue of our municipalities will increase by over 2.3 billion euros next year, and this will mean an increase of 27% over the last two years. Both the good tax receipts and the state's decision to increase municipal income tax and the income from the Equalisation Fund by an additional €185 million in total between 2018 and 2021 have contributed to the rapid increase in revenue. Investments in dust-free coatings on gravel roads are certainly important for rural areas, with an additional EUR 10 million planned next year, or 16 million in total. Next year we will go further with the implementation of all regional programmes. These include programmes to implement Ida-Virumaa, South-East Estonia, Peipsivere, Setomaa, diffuse settlements, small islands, local initiative and regional development strategies. National budget support for regional aid will increase by one million euros next year and total regional development will be supported by 17.1 million euros. In addition, the amounts of aid to be paid out of external resources and quota revenue will be added. As a signicant decision, I would also like to highlight the issues of the large islands' connection, such as bringing a larger plane to the Kuressaare-Tallinn route, compacting winter charts on the Rohuküla-Heltermaa route and obtaining a ferry in addition to the route from summer to summer. It is also planned to expand the start and success of the last year, which will direct Estonian-language teachers to kindergarten groups with Russian language. In the previous academic year, 53 groups took part and in 2020 it will reach more than 150 kindergarten groups as well as the first classes of general education. To this end, an additional amount of EUR 3 million will be allocated. Our goal is to reach all kindergarten groups and primary classes. In addition, with an additional EUR 2 million, we provide even more support for adult education in Estonian to satisfy the increased desire to study in free state language courses. I would also specifically like to highlight the Global Estonia programme in order to design policies concerning national partners, analyse and assess the necessity of the foundations of nationalist politics and coordinate the development of policy bases if necessary. Members of the Riigikogu! Finally, I am pleased to confirm that the government is already taking the budget review seriously in the budgetary process for next year. It must give us a comprehensive picture of the country's activities and services and show whether the expenditure we spend is always targeted at the right place and serving our people and our country in the best way. Not just to make savings, but to make things better. I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance, other ministries, the State Chancellery and all our officials for their hard work in preparing the budget. I also sincerely recognise the coalition partners from the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the party of the Fatherland and my home party. Similarly, I thank all the other parties represented in the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu, Eesti Pank and the private sector and civil society associations for their good thoughts and important input. The 2020 budget is coming up thanks to all the parties mentioned, and I call, of course, for Members to support it. Thank you for listening. I wish the honourable Riigikogu a good and constructive debate on the state budget. Power to Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U157	Thank you, Prime Minister. It has been agreed that no questions will be asked about such a statement, as has been the case in history. However, negotiations are possible and political group representatives will get the floor in the negotiations. The first to register is Indrek Saar from the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U158	Thank you. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U159	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U160	Prime Minister! Honourable Riigikogu! 'Jak, the ground, the fucking feet are already at the bottom! " This cry of Reinu, the end of the Cross, always comes back to mind when you look at the government of the state budget that brought before us and remember all that was promised to us before the elections. The well - known story of Juhan Liv is still reminiscent of the men's death on Peipsi in the days of the ice, and great vows were made. Who promised never to beat a woman again, to trick a merchant, or to steal from a neighbor who would give a chandelier to the church. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and the Centre Party also had a grand promise to raise the average old-age pension by EUR 100 in 2020 to the memory of everyone, because 'only an extraordinary increase in pensions will guarantee an average old-age pension of EUR 700 by 2023'. The Centre Party did not want to succumb to the EKRE, which promised to bring the pension to EUR 800 in four years. But in the budget, one of their main election promises, which was an extraordinary pension increase, has come in the right wrong form. Perhaps, as more than a hundred years ago, two men on Peipsi, on the Cherry Mountain Jaguar and on the Ristiotsa Reinu, so today's government failed to make promises as soon as the underfoot became more secure. The chandelier is a chandelier, thinks Rein and presents a small candlestick instead of a permitted chandelier. However, the current government decided to increase supplementary pensions by only EUR 7, which in no way, together with the mandatory increase in pensions, i.e. the additional EUR 38 resulting from indexation, totals EUR 100. In other words, before the March elections, Jüri Ratas and Mart Helme went around the country for months and told the elderly that they were facing a decent pension increase that would help pensioners out of the poverty trap. The seven euros do not do this in any way, especially when we think about the price increase. The seven euros have a mixed effect, to put it plainly. In addition, old-age pensioners will have to pay income tax for the part of the pension that exceeds EUR 500 next year. Unfortunately, bad news is not enough for people of dignified age. There is no betrayal of the budget plan that the government has started to tackle the problem of informal care, which was also acutely elevated before the elections. Although the average old-age pension exceeds 500 euros, it is in no way a solution for people who are no longer able to cope independently at home and need a place in a nursing home. Those who believed in the coalition parties' promises of funding science were also deceived. The three-year plan to reach 1% of gross domestic product with public R &amp; D &amp; I funding remains a 0.03% increase. If we continue in this way, Estonian scientists should wait at least another ten years. Will scientists still be willing to trust a corrupt government or will they gradually pack bags and move to work and live in countries where the government has realised that economic growth is not based on cheaply sold vodka and tobacco, but on the contribution of science to economic development? Unfortunately, there is nothing to be expected of people who are paid by the state. It seems that the 2.5% wage fund increase here and there has only been made for a little bit to report how the government is still raising salaries, as the average wage is growing almost three times faster, this year, according to the Ministry of Finance's forecast of 7.2%. As a reminder, in the five years that the Social Democrats held government responsibility, for example, teachers' wages rose by 56% and this was significantly faster than the average wage increase. However, similar sad examples could be given of the wages of cultural workers, policemen and rescuers, so there is no reason to wonder if there is a shortage of workers and an increase in the average age in these areas, which are very important for our society. Young people will not be misled by the government's eloquences and will, unfortunately, vote with their feet. Undoubtedly, the regionally uneven development of Estonia and the resulting inequality of people and opportunities is one of the most serious problems of our country. The leaders of all three political parties belonging to the government have spoken about stopping peripheralisation and promoting local life. This was done both before and after the elections. Mart Helme, for example, declared ten days after the elections when the power coalition was being whacked together: was to fight for more jobs in regions far away from the attraction centers. Small schools, kindergartens, medical care, rescue services and other public services must be maintained in the country. What has happened to the budget? What's happened more widely in the meantime? What is the promised effective regional policy? In reality, the PBA will close the ID card issue points in small towns and plans to close the Haapsalu Marine Rescue Unit, which is then the country gradually shrinks in many places. Permission has been requested to close 52 other post offices and pick up nearly 400 mailboxes. At least on the initial survey, there is nothing in the budget that would make rural areas develop more quickly and stimulate local life. The crappy cherry cake has been tricked by farmers. The budget is divided by three times the amount promised for the transitional payments, i.e. the top-up money has fallen from EUR 15 million to EUR 5 million. However, the Minister for Rural Affairs has just recently confirmed that additional direct payments will also be paid in full in agriculture next year. It is unlikely that the 10 million cut at the expense of farmers and the budgetary decisions already described will create more jobs in regions beyond the centres of attraction. The government wants to state, among other things, that it is family friendly, and in order to achieve this goal, it will reduce the number of children living in absolute poverty by 0.1% in four years. Colleagues, I must remind you how child poverty is reduced. In 2014, the Social Democrats agreed to come to government only if there was a significant increase in child support and this can certainly be confirmed by reform parties. We raised the first and second child support from EUR 19 to EUR 45 per month in one year, and the number of children living in absolute poverty fell from 9.1% to 5.1%. This is 40 times more in one year than the current government wants to do in four years. But we continued our fight against child poverty and today the first and second children receive 60 euros per month and the number of children living in absolute poverty has fallen to 3.2%. In recent days, we have suddenly seen that the Prime Minister loves to talk about the tax bat, but he has brought us a budget where no change can be seen. The Social Democrats are very willing to discuss the introduction of a progressive tax system and we consider it extremely important to discuss the increase in the tax-free rate, which would help both the elderly and the low earners. We are always ready to discuss how to shift the tax burden from low-wage earners to those who do better and whose shoulders can carry more. The coalition's only fiscal policy option so far is to play with excise duties on alcohol and tobacco. Can do better, respectables! We can rejoice that the economy will continue to grow, but if the people of Estonia do not get a part of it, it is still a crippled story. The Social Democrats are working in the autumn to make the 2020 budget more caring and responsible. In summary, it has to be said that alongside some small things, such as the increase in the support of the gene pool of nearly 2 million, and the additional money found for adults to teach the Estonian language, all the things that the government reports in its budget winnings have been done by the previous governments, some of them already. Perhaps this is a budget of disappointments, the government has gone under the bar and broken its word.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U161	Thank you. Mr Pohlak on behalf of the EKRE Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft budget is now ready to be seen by everyone, and now I think it would be quite appropriate to recall the summer stories when it seemed that the sky was about to fall on the ground, the big layoffs ahead, the cuts, all the increases in wages will be cancelled. You all remember that well. The panic-crackers could look in the mirror today. Of course I'd like more. We would also like to do more, but we need to take into account the real situation and opportunities. The government needed to find more tens and tens of millions of euros. It was dealt with without new tax increases, new excise increases. In addition, government debt will decrease. This budget provides for an increase in the revenue of local governments, which allows the necessary local things to be done even in the farther corners of Estonia. We cannot have the first and the second Estonia, we must have one and a common Estonia, and I will not tire of repeating it, where it is good to live in every municipality, both in the capital and in the hinterland. In a distant village too, spring or autumn mud must move. With the same budget, the gravel roads of many Estonian rural areas will be repaired or asphalted. Preparations for the construction of new four-line road sections in the direction of Narva, Tartu and Pärnu are also underway. If we want to invest in rural areas, new jobs, then quality roads must also be brought there. Our people must not cage on gravel roads in mud and mud in spring. Estonia needs to be protected, which is why at least 2% of GDP will continue to be covered and the salaries of internal security workers, including rescuers and police officers, will be increased, and working conditions will also be improved, which we will be pleased with. These repairs will certainly go beyond the capital. The budget also values teachers and faculty members, with additional funding for research. Of course, the Estonian Conservative People's Party is pleased that additional resources are also available for learning Estonian language. It is also important to deal with the future success of Estonian language and culture, which concerns the digital world. The processes involved need to be closely monitored so that we do not fall under English. This budget also provides new opportunities for this. By 2020, €5 million will be available for transitional payments to farmers. Of course, this could be more, but given the situation, the Estonian Conservative People's Party is pleased that money was still found for grants, because Estonia's rural, agricultural and domestic food are important to us. It's certainly not as bad as the opposition is trying to show. A lot of important things are being done with this budget. This budget is the face of Estonia as a whole, not just of major cities or capital cities. On behalf of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, I thank the government for its work on the budget, and I wish success and strength with the revision of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U163	Thank you. For the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U164	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! The state budget for 2020 transferred by the government to the Riigikogu today is similar to the two previous ones, i.e. we focus our attention primarily on the bottlenecks in Estonia's life. There are many goals, but the Estonian person stands out very clearly from among them. Significant contributions will be made to public staff, teachers, kindergarten teachers, rescue workers, police officers and other payroll funds. Grants will be increased, including for children with disabilities, and new investments will be made to increase the well-being of people living in Estonia. I would like to emphasise once again the Prime Minister's point here. Over the last few years, the governments led by Jüri Ratas have focused on long-term and need-to-know pains. Let me give you a few examples. Income tax reform has raised the incomes of the lower and middle earners, significantly contributed to health care, and wage increases have been achieved by those who have long been waiting for this: rescuers, policemen, teachers, cultural workers and many others. The steps taken have been constructive. The budget for next year will also continue to address these priorities and problems, based on the priorities agreed by the government coalition: family friendliness, Estonian community, knowledge-based economy, effective governance, free and protected state. Everyone in this hall probably agrees that the livelihood of the elderly living in Estonia must be improved. I am very pleased that today's government will bring the 12th largest pension increase to the elderly. In April next year, the average old-age pension will rise to 45 euros. This gives the elderly an additional EUR 540 per year, i.e. basically the 13th pension. We have always stressed that a coherent and strong society is important for Estonia, where everyone has the best standard of living possible. That is why it is good to note that the old-age pension will therefore rise to EUR 132 between 2017 and 2020. I'm just saying that we're talking about a seven-euro rise, I think it's just cynical. Like this year's budget, we are making a strong contribution to healthcare with the new budget. The Health Insurance Fund's budget will grow by nearly EUR 140 million, and these additional resources will help to reduce the number of treatments and improve access to healthcare. It also welcomes the fact that the disability allowance paid by the State partially doubles. This allowance will rise to EUR 138, the allowance for a child with severe disabilities to EUR 161 and the allowance will be paid to the guardian of a child with a deep disability to EUR 241. More money has been placed in the fields of the Ministry of Education and Research in recent years than ever before. These steps have also been essential, as education is the opportunity and strength of the Estonian state and contributing to it will bring back several times in the future. Like this year, the income of teachers and teachers is increasing and the number of teachers who feel that their profession is valued in society has doubled. The funding of science, which has caused much controversy, is not limited to the current level, but we are facing growth. Estonia's economic environment remains strong and the state's debt burden is decreasing. Next year's budget revenue investment will exceed EUR 11 billion. The government has submitted a budget to the Riigikogu that is nominally balanced and moves towards structural balance, reaching it in 2021. Estonia's tax burden remains stable and the debt burden falls to 8%. The income base of local governments continues to grow. Thanks to administrative reform, the capacity of our municipalities has increased, allowing us to provide better and better quality services. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U165	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U166	We are moving in the direction that, instead of tagged money, municipalities can decide for themselves which areas to target funds in. It is on the spot that the best know which services are most needed, at which level. The incomes of local governments will be over 2.3 billion euros next year, as well as more than 440 million euros to support local authorities in solving local issues, such as the maintenance of local roads. It is also sympathetic that the budget is earmarked to cover gravel roads, with an additional EUR 10 million and a total of 194 kilometres of roads. There are more areas to which the state budget pays attention and this list could continue for a long time. However, it is important that, in a difficult budgetary situation, the government was able to find ways of resolving and correcting important issues. The state budget must take account of the interests of our country and of the people living here, and that is what the 2020 budget will undoubtedly do. Anyway, thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U167	Thank you. Kaja Kallas, Reform Party faction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U168	Thank you. I'm asking for three more minutes right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U169	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U170	Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! To begin with, I would like to welcome the fact that the state budget provides for wage increases for those areas of life that are certainly worth it. We are all pleased that rescuers, teachers, policemen and cultural workers will receive a two-percent raise next year. It is true that this wage increase is of the same magnitude as the overall price increase and is far from what was previously promised. When we talk about the budget for next year, we will not overcome or reverse the injustice of pensioners. It is extraordinary that the government will tax the average pension with income tax. Only EUR 1.4 will remain after the tax has been paid after the extraordinary increase of the 100 euros promised by the Centre Party. This is a massive act of cheating on pensioners and voters. I have noticed that the Prime Minister is trying to make it look like the pension increase resulting from the indexation of pensions is the winning job of this government. However, that is not the case. Pension increases are due to good times in the economy and strong wage growth. Indexed pension increases occur with every state budget, and this is a statutory obligation, not the generosity of politicians. This government has only been able to raise pensions by EUR 7 exceptionally, but it will be recovered with income tax of 5.60. Good government parties! Please listen to the amounts we're talking about! 1 euro 40 cents. The EUR 100 promised has become two loafs of bread per month. On top of that, the Centre Party promised in its election programme that the average pension would be exempt from income tax. It's the other way around in the budget. But this is not the first time the Prime Minister has broken his word. However, what we do not see in next year's budget is investment. The government has postponed investment of EUR 100 million. Those that would take up money from the sale of the European Union and the CO2 quota have been excluded. The budget also reduces defence investments and Rail Baltic development funding. By saving on investment, we will reduce our future growth potential and tax revenues. We cannot talk about next year's budget without answering the question of how we got here. After all, we have lived the last six months knowing that the state budget must be cut despite the good times in the economy. I say to the previous speakers that this talk of cutbacks was spoken by government ministers in May when there was a debate on the country's budget strategy. For example, on May 29, Mailis Reps said to be cut, and you can find it by Googlering yourself. The current deficit has already come from the previous government of Jüri Ratas, which implemented a major cost race and a failed tax policy before the elections. Our country's current poor financial position is directly linked to previous decisions. Here are examples of bad decisions that should have been left unfinished: a failed excise policy that created mass border trade and five budgets of over 350 million; the introduction of progressive income tax, which will tax the average pension this year and, at the top of all, the guarantee of money from the state budget; free public transport has been a disappointment for those who need working connections for daily mobility, but this will lead to 40 to 50 million per year from the budget. The previous governments also allowed operating costs to grow unstoppably, as the election year was ahead. So tens and hundreds of millions of dollars of money throwing and making a stupid tax policy, we came to today's situation. The same pattern will continue with next year's budget. Instead of investing and looking to the future, we are patching up the spending and waste of previous years, we are doing so at the expense of future investment and development. The budget has postponed financial commitments that are not accessible, and investments that have long been planned have been abandoned. The budget holes are patched up with bad lies and accounting tricks. Income tax revenue is projected to increase by 25% more than this year in the new budget. The question arises as to whether the government really believes in such a large income tax leap and on what basis, or whether it is a wishful thinking to make the budget fit on paper. The trickery described above takes place in a situation where the country's tax revenue grows for several years. Can we see that the government is able to develop the country at the same pace as our economy is growing? The answer is no. We hear how we cannot invest and how we need to collect more taxes. What else do I see when I look at the budget? The budget makers do not have a long plan, direction and understanding of what will happen to Estonia in the future. We all know that the European Union's investment money allocated to Estonia will decrease in the future. It would make sense that we start thinking about it early. But we do not see that concern in the budget. What we see is that European Union money is being tried to hide the country's fixed costs. It's irresponsible, and it'll bite us back painfully in the future. Our outlook for the future is poor even if we do not invest in science and education. The budget for next year shows a slight increase in research funding, but this is not the 1% of gross domestic product that the Centre Party and the Fatherland promised to sign before the President and the heads of education. The handwriting of this government is a wordbreaker. That's how we get to the taxogmads that the Prime Minister has loved. I believe that the sneaking pretext of talking about taxogms is the fact that our public finances have been ruined. Hundreds of millions of taxpayers' money have been spent in recent years without any progress. Have you completed some major infrastructure for the outskirts of roads, bridges, faster railroads? No, it's not. Will they be completed in the coming years? I'm not ready. There's a lot of talk and noise, but there's no content. Now the Prime Minister wants to prepare society for what is the only way out for him: to push his hand deeper into the pocket of the taxpayer. Raising taxes in order not to go bankrupt is the real point of taxogmas. Good members of the government! My suggestion is: please face the facts and admit that Estonia's financial situation is poor! You're cutting in the middle of economic growth. You're fixing the costs, not investing. You are talking about new taxes, not economic recovery. This budget has no direction, no goals, no money. You promised big changes when you came to power, they're not in the budget. That's the word-breakers' budget. The opposition will certainly make its proposals on how to improve the situation, and I would like the representatives of the coalition to listen to the Prime Minister and not get stuck in dogma and support those proposals that are sensible and necessary for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U171	Thank you. Sven Sester, Fatherland. Add a minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U172	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a good budget. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] This budget has been made by three parties and, of course, when we look at what is the objective of a single budget and what is the goal of a single coalition, we must first start with what this coalition wants to implement in Estonia. I think there are five clear priorities in this coalition. And when we know what our goal is, we also understand how to approach it. A knowledge-based economy, effective governance, a protected state, a family-friendly Estonia and a coherent society just five goals that we are working for today. In four years. If we look at what is being done in the next year, 2020 to meet these five objectives, we will see that there are additional financial resources for each of these objectives. As I mentioned, the coalition agreement is a longer-term view, which they want to do in four years. The budget gives you the opportunities you can do in one year. In this sense, it is certainly good to see this debate that who promised a pension increase of EUR 100 and, well, did not do so much right now. Don't forget, it's only the first year. Let's see what the next few years will bring. If you look at the Fatherland side, I can say that our ambition and wishes, which are also in this coalition agreement, are much greater than this one-year budget. I will give you an example: we foresee income tax exemption for families with children. We've been seeing this since the first and second children. At this point in time, the financial opportunities are not such as to begin immediately with the first and second child, so let's start with the third one. Let's do it. Let's go step by step. It was good for me to watch and listen to the story of the previous speaker, the President of the Reform Party, who concluded with the words 'I wrote 'that you are talking about new taxes', the budget is poor. Friends! The budget for next year is historically a budget with no new tax increases. No existing tax will be increased. There won't be any new taxes. Tax truce, tax truce and tax truce. This is the budget level for next year. That's right. If we look at the last few years and this has not been the case in the last two years, but I think that for the last ten years, I have been in politics for a long time, practically every year something has risen. There's some taxes. There's a new tax coming, there's a rise in existing taxes, isn't there? No, next year, this coalition has not adopted any new possible tax increases or any existing tax increases. When we talk about the tax burden, the tax burden is decreasing. In the next few years, we will reach below 33% of the tax burden. I see that the Prime Minister wishes to launch a debate in the future and also says that this debate could be in three and a half years' time. You got it. In this coalition too, there are very likely to be different perceptions. On the Fatherland side, I can say: we are making an effort to ensure that the tax burden continues to decrease. If we have better taxes, we will, if possible, focus on labour taxes. Debt burden. This debt burden, which Estonia has the lowest in Europe, will decrease in the coming years. Not only as a percentage of GDP, but also in absolute numbers. 2.4 million this year, 2.3 million next year. Not only as a percentage of GDP. To talk about the fact that there is a budget in Estonia, a budget policy going somewhere else, a scratch, no wrong place. These are real numbers. Those are real numbers! Looking at the Fatherland, I've already mentioned family friendliness. For our party, it has been important for family, education, Estonian language, to move more than a line, not a fish. If you look at the agreements in the near future, I will indeed mention that an agreement has been reached that is not visible in the 2020 budget, but that is already in the 2021 budget. However, as early as 2020, the third child's income tax exemption will become effective. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U173	Three minutes extra.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U174	Thank you. Estonian language and Estonian mind have been very important to our party throughout the ages. We've been paying attention to this in different coalitions, including here. Next year, we will see the allocation of additional funds, in addition to what has previously been agreed in the budget, to the Estonian language houses, to the global administration. We see the allocation of funds for immersion, for Estonian language teachers in kindergartens, for Estonian language teachers at the first stage of primary school. These are additional financial resources. The instruments I was talking about earlier were not available or were much smaller. Defence costs. From the perspective of our party, we have always said that Estonia must be free and protected. We have kept our defence spending at 2% in different coalitions, and it can be said that this coalition will continue to do so. And not only will it continue, but ambition will be much higher. In addition to 2%, the cost of allies is not only 2%, but also agreements relating to possible defence investments. The percentage is going to be over two. The countries that are NATO countries and have promised to reach 2% are not very many today. Estonia is one of them. We will continue this ambition, and indeed, looking at where this money is going, starting with munitions, handguns, and so on, we can say that next year's defence policy budget is the largest ever in absolute numbers, 615 million. This could be continued. If we look at the Health Insurance Fund's funding of 140 million additional euros, we are talking about the disbursements of all pension levels from the state budget of the Republic of Estonia, we will reach almost two billion euros to 1.98 billion euros. There are many different directions in which taxpayers' money will be channelled into the state budget next year. I would put it together in such a way that, of course, the wishes are always greater, but I also congratulate our partners for their willingness to move Estonia forward, to agree on the actions that have been in the coalition agreement, there is now and I see no reason why not in the future. So I think that one of the biggest effects of this state budget, not next year, will be the reform of the second pension pillar in the coming years. Next year, we will feel it when we process it this year. So once again: money is directed correctly, money is directed according to political priorities. The Fatherland sees that many of the directions that we have wanted to see in this budget have also been reflected correctly and in concrete terms. Thank you. I think it's a long plan. If it was said that there is no long plan, then the long plan is clearly visible from this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U175	Thank you. The political groups have spoken, the Prime Minister has spoken, so the item on the political statement by the Prime Minister and subsequent negotiations has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U176	We will go to the next item, which is the draft Act on ratification of the Tourism Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Japan, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Mr Raivo Aegil, Minister of Justice, is the floor for the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U177	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law ratifying the right of employment agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Japan was discussed in the Government of the Republic on 15 August including. Japan proposed the development of this agreement in early 2017. Under the agreement, Estonia and Japan may issue multiple-entry visas with a right to work for up to 12 months for each other's citizens aged 18 to 30 years, but the main purpose of a person's stay must not be to work. Japanese citizens can usually travel to Estonia without a visa for short periods, so a tourist visa with a right to work should be of particular interest to young people aged 18 to 30 in Estonia. The conclusion of an agreement will strengthen relations between Estonia and Japan, facilitate tourism for young people, allow longer stays and, in addition to holidays, work for short periods. Estonia has concluded a similar agreement with Australia, New Zealand and Canada. Japan has entered into tourism-friendly agreements with 22 countries, including 13 Member States of the European Union. The agreement needs to be ratified in the Riigikogu, as the visa issued under the agreement gives the right to work without prior registration in the Police and Border Guard Board. According to § 104 (1) of the Aliens Act, an alien temporarily staying in Estonia may work in Estonia without registration if his or her right to work in Estonia arises directly from the law or from the foreign treaty ratified by the Riigikogu. The agreement will be concluded by exchange of notes and the notes will be exchanged after the agreement has been ratified in the Riigikogu. The agreement will enter into force on the 120th day from the date of the note by which the Republic of Estonia informs Japanese citizens of the completion of the internal procedures necessary for issuing tourist visas with a right to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U178	Thank you, Minister. Members of the Riigikogu can ask questions to the Minister. Kai Rimmel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U179	Thank you. Good manager! Good waitress! Reading now that these notes have been brought here from both sides of the Republic of Estonia and Japan, point 6 says that the person entering a tourist visa is entitled to work, must comply with legislation and must not do work that does not meet the purpose of this agreement. My question is, what kind of work are these that do not meet the objective of this agreement, and what can be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U180	I think you should be answered in writing. I really cannot mention this list of works that do not meet the objective of this agreement, but, as I mentioned, the main clause is that it is short-term work and that it must not be the main objective of the stay. If he travels here for other purposes, traveling, visiting his friends, whatever, then he can also work for a short period of time. But as to what this list is specifically, what kind of work is allowed and what is not, I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to give you an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U181	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Minister. It is now the turn of the co-rapporteur, and Mikhail Lotman, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U182	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the preparation of this draft for the first reading at its meeting on 16 September. During the discussion of the draft proposal, Minister for Foreign Affairs Urmas Reinsalu presented the content and purpose of the draft. The Committee on Foreign Affairs took the following decisions: it is proposed to put a draft 46 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for first reading on Wednesday 25 September and to appoint Mikhail Lotman, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs as rapporteur. These decisions were taken by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U183	Thank you. Anyone want to ask the co-rapporteur a question? I don't see a wish, then thank you! If there are no other opinions or speeches on this subject, according to § 98 (6) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the first reading of Bill 46 has been completed. The deadline for amendments shall be 5.15 p.m. on 9 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U184	And now for the next item. This is the first reading of the draft Act on the Election of the European Parliament, on the Election of the Local Government Council, on the Election of the Riigikogu, on the Amendment to the Law on Referendum and on the Penal Code (abolition of restrictions on electoral agitation on election day and ban on outdoor advertising). Minister of Justice Raivo Aegis, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft of the European Parliament Election Act, the Local Government Council Election Act, the Riigikogu Election Act, the Referendum Act and the Penal Code Amendment Act prepared by the Ministry of Justice. The draft repeals the general prohibition of electoral agitation contained in the ready-made laws on election day, the prohibition of electoral agitation in the premises through which the electorate enters the voting room, and the prohibition of political outdoor advertising. The content of the amendment relating to election agitation is firstly, to abolish the ban on agitation on election day, and secondly, to abolish the ban on agitation in the premises through which the voters enter the voting room. The election ban on election day provides for a valid Riigikogu Election Act, adopted in 2002. According to the previous Riigikogu Election Act, adopted in 1994, electoral agitation was also prohibited on election day. And analogous regulation is also in other electoral laws. The voters should be on the same terms as possible during the vote. The rules of the electoral campaign should therefore be as uniform as possible during the election period. The effect of the ban on campaigning on election day is undermined by the fact that more and more people vote during pre-votes when active agitation is allowed. For example, in the 2019 Riigikogu elections, the proportion of those who voted in advance was 39.3%. The question of the feasibility of a restriction on electoral behaviour has previously been raised by both the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice. In a situation where electoral advertising is largely online, it is difficult and impractical to ensure that advertising is not published on election day. In addition to the voting space, the regulations which prohibit agitisation in the premises through which the voter enters the voting room have been in force since the 1990s since the precinct was located mainly in school buildings, parish houses, etc., where the voter moved only through one or two rooms in the voting room. However, in order to increase turnout, the electoral arrangements have moved to where there are people, which means that more and more voting spaces are now being set up in large, multi-access and multi-functional buildings such as shopping centres. It has therefore become more unclear to what extent electoral agitation should be prohibited in a shopping centre, for example. However, uncertainty makes the work of both the electoral organisers and the police more difficult. The prohibition of agitisation in the voting room remains valid. This prohibition relates to the principle of guaranteeing free elections, which follows from § 60 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Freedom of election means both the right to decide whether or not to take part in elections, but also the freedom to vote also means that the electoral body must have the opportunity to express its will unhindered. The electoral body must be able to shape its will freely and in an informed manner and the organisation of the elections must ensure that this principle is respected. This is complemented by other selection principles, such as the secrecy of pre-voting: the voting booth must ensure the secrecy of voting. The concept of voting space and voting booth is defined by general characteristics in electoral laws, such as § 34 and 35 of the Riigikogu Election Act. The location of the voting spaces shall be determined by the municipality or city government and the rules shall be maintained there by the members of the district committee. In addition, the law waives the definition of the time for active electoral intervention, as it will not have any legal meaning in the future. Secondly, the amendment relating to the lifting of the ban on political outdoor advertising. The content of the amendment is to repeal the ban on political outdoor advertising provided for in the European Parliament Election Act, the Local Government Council Election Act and the Riigikogu Election Act. The practice has shown that the ban introduced in 2005 has not met the objectives originally set. At the time of the ban on outdoor advertising, several electoral cycles have taken place and there is no evidence to suggest that the ban on outdoor advertising has led to an improvement in the quality of political arguments. Similarly, the share of money in shaping election results has not decreased. The costs of electoral campaigns have not decreased since the introduction of the ban. The only real effect is the release of public space from political advertising, as large-scale posters in public space are simply no longer present in this period. However, advertising has moved more to other channels, especially the internet and social media. Political outdoor advertising is also displayed in the pre-prohibited period. The voters should be on the same terms as possible during the voting period, so the rules of the electoral campaign should be as identical as possible during the voting period. The bans have lost their timeliness as a result of changes in electoral behaviour, as a large majority of voters make their decision at a time when both agitation and political outdoor advertising are allowed. Once again, I would point out that in the 2019 Riigikogu elections, the proportion of those who voted in advance was 39.3%.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U186	Thank you, Minister. You can ask questions. Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U187	Yes, thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The political party monitoring committee has pointed to the problem of the fact that the party law provides for a ban on the use of public funds in the electoral campaign. However, there is no definition or period of campaign in the party law, which is why the case law has been based on the period of active electoral intervention laid down in the electoral laws, which is currently abolished by this bill. My question to you is that for what reason the law deprives law enforcement authorities of the right to apply the law and the possibility of applying it and how the court, in your view, should understand the law in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U188	Yes, thank you for your question. I did not understand very well that what right is being taken from the police and the supervisory authorities exactly, perhaps you will specify your question. [[Lauri West Forest is talking about the hall.]] Yeah. I get it now. Yes, thank you! Instead, it was a question of using public funds. No one is going to take this right away from the police or the supervisory authorities, and the purpose of this law is absolutely not to hinder the activities of the police or the supervisory authorities in any way if they have to prevent or stop using public funds for election advertising, either for a party or for an individual candidate. But you can't do that either during the non-allocation period, you can't do that at all. So linking it to an active period of agitation and banning the use of public funds to carry out political agitation is not imputable in this sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U189	Thank you. Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U190	Austet President! Good waitress! There are undoubtedly very sensible suggestions in this draft, but I recall that the ban on outdoor advertising was introduced after your partymates Juhan Parts, Urmas Reinsalu and others had taped their huge pictures of Tallinn during the campaign of the Riigikogu of their time. I think it made sense to limit these costs at the time. But if you now want to allow outdoor advertising again until election day, I would like to ask why you have not come before the Riigikogu with a proposal to set a ceiling on the costs of the election campaign.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U191	Thank you for your question. This issue has not been the subject of a debate in the course of the proceedings on this law. As we know, it has been the subject of a political debate at political level, but so far it has not been considered appropriate to set a maximum cost and, consequently, we have not addressed this issue in the drafting of the draft law. Well, it's not like he's making the supervisory bodies any more supervision. On the one hand, today we want to relieve the police of such a rather questionable burden, in which they have to deal with the mutual complaints made by political opponents against their political competitor or opponent. And now, with the other hand, to give the supervisory bodies the additional task of counting up specific amounts to determine whether the threshold has been reached or whether it has been exceeded, I think that today's political debate has not yet reached that level that we should begin to regulate this subject by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U192	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U193	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the fact that there is a ban on electoral agitation in the voting room. The Riigikogu Election Act defines the concept of voting space and what can be done in that room. But now coming to the same example of the shopping mall, is the concept of voting space extended to the entire area where the mall is located if there is a voting space on the floor of the shopping mall?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U194	This is, in fact, the kind of question that needs to be resolved in the future in the course of traineeships and work organisation. Today, the Riigikogu Election Manual is available for elections, which includes such a paragraph: 'In preparation of voting space, it must be taken into account that there is sufficient room for voting and for observers. In the case of an open space (room, lobby, corridor, etc.), it is necessary to ensure that the voting part is separated from the other space and that no outsiders pass through it. " It is a guide to the electoral service or a handbook made available to the electoral councils. So I guess that's the issue of solving it in the course of the work. If the voting room is located in the atrium of a large shopping centre, it must be separated from the other room and turned into a private place where, when the voter enters, he will no longer be disturbed by his speeches, posters or other objects developed for the election campaign, and where the voter will be able to make his decision peacefully, which he will then finalise in the booth.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U195	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U196	Yes, thank you! Minister, thank you very much. The idea of a ban on an outdoor campaign during an electoral campaign was to reduce the impact of money on electoral campaigns. Did I understand correctly from your previous answer that this principle is not supported by the government coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U197	Yes, that was the purpose of the day. As I have also mentioned here, on the one hand, the cost savings were the cause and, on the other hand, the electoral campaign would become more meaningful and the debate would become more meaningful. However, the analyses have shown that neither objective has actually been achieved through these prohibitions. The costs of election adverts are rather on the rise and it has also not been observed that the electoral debate has become more meaningful. So, as has been pointed out here, the only effect was that, for a certain period, public space was released from large public posters, which in fact meant that these posters were hung or put on billboards or wherever they just used to be. This period has moved forward. And the other significant impact it has had on the police has significantly increased the workload.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U198	Thank you. Kalle Grünthal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Would it not make sense, however, to introduce some specific provisions on the voting space so that there are no such legal disputes that the voting space can be interpreted in this way or not? Just quoting the book you mentioned may not be enough alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U200	Thank you for your question. Yeah, all things can be discussed. Between two readings, the Commission or the committees that are going to deal with this law will certainly be able to incorporate the amendments and amendments of the members of the Riigikogu and the committee itself into the draft, if it is indeed deemed necessary. But at the same time, every time we try very hard to get into the details of the law, life has, unfortunately, often shown that detail is sometimes overstretched, and at some point these details start interfering with normal everyday life, and we have to go back to the law, change the law. Indeed, perhaps it would be more appropriate to improve the situation, even with the guidance provided by the same electoral service, through trainings or agreements, so that not every little detail that can be laid down can be regulated, agreed otherwise, would be put into law. But once again, between the first reading and the second reading, Parliament has unlimited power to introduce additions and amendments to the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U201	Thank you, dear waitress. One way to limit the cost of an election campaign, namely outdoor advertising, is to avoid, for example, huge advertising posters in Finland and to provide certain places on the city where all parties can equally place their election ads. Haven't you thought about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U202	Jaak Juske, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U203	Yeah, all kinds of restrictions can be done again, but then we have to set very clear dimensions for the size of the poster, so it's either A4 or A3 or whatever, and then the supervisory authorities must also have revised instruments to measure the posters. Otherwise, the result can be challenged in court because if the revised instrument has not been used, the measurement may not be competent. So once again, the best thing to do is to do it in a healthy way and on the basis of agreements. But, of course, it is again possible to introduce such restrictive provisions. However, if, on the one hand, we want to make the electoral process more understandable and not so much, say, limited to the individual details, starting to bring in the location of the poster, the size of the poster, the cost of the poster, or what we talked about here in the voting room, we must also be very clear about the principle of rationality. Here's my point.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U204	Thank you. Urve Tiidus has a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U205	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Your previous answer inspired me to ask you that I realized that quite precisely the size of the poster and not all of it would be very regulated, or would someone do it? was there a theoretical possibility that someone would set up a space there, for example, in the shape of their cardboard?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U206	No, good Urve, the voting room... [[Urve Tiidus will specify.]] In front of the room? (Urve Tiidus responds.) Yeah, you can put it in the front room. But now every campaigner, every politician, should really think about whether it makes sense at the last minute to piss off the electorate or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U207	Thank you. Mikhail Korb's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U208	Dear Minister, I'd like to ask if you could enlighten the police during this restriction. Do you have any information on how many calls or complaints this campaign will bring to the police and how much resources will the police be forced to implement during this restriction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U209	Yes, if I remember correctly, during the last Riigikogu elections, they had started about 45 proceedings. In such cases, the procedures are clearly carried out with the utmost depth so that there is no doubt about impartiality and the conduct of a'very intensified' procedure. So it is a significant resource that the police must use to carry out these procedures. At the same time, we know there's a shortage of money in the police department. Hires need to be raised to motivate and recruit more people to be enough to ensure our safety, to fight crime on the street. I think we have taken the right course if we save the police resources for what we really need them for.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U210	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. Now I ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as co-rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U211	Good Riigikogu! The draft law 51 was on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Tuesday 17 September 2019. The debate was thorough. The Minister of Justice has told us that the regulations of his time have not served his purpose. The aim of the bans on political outdoor advertising was to reduce expenditure, to make policy-making more meaningful and to make outdoor advertising smaller, all of this has not happened. In the meantime, the Chancellor of Justice's institution has also tested whether these prohibitions are compatible with the Constitution and has proposed to waive these prohibitions. The question was that the definition of voting space does exist in other electoral laws, but it is rather vague given that elections may also take place in schools or shopping centres, for example. One of the suggestions was to include this definition in, for example, the explanatory memorandum. If the legislator so wishes, it can be done between two readings. The question also arose as to whether the objectives set out in this draft law could be achieved by, for example, setting a limit on the costs of election advertising. The answer was that this topic falls outside the context of this law. And that was the main theme. The Commission decided that the deadline for amendments was 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 10 October. I am the rapporteur and the Commission has made a consensual proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U212	Thank you. Mr. waitress, a little question. My text says that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft is set at 5.15 p.m. on 9 October, and you said 10 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U213	That's a very interesting question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U214	The way you say it now, it's the way it's gonna be. If it's the 10th, it's the 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U215	I'll think about it for a second. [[???Juhataja: 'Kuidas?'???]] I'll do a little math. Maybe that's when the committee meeting was held, yeah... In short, it's ten working days, October 9. The President of the sitting is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U216	Nine. I see.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U217	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U218	Crystal clear!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U219	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U220	Well, thank you! Since no proposal for this draft at first reading... But Lauri Läänemets wants to give a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U221	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, In 2015, Riigikogu X introduced a ban on outdoor advertising for the period of active agitation. The aim of the ban was to reduce the costs of electoral campaigns and the share of money in achieving political power. At the time, it was hoped that when the bill was adopted, the house-sized election posters, the election posters that were known for the past election campaigns would disappear, that election posters would cease to be glued to the building walls and planks, that the use of traditional marketing techniques in the electoral campaign would decrease, and that there would be more substantive political arguments. True, posters sticking has indeed decreased at that time, but the part of argumented debate has unfortunately not increased much. Instead, the role of social media has increased in the campaign, and pre-elections also reduce the desired effect of the provision. Therefore, the debate on amending and supplementing electoral laws is fully in the right place. However, it cannot be accepted that we will lose the ban on outdoor advertising during the active election campaign and offer nothing in place. This is not the solution, this is one step backwards. If the legal solution does not work, then another solution should be proposed. There is nothing currently being offered to replace, and there is only one message: reducing the impact of money on election results is not the will of the drafters or the draft supporters. Members of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, who attended the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Monday, stated that if the Commission can draw any conclusions on the funding of political parties on the basis of its eight-year work, it would be that the political parties' financial affairs would deteriorate. Cost increases faster than revenues. In such a situation, the solution is not to increase revenue to put more taxpayers' money in the chimneys, but to reduce costs, i.e. to reduce the impact of money on the current electoral laws. Allowing unbridled publicity again in the pre-election period is certainly not what the Estonian people expect of us today. We have already seen that the Ansips and Reinsalus covering the floors do not provide an answer to any of the painful questions facing society. However, taxpayers often have to pay the cost of such a madness. Setting a cap on election costs, which has been supported for many years by the Social Democrats, would be the best way to reduce the impact of the money. It would also be possible to limit the volume of advertising on TV, print and outdoors during the elections, making it equally accessible to all. Based on the experience of other countries, limiting the volume of advertising would also help to increase the importance of electoral debates. The Social Democrats do not agree with lifting the restrictions on electoral laws as long as the Riigikogu does not impose new standards in return to help limit the unreasonable spending of money in election campaigns. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I propose to reject bill 51 at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U222	Thank you. So, there seems to be no further speeches on behalf of the political groups, so I am voting on the Socialist proposal to reject the draft 51 at first reading. Honourable, respected and otherwise good Riigikogu! I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to reject the draft Act on the Election of the European Parliament, on the Election of the Local Government Council, on the Election of the Riigikogu, on the Amendment of the Act on the Referendum and on the Penal Code 51 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 64 members of the Riigikogu voted against the proposal, 8 were in favour and 20 did not participate. The proposal was not supported. The first reading of this draft has therefore been completed. As has been said, amendments are expected by 5.15 p.m. on 9 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U223	So, now we have the opportunity to start reading the first 50 readings of the draft Penal Code and the law amending other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic (transposition of the European Union's directive on the protection of the financial interests and the directive on the procedural rights of minors). Rapporteur: Mr Raivo Aeg, Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U224	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have received a draft bill prepared by the Ministry of Justice 50, a draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws aimed at transposing the directive on the protection of the European Union's financial interests and the directive on the procedural rights of minors. This bill transposes two directives into Estonian law, the resulting requirements already being largely met by Estonian law in itself. Since the same laws are being amended and there are not many amendments, the two directives are incorporated into a single draft. In addition to the transposition of the directives, there are some amendments to the draft, which, if adopted, will improve the readiness to resist current, societally responsive vices such as biasing the use of money laundering and doping. There are also amendments to the draft which are necessary to establish clarity in the classification of sexual offences as amended by the law which entered into force in the summer and to carry out the related criminal proceedings. The draft amends the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Penal Code, the Prison Guard Act, and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. The amendments to the draft are intended to enter into force in the general procedure. As the draft amends constitutional laws, its adoption requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. The first directive to secure the requirements of the draft directive is the directive on the protection of the financial interests of the European Union. The deadline for its transposition was 6 July. The financial interests of the European Union are those of assets, revenue and expenditure directly or indirectly linked to the budget of the European Union, such as grants financed by European Union funds and paid out through the EAS. Procurement financed by European Union funds and the tax revenue of the European Union are also related to these interests. The Penal Code introduces the definition of the financial interests of the European Union, according to which assets, revenues and expenditure covered by the budget of the European Union and budgets managed by the structural units of the European Union are treated as the financial interests of the Union. The directive will replace the existing legal basis for the protection of the European Union's financial interests, i.e. indirectly the protection of all our interests against fraud, which is the convention on crimes against the European Union's financial interests. Estonia has been a Contracting Party to the Convention for 15 years and has complied with its obligations. The directive will make these obligations a little broader and more precise, and consequently the law needs to be amended. The Financial Interests Directive defines the original substantive competence of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which is being completed and should be operational in the coming years. When the European Public Prosecutor's Office is set up, the most serious crimes affecting the financial interests of the European Union will be dealt with by the European Public Prosecutor's Prosecutors. The Directive obliges Member States to impose penalties on natural and legal persons who are responsible for fraud affecting the financial interests of the European Union, as well as on other related crimes, such as money laundering of bribery and proceeds from fraud related to the financial interests of the European Union. The draft extends the personal validity of the Estonian Penal Code: it provides that it also applies in the event of a criminal offence affecting the financial interests of the European Union committed outside the territory of Estonia, if committed by an Estonian citizen, an Estonian official or a legal person registered in Estonia. It is specified that foreign officials are also considered to be officials for crimes affecting the financial interests of the European Union. In addition, the Penal Code will be complemented by a new criminal offence, a procurement mishap affecting the financial interests of the European Union, and will be expanded to include smuggling-related crimes, where a large quantity of goods is currently required. In particular, an act with a customs debt of at least EUR 10000 will now also be punishable. The maximum amount of sanctions for fraud and smuggling shall be increased by raising the maximum term of imprisonment from three to four years. The second directive to be transposed is the Directive on the procedural rights of minors. Estonian law is already in most respects in line with the requirements of this directive, but clarification is necessary. The Directive had to be transposed into national law by 11 June. The Directive on the procedural rights of minors concerns procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. In order to transpose the Directive, the rights of suspects or accused persons who are minors are more clearly enshrined in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, although these amendments are minimally relevant to misdemeanour proceedings. Similar rights must also be guaranteed for a minor subject for whom a European arrest warrant has been issued. The main changes include the right of the minor to an individual assessment, the right to a medical examination for deprivation of liberty and the participation of his or her legal representative or any other person trusted by him or her in criminal proceedings. A pre-trial report on the suspect of the minor must be drawn up for individual assessment in the future at the latest before the prosecution is brought. Processors have experience of individual assessment of minors, as such assessment is already required for the minor victim. The results of the individual assessment must also be taken into account in procedural decisions in the case of a suspected minor. With regard to these amendments, the Penal Code and the Penal Code will be clarified. A minor's suspect must be informed of his or her rights on the basis of child-friendly and age-appropriate language. The minor shall continue to be entitled to inform his or her legal representative or other reliable person, as well as the rights of suspects and accused persons of the minor to be presented to his or her legal representative or to a reliable person. At the request of a minor suspect or accused person, his or her legal representative may be present at the minor at the hearing and at the time of his or her proceedings, if this is in any way compatible with the interests of the proceedings. Due to the mandate of the Anti-Money Laundering Commission, the maximum term of imprisonment applicable for the Money Laundering Agreement will be amended by replacing the current year with two years and providing for the liability of the legal person. A new procurement mishap will be added to the Traceable Crimes Catalogue as well as a money laundering agreement, illegal handling of the medicinal product and biasing the use of doping.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U225	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Thomas Kivimägi first.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! In the interests of the protocol, I am asking the same question as in the Committee on Legal Affairs, whether linking two directives with such a different content into a single 'draft' is good legislative practice. The financial interests of the European Union, on the one hand, and the procedural rights of minors, on the other, are two completely different things. For example, if I wanted to support one directive, but not the other, I would have a dilemma about how and how I could express my will in the vote. And the second question to ask at the same time: have you also taken an interest in why the transposition of these two directives has not succeeded in time? The deadline for transposition of both directives has expired. Was this task beyond the Ministry's reach, or was there any other reason for it? This question, of course, concerns the time before you, but still.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U227	Thank you for your question. Let's say that the answer to the first question is that procedural economics is used here. As I said, the changes that we need to introduce into these laws are not very substantial, and there is quite a certain overlap here. So in order not to initiate a retrial of the exact same law again... Well, we could have done that if we had dealt with these directives separately. In that case, we would have opened today the Penal Code for the transposition of one directive and the Penal Code for the transposition of another directive. Well, that's one logic, and, as I said, procedural economics is important. And the second question was about deadlines. No, I do not underestimate the capacity of the Ministry of Justice here, but it will take time to prepare for the transposition of directives. And, as we know, the Presidency of the European Union came to us as an unexpected six months earlier. I have also examined from the Ministry why this takeover has been delayed, and these same arguments have been put forward. It's just that these urgent tasks have come up. These tasks have perhaps come apart from the Presidency of the European Union and, consequently, this delay has arisen. But in the future, we will try to be more careful and stick to the deadlines.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U228	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U229	Thank you very much. I would like to ask about the juvenile victims who are in the middle of criminal proceedings. There is a very common kindergarten service in Europe that supports children who have been sexually abused or suspected of being abused. The nursery is an environment that is very child-friendly and where medical examinations are carried out, but there are also rooms and systems for taking statements, which are very child-centred. When I go to Estonian children's homes, I understand that although the conditions are very good, the law does not allow the statements taken there to be used in court. Have you discussed in the Ministry of Justice how to make criminal proceedings more friendly for a minor victim?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U230	Thank you for your question. This prevention of victimisation in criminal proceedings is a very clear priority in the Ministry of Justice today, including, of course, minors. As I mentioned here, the situation of minors is, in fact, better than for adult victims of crime, which are about so-called paying attention to them and preventing them from being sacrificed again, showing them their rights, helping them, psychological counselling and so on. The situation of minors is better, but it can certainly be improved. But I understand that the question now is that if, in the course of proceedings, the statement is not taken by an official of a procedural authority, but by someone else, those statements cannot be used in legal proceedings. That's a very good point. We need to discuss this in this sense, whether this is legally possible for us today. Of course, the aim is the same, isn't it, that the child welfare worker or the nursery is talking first, or how you meant it... [[Details of the floor.]] There are also children's rooms. So, first of all, the staff member is talking, and if it helps to prevent the child from being sacrificed later because he or she needs to be questioned again by a police officer on the same matters, then it would certainly be reasonable to take earlier statements into account. But this now needs to be analysed very clearly in law, whether this is possible. But it turned out really good, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U231	Thank you. Looks like there's no more questions. Thank you, Minister. Marek Jürgenson, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, receives the floor as a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U232	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed at the Legal Committee of the Riigikogu on 16 September. By listening to the Minister and receiving answers to the questions, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today and that the deadline for amendments be 9 October and that Mr Jürgenson be appointed as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U233	Thank you. Does anyone have any questions for the co-rapporteur? Doesn't look like it. There is also no wish to speak on behalf of the political groups, so we will finish the first reading. First reading of bill 50 is complete. And the deadline for submitting proposals for draft 50 is also 9 October at 4 p.m. Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U234	The next item is the first reading and rapporteur of the draft Act 54 on Amendment to the Law on the Protection of the Air of the Air of the Environment, initiated by the Government of the Republic, is the Minister of the Environment Rene Kokk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U235	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft law amending the Act on the Protection of Climate Air, initiated by the Government of the Republic, which transposes into Estonian law amendments to the European Union Directive and to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning innovations in the European Union's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system for the period 2021 to 2030. The draft will update the rules of the trading system for the fourth trading period, including specifying definitions and updating legal references. The list of objectives for which the State should invest at least 50% of the proceeds from auctioning the trading system will be extended. For example, from 2021 onwards, activities related to a fair transition in regions with high CO2 emissions and to addressing social challenges arising from energy consumption can also be considered as such activities. The validity of emission allowances allocated from 2013 will also be changed to an indefinite period. This means that companies have a better chance of managing with units and do not necessarily have to sell all units by the end of the period, which is 31 December 2020. In the context of the reform of the trading system, a reference to the Modernisation Fund will be included in the Act, which will apply from 2021. The Modernisation Fund can channel additional funds into activities and investments related to the transition to a low-carbon economy to support modernisation activities in the energy sector and the development of renewable energy, as well as the development of energy-efficient transport and agriculture, and energy-efficient buildings and waste. The possibility to allocate free emission credits to Estonian electricity generation installations in the trading system will be renewed. To this end, an appropriate legal framework will be created to allow installations to apply for emission allowances for investments related to the modernisation of the energy sector from 2021 onwards. In doing so, these investments must be in line with both the Paris Agreement and the climate policy orientations and objectives of the renewed directive. Activities related to the implementation of the trading system will be transferred from the Ministry of the Environment to the Environmental Board. This will cut red tape, as companies in the trading system will be able to turn to a single body on different issues concerning environmental permits. The deadline for transposition of the Directive and the Regulation is 9 October 2019. In accordance with the transitional provisions of the Directive, some of the amendments will enter into force on 1 January 2021. Since the amendments introduced by the draft law are mainly of a technical nature and relate to the addition of definitions and additions, the implementation of the law to the budget does not generate any additional revenue and costs compared to what has been planned so far. If a country decides to make use of the option to allocate a proportion of emission allowances free of charge or to increase the proportion of the Modernisation Fund, the revenue generated by the auctioning of national emission allowances shall equally decrease, but the amount of funds allocated to the achievement of its climate objectives shall increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U236	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U237	Thank you. My question concerns the same exception to Article 10c, which you mentioned, and which the poorer Member States of the European Union will also be able to use in the new period, so that some of the units that can otherwise be used in the modernisation fund or sold out in the auction can be awarded to the so-called traditional fossil producers of electricity or heat in order to modernise their activities. Now, you rightly said that this draft states, and the European rules also state, that these investments must be in line with the Paris Agreement and the renewed climate policy objectives. As the government will have to decide by Monday whether to apply for an exemption of some 400 million in cash, do you consider that investing in existing ideas, namely the establishment of a refinery, under the Article 10c derogation, will go hand in hand with the Paris climate agreement and with the renewed climate objectives?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U238	Thank you. We have discussed this issue in a very diverse way with both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. You referred to whether it was purely to reduce the production of fossil fuels, oil shale fossil oil, and whether it would fall under this measure. Today, it is more of a view that this will fall under this measure. But the final position will come from the European Commission, which I am sure the Ministry of Economic Affairs will ask. Today, it is considered to be applicable under this measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U239	Thank you. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Minister. The co-rapporteur is Jevgeni Ossinovski, member of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U240	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister gave an overview of this draft. Indeed, on the one hand, this is a technical issue concerning the national provision of European rules on trade in emissions for the new period, for the period 2021 to 2030. But there are also a great many substantive issues behind this technical matter, which concern the environment and the climate, and, of course, the financial aspects, some of which were mentioned by the Minister, some of which were not. In giving an overview of the Commission's debate, I will talk about a few things. In general, the Commission was interested in how much we have to use these units in the new period and in what way this new system applies compared to the current period. Generally speaking, ambition, 'climate ambition' or 'green ambition', is greater in the new period. Emissions trading operates on the basis that, first, a certain number of units are allocated to the countries and then the number of units is gradually reduced each year. Or rather, if these units were reduced by 1.74% per year in the previous period, 2.2% per year in the new period, forcing sectors and businesses involved in emissions trading to operate more energy-efficiently. In total, around 45% of the EU's greenhouse gas emissions are regulated by emissions trading. More specifically, in addition to the free quota to be granted to companies, which the European Union decides to grant on the basis of our requests, Estonia will also be able to receive around 56 million units for auctioning in the new period. 56 million units correspond to the authorisation to issue 56 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, i.e. 1 unit equals 1 tonne. And they have a market and a market price. As of today, the market price is about EUR 25 per unit or per tonne and, as far as these units are currently sold in advance, the unit price is about the same as the future option. On this basis, you can also calculate the amount that Estonia will have to use in this context in the next period. And it can be used in different ways. The Minister mentioned the modernisation fund, which is a new opportunity for poorer Member States of the European Union to modernise their energy systems as a whole, not energy production, but energy systems from start to finish. This was not possible in the previous period. For this, we currently have 8.6 million units planned, which is about 170 million euros in cash. And the auction is 56 million units, of which it is possible that this was the question that I asked and to which the minister referred also in the new period to make one such peculiar exception, the technical language 10c exception. This will allow poorer countries to use credits to give them to their electricity and heat production companies: not to stop producing electricity or heat from fossil fuels, but to keep it going. In the previous period, Estonia used this opportunity to build Auvere Station. Now we are in a position to do this; every few years Parliament must discuss rescue measures so that the cost of the investment at Auvere Station is not written off from the balance sheet of Eesti Energia. Soon, the government will come before us with a draft electricity market law with exactly the same objective, although several Member States have abandoned 10c opt-out, including Latvia, and have raised these same units, for example, to the Modernisation Fund, through which it will be possible to further decarbonise their energy systems. However, the government is planning to apply for this exception next Monday, as I know, and to have the European Commission consider, as the Minister said, whether the construction of the oil refining plant, which will result in an increase in the Estonian CO2 emissions, because refining requires additional energy resources, is a climate-friendly investment. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment, Head of the Climate Policy Department, was doubtful about this in the Commission, of course he remained duly diplomatic for the official. And, of course, if the government makes such a decision, it is likely that such a request will also be made. There are doubts about this, however, as it is clearly stated that the investment must not help to increase the financial viability of highly emission-intensive production or increase dependence on emission-intensive fossil fuels, which oil shale naturally is. And just so much more that even though the word pair 'free units' sounds like that, since free units can be provided, it is possible to give the free units that can be given to Eesti Energia, so why not give it to them, in fact, these free units are the currency of the market. These are the same units that can alternatively be used for other investments. For example, the monetary value of 16 million units that Estonia is estimated to be able to use for the 10c derogation is today around 400 million euros. So this is State aid of some EUR 400 million in the area of fossil fuels, and it is certainly a signicant decision if such a decision is reached. The committee also asked why certain proposals of the Estonian Energy and Viru Chemistry Group were not taken into account when drafting the draft. It was said that companies wanted a wording that did not comply with the requirements of the Directive. There was also concern that the provision on the entry into force of the draft was not realistic. That is the transposition of the directive, which the Republic of Estonia is late to implement, as the deadline for transposition is 9 October, if I remember correctly, I am not going to look in the explanatory memorandum at the moment, which, given today's date, probably makes no sense for three readings. Of course, the laws of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia are being dealt with at the rate that it considers appropriate and there is no liability for the delay in submitting the government's drafts. It was decided in the Commission that the first reading could take place today and the deadline for amendments could be 7 October at 10 a.m. and I could report this draft in this Chamber. The decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U241	Thank you. Andres Metsoja's question to the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The Minister's presentation was also through the idea of a bureaucracy reduction package, which goes along with every good Estonian law and legal space bill. It was mentioned that this task was transferred from the Ministry of the Environment to the Environmental Board. Did you also discuss in the Commission what this package really contains? What is the expression of this reduction in bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U243	Thank you. It was not thoroughly focused on this, or it was now euphemism, but it was indeed noted that in 2019 the procedure would be transferred to the Environmental Board. The emissions trading system is not a "normal consumer' or a "generic consumer' system, it includes individual large industrial and energy companies, and therefore it is not a mass activity that should be treated in this way. On the one hand, the total amount of red tape in itself is not very high and, on the other hand, most of the requirements for reporting are pan-European and very strict. Within this same emissions trading system, the European Union has managed to ensure reporting and compliance adequacy of almost 99%. It is actually a very, very well-functioning system, one of the best functioning emission reduction systems in the world and the requirements are, of course, uniform, because the market is single. So it is probably not possible to change anything here in Estonia. But I'm not an expert, I should have asked the Minister what exactly this reporting looks like. I don't know how to answer that question in detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U244	Thank you. No further questions for the co-rapporteur. The speeches on behalf of the political groups have also not been requested, so we consider the draft law amending the law on the protection of the atmosphere to be complete at first reading. And as the co-rapporteur said, the deadline for submitting amendments to draft 54 is 7 October at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U245	Let's go to the next item. This is a draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 47. The rapporteur is Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U246	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety. The draft has been initiated because of the need to transpose three Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into national law. Directive 2017/2108 aims at modernising and harmonising safety requirements for passenger ships. The purpose of Directive 2017/2109 is to improve the safety of passengers and crew and the possibilities for rescue on passenger ships, as well as to ensure that search and rescue and the consequences of a possible accident are dealt with more effectively and that the competent authorities have operational information on persons on board passenger ships. Directive 2017/2110 aims at harmonising mandatory inspections on passenger ships and high-speed passenger craft and reducing duplicate control procedures. All three are existing directives, which have been amended in 2017 with a view to improving safety requirements on passenger ships. In national law, the provisions of these Directives are laid down in the Maritime Safety Act and in the regulations of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Maritime Safety Act amends, in particular, the provisions on passenger registration on passenger ships. Reeder is no longer required to keep a personal register where the number of persons present on board passenger ships and passenger lists are currently collected. Instead, both the number of persons on board passenger ships and the list of passengers will be transmitted to the electronic marine information system. The procedure shall remain in force where the passenger list must be drawn up only on routes over 20 nautical miles. In Estonia, such a line is a connection between the continent and Ruhnu. In addition to the information available, an indication of the nationality of the traveller shall be included in the passenger list. The amendment concerns only intra-Estonian trips and shipowners who, instead of the existing company's personal register, will transmit data to the electronic marine information system. This will reduce the administrative burden on these operators, as they will no longer have to maintain a personal register. The above requirements already apply at international level, i.e. to passenger ships sailing between different countries, and are established by the Convention on the facilitation of international maritime traffic. The purpose of the amendment is to digitise and accelerate data exchange in maritime transport and to ensure that rescue authorities have operational access to information on passengers on board ships in the event of a marine accident. Passenger data shall, as a general rule, be stored in the electronic marine information system until the ship's voyage has ended safely, except in cases where data are required for the completion of investigations or legal proceedings in the event of a marine casualty or for the purposes laid down in other legislation. Reeder's obligation to keep a personal register is deleted and, in this context, the obligation of the Maritime Administration to approve a personal register is also deleted from the Act. Under the new regime, the Maritime Administration must verify that the shipowner has procedures for the timely collection and transmission of data. In order to transpose the Directives, the Maritime Safety Act amends the mandate rule and introduces technical specifications. Directives and technical requirements have so far been regulated at the level of the regulation under the Maritime Safety Act and the amended Directive standards are also transposed into those regulations. Dear members of the Riigikogu, please support the law!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U247	Thank you, Minister. Are there any questions for the Minister in the hall? Doesn't look like it. Thank you, Minister. I would like to ask Kalev Kallo, member of the Economic Commission, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U248	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 47 at its regular meeting on Monday 16 September. The members of the Economic Commission were Annely Akkermann, Jüri Jaanson, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Korb, Kalvi Tõud, Kristen Michal and Kai Rimmel. Moonika Parksepp, Adviser to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Katrin Andre, Head of the Maritime Service of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Advisor to Aigi Farm, were invited. The Minister gave an overview as comprehensive as today of the amendment under the Directive, which we learned from the Commission, that in this respect, the passenger data on passengers in the maritime information system, which until now was entered in the register held by the shipowner, will have to be provided in more than 20 nautical miles in the future. There were some questions. Jüri Jaanson, Member of the Commission, examined where the 20 nautical miles requirement came from, i.e. why it is not, for example, five nautical miles. We have received a reply that the 20 nautical miles requirement is due to the current directive, which dates back to 1998, and the corresponding impact studies have probably already been carried out before the directive was introduced. The Moonika Parksepp stated that five nautical miles would be available in the absence of a licence for a recreational craft. There was no wider debate in the Commission. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 25 September (the decision was taken by consensus), that the first reading be closed (also a consensual decision) and that Kalev Kallo be appointed rapporteur (also a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U249	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U250	Amendments must be tabled within 10 working days.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U251	Thank you, dear waitress. Now's a chance to negotiate. Do members of the Riigikogu or political groups wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 47 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 47, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U252	Let's move on to today's agenda. The eighth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Energy Economy, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Taavi Aasa, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U253	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The aim of the draft is to eliminate unjustified differences in the Energy Economy Organisation Act, which means that the legislation in force in Estonia does not comply with the European Union's requirements. In order to transpose Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy efficiency, clarification is made to Paragraph 28 (1) of the Energy Economy Organisation Act. The possibility for a large distribution system operator and a transmission system operator not to carry out regular energy audits shall be excluded from the provision. This removes the unjustified distinction that is made to the distribution and transmission system operator pursuant to § 28 (1) of the Energy Economy Organisation Act. This change concerns two companies: Elektrileviosakond and AS Tallinna Sadam, where the Port of Tallinn has not used this distinction before, but has performed energy audits. So in the event that the law applies, this obligation also arises within the Electricity Division. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U254	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I would like Mr Kalvi Tõvi, member of the Economic Commission, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U255	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on 16 September. Just as in this Chamber, the Minister, along with the officials of his ministry, gave us an overview of the draft and answered all the questions in committee. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 25 September, to propose that the first reading be closed and that Kalvi Tahd be appointed rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U256	Thank you for a very meaningful presentation. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. We have completed the first reading of Bill 48. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft 48, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U257	Today's ninth item on the agenda is the first reading of the Bill 61 on the Amendment to the Traffic Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, relating to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Rapporteur, Mr Taavi Aas, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U258	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the law amending the Road Traffic Act, which relates to the possible departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The purpose of the draft is to prevent some of the UK driving licences of persons residing in Estonia from being revoked upon the entry into force of Brexit without agreement, thus granting a transitional period. The second objective is to allow the parking card issued in the United Kingdom for vehicles with reduced mobility or serving a blind person to continue to be valid in Estonia. The law provides for the possibility that, after Brexit without agreement, the permits issued by persons resident in Estonia in the United Kingdom will not automatically lapse. There are two options for amending the law: firstly, if Brexit were to take place without agreement, the driving licence of the person who moved to Estonia before Brexit, issued in the United Kingdom, would be valid after s. A further 12 months from 31 October 2004; and secondly, if Brexit were to take place, the driving licence of the person who moved to Estonia before the transitional period under the Brexit Treaty would be valid for a further 12 months after the end of the transitional period, i.e. from 31 December of the following year until the end of 2021. I would ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U259	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I would like to ask Kristen Michal, vice-chairman of the Economic Commission, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U260	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, As the Minister has already reported, there is an excellent draft on what happens with driving licences after Brexit takes place in one, another or third way. And that was what the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed on Monday, September 16. The subject matter was already reported by the Minister, and I have only the procedural part to mention, which says that it was proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 25 September, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments to be set at 5 p.m. on 2 October 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U261	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of Bill 61 has also been completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 2 October at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U262	Let's keep going. Today's 10th item is the first reading of Bill 73 of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali. Please, waitress Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U263	Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will bring a series of drafts before you for discussion. The first is the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian state during the French military operation in Barkhane Mali. As we are talking about the first mandate and there are more of them here by the hanger track, let me take this opportunity to say a few words about why we are in the first place in international military operations. In fact, it is our desire to confirm Estonia's commitment to contributing to the burden-sharing in order to achieve peace and stability in the world. Participation in these operations is one of the priorities of our security and defence policy for Estonia, which demonstrates us as a consumer of security, but also as a manufacturer, and ultimately supports the preservation of Estonia's security policy objectives. We will present to you 11 draft decisions. We are talking about operations that take place under the leadership of our allies and within the framework of the UN, NATO and the European Union and our allies. It should also be said that participating in international military operations is a unique tool in this sense that it allows us to be the focus of this very small circle of people who make strategic decisions in different countries. The likelihood that Estonia's topics will reach the four or five people involved in deploying troops to different countries for international operations is quite small. However, when it comes to sending troops, the President or Prime Minister of the Ops will always be interested in who are allies and how they support a particular country, be it the United States, France or Great Britain. In this sense, it is a very important foreign policy instrument. Now a few words about a specific mandate, Operation Barkhane. The operation is indeed led by France, but its legal basis is the invitation of the Republic of Mali to us. With Mali, we have also concluded a SOFA agreement that will give our soldiers and officers a diplomatic immunity or immunity during this operation. I consider the Mali operation to be very important because it is a real sign that we are taking seriously the security threats that come from the South. To our allies in southern Europe, both in the European Union and NATO, it is always very important when we demonstrate that, just as they take our concerns seriously and send troops to the Baltic States, we also take their concerns seriously. It is also very important that when we talk about stopping migration, we often talk about the need to act in the countries of departure and transit. Mali is both the country of dispatch and the country of transit of illegal migration. The stabilisation of this country and the support of its defence forces will make a major contribution to halting migration flows. This year we're in Mali with a mechanized infantry team. This is what we will continue to do by adding some fighters, specialists, who are proficient in medicine, fire control and demining. In general, we're within one group. In addition, Estonia will send a special unit, a special operator unit, which is initially a tactical unit of special operators and later a special group of special operations, if you give a mandate to do so. We are asking for a mandate to send 95 persons, but we are saying that there will be significantly fewer soldiers and officers there since the end of April, because more people will be sent in the first phase in the case of special forces, but later this figure will be significantly reduced. That's what I'm going to draw down right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U264	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Kalle Grünthal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U265	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Defence! Obviously, there is no doubt that this mission is necessary and that our boys should be there, but what I am interested in right now is that they come back safely, that is, their safety. In a way, security in your field is possible. Perhaps we're talking about ballistic vests with shields to protect against grenade fragments, bomb fragments, and bullets. But these shields have an expiration date, i.e. they can't be used after that. Would you personally be prepared to make sure that every person going on a mission gets a completely new ballistic vest so that in the event of a possible injury or impact, the survival rate is higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U266	Thank you. The answer is yes, but I would like to make it clear that in Mali we are not using jerseys right now, but vests fitted with tiles. These vests were obtained in 2017 and the warranty period granted by their factory is five years, so they are, in themselves, fully reliable. After the attack on Gao's base, which we all remember, the contingent commander inside the Defence Forces proposed to replace some flak jackets. We will do this as quickly as possible, and we will not link it to any major procurement of flak jackets, which we are also planning, but will respond to this proposal very quickly and with concrete actions. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U267	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like to ask Andres Metsoja, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U268	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Indeed, in the Commission we also dealt with these 11 draft decisions as a single package, we discussed the concerns, problems and possible solutions as a whole, and we received a comprehensive overview from the Minister, the representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Commander of the Defence Forces and the representatives of the sector. The minister made a good overview here today, but perhaps it should be mentioned that on the basis of this draft, the continuation of the Estonian Defence Forces unit's participation in the leading military operation in France will be decided by Barkhane and the maximum level of personnel of the Defence Forces unit will be increased from the current 50 Defence Forces to 95 Defence Forces. Operation Barkhane was launched as early as August 1, 2014. This is the French's largest foreign military operation with 4,500 personnel. Operation Barkhane supports the governments of the countries of the region in creating national stability. The Republic of Mali shall be the main focus of the entire operation. And the strategic objective of the operation is to manage the global, but above all European, challenges (terrorism and immigration) from the region. It is no secret that instability in Europe's southern borders continues and is facilitated by the spread of terrorism, armed rebellion and other security destabilising factors. As Mali's central government has been supported in the fight against Islamic extremism, extremist groups have already been severely weakened and the control of the central government has been largely restored to Mali's territory. The management of terrorism and illegal trade requires a joint effort and commitment from European countries, as the Minister has already mentioned many times. At the same time, the contribution of Estonia and France strengthens strategic, political and military relations and strengthens Estonia's position on important security issues in NATO and the European Union. The French unit has been known to participate in the NATO battle group in Estonia since 2017, which in turn is part of the First Infantry Brigade of the Defence Forces, while France will contribute to the battle group in 2021, and the French also participated in air security in the Baltic States in 2018. Returning to the draft under discussion, I say that Estonia will participate in this operation as decided by the Riigikogu in August 2018. According to the draft under discussion, the Defence Forces unit, consisting of a mechanised infantry team, a support element and a staff officer, is being supplemented by additional members of the Defence Forces involved in medicine, demining and fire management. In addition, Estonia is contributing separately to the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peacekeeping Mission, the draft extension of which is also in the Riigikogu proceedings and on the agenda of today's sitting. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 16 September, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of today's sitting of the Riigikogu and that the first reading be closed. I'll be the rapporteur for the draft committee. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus at this meeting that the deadline for submitting amendments would be ten working days due to the law, i.e. 9 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U269	Thank you, waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, so we have completed the first reading of draft 73. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U270	Today's 11th item is the first reading of Bill 69 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the framework of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. Please, Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U271	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic brings to you an extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is a well-known country, and Estonia's troops have been operating there for many years. According to how the nature of the mission changes, the presence of our forces has also changed, a rare profile. Next year we will continue to be part of the resolution support of the NATO organisation and we will have two special forces in Afghanistan. First of all, we have an infantry team in Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan, and secondly, we have a group of instructors in Mazar-e Sharif, North Afghanistan. With exactly the same composition we have been this year and we will continue next year. Next year, we will increase the actual contribution by one person, one pioneer, but the number applied for under the mandate will not increase; we are still talking about 46 fighters. The tasks of the infantry team shall be the security of training trainers in the mission, the performance of security tasks, rapid response in emergency situations and patrolling. The task of the demining team, other than the main activity, is to organise professional training for members of the Afghan security forces. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will say two more words about the political situation in Afghanistan. Of course, Estonia will monitor very closely what the peace process in Afghanistan will be like. As you know, US Government Special Representative, Ambassador Khalilzad is negotiating with the Taliban to reach a political agreement. But as we've all seen lately watching TV, another round of negotiations that was supposed to take place in Washington in front of the President of the United States, Donald Trump, didn't happen, it failed with a powerful bang. To date, it is not quite clear how the peace process will proceed. However, it is believed that the US is focusing on maintaining some kind of agreement, but as the Americans themselves have pointed out, this is not about total withdrawal of troops. In any case, at least on the basis of public sources, there are 8,000 US soldiers and officers in Afghanistan. It is quite clear that next year, there will be no change in the status of the forces that would affect the presence of our forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U272	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U273	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I would point out for a moment that you may have reported a bit of a wrong bill, it's not 69 OE.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U274	What bill? What point was he? [[Something's been answered in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U275	I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U276	Then we have come to the 12th item, as it turns out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U277	Then we've already covered one point. I'm so sorry. This is draft decision 69, indeed, in my file it was simply misplaced. We are talking about participating in the NATO Rapid Response Team NRF, where Estonia has participated again for years. The issue is that this is a rapid response unit which currently does not have a specific area of operation, but is ready to go to the operational area if NATO unanimously decides so. So this isn't about sending in a specific operation, it's about giving a mandate to those soldiers and officers who are supposed to be in this operation. So far, NRF units, NATO Rapid Response Teams have been used very little, mainly for humanitarian and security functions outside NATO territory, such as defence and security tasks at the Athens Olympic Games, the eradication of Hurricane Katrina's destruction, the eradication of the consequences of the earthquake in Pakistan and the security of the NATO Summit in Riga. We're requesting a mandate to send 210 soldiers and officers.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U278	Thank you. Now Bill 69 has been reported. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? No, it's not. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U279	Thank you. Again, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U280	I would like to ask Kalle Laanet, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U281	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The National Defence Committee discussed sending this draft to first reading at the meeting of 16 September, attended by Minister of Defence Jüri Luik, Major General Martin Herem, Commander of the Defence Forces, and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence. The Minister gave the Commission an as comprehensive overview as he did here, so this has been very thorough. At its meeting on 16 September (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to appoint me rapporteur for the draft and to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft under discussion. In addition, the committee (consensus) decided that the deadline for submitting amendments was 10 working days, i.e. the deadline of 9 October 2019 is 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U282	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, so the first reading of Bill 69 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U283	Let's keep going. Today's 12th item is the first reading of the Bill 72 of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan. Waitress Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik, repetition is the mother of wisdom, so let's hear it again. Please, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U284	Thank you. Yeah, we're talking about a training and counseling mission in Afghanistan. I talked about this mission quite thoroughly, and I will not repeat it all. Perhaps the members of the Riigikogu have questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U285	Yes, thank you! The members of the Riigikogu, however, have questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U286	Thank you, esteemed chief of staff. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned in your report that the negotiations, which were to be attended by the President of the United States, were cancelled. Is there any hope that they will come again now, or what kind of development could this be?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U287	Thank you. Overall, the American authorities are very sceptical about these negotiations, because the Taliban has not agreed to the most basic condition imposed by the Americans all the time. Indeed, the Taliban should negotiate with the current official government of Afghanistan, but since the Taliban does not recognise them as a legitimate government, they have so far avoided contacts. This is why the Americans are talking, above all, about the gradual withdrawal of troops, not about the complete withdrawal of troops. It is the Americans' wish, as I understand it, to continue for at least some time with a contingent in Afghanistan, even if there are some peace negotiations between the Taliban and the Afghan Government. So you can't see a full extraction right now. As far as the Taliban is concerned, another difficult problem has arisen. The Taliban is not united, it is not a state. Of course, there are a lot of different groups, some of them are negotiating peace, but some continue their acts of terror. Whether it is possible to conclude a peace treaty with them in a classic sense, that is very questionable at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U288	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I would like Martin Repinski, member of the National Defence Commission, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U289	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion allows up to 46 Estonian Defence Forces to continue to contribute to the NATO-led advisory and training mission RSM next year. These are training, counselling and support tasks, i.e. the forces of the States contributing directly to RSM's battle activities will not participate. In 2020, it is planned to continue to contribute to the infantry team's support element and staff officer in the United Kingdom unit and with two military police officers in Kabul, as well as with a demining team of four and a staff officer in the Northern Afghanistan region of the Framework State, led by Germany. The continuation and strengthening of the RSM, and thereby supporting Afghanistan, is essential in order to maintain the progress achieved so far since 2001. In order to ensure that Afghanistan does not become a pillar of international terrorism again, the support of the Allied forces on the ground to the Afghan security forces is important. At the meeting of 16 September this year, the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and the Commander-in-Chief of the Defence Forces Major General Martin Herem presented the draft decision of the Riigikogu and the drafts of other mandates with the participation of the Defence Forces to the members of the committee under discussion. The National Defence Committee also received an overview of the foreign missions taking part in the Estonian Defence Forces and the preparations for continuing in Afghanistan. Estonia has participated in RSM since 2015. Continuation of the mission and support for Afghan security forces will continue to be important. Due to the legal basis of the mission, an agreement on the status of forces has been concluded between NATO and Afghanistan, Estonia fulfils its obligations under the alliance's membership by participating in this mission. At its meeting on 16 September 2019, the National Defence Committee decided to consensually propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus at this meeting that the deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days, as is the Riigikogu's rules of procedure and home, so the deadline is 9 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U290	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 72 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U291	Let's keep going. The 13th item is the first reading of Bill 71 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Forces' submitted by the Government of the Republic. I'd like the Secretary of Defense, Jüri Luige, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U292	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Bill 71 is the use of the Defence Forces in the United Kingdom Joint Expedition Forces. The Joint Expeditionary Force (JEF) is a so-called will coalition initiated and managed by Great Britain. Perhaps it is a force that is not directly part of one or another international organisation, but is able to cooperate mainly in the performance of NATO's tasks, either as a NATO subordinate entity or as a separate entity. On the basis of a joint decision by the Member States, the JEF focuses on ensuring security in the Baltic Sea region and in the North Atlantic. This focus also clearly strengthens the defence and deterrence stance in the Baltic countries. JEF's primary partner countries were Estonia, the Netherlands, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway and Denmark. Already this list shows that this is a region of ours. In 2017, Finland and Sweden joined JEF. This unit, as well as NATO's response unit, is on standby. Our soldiers and officers, once again, are not out on any mission, but are ready to go on a mission if JEF is launched. The JEF will be launched by a decision of the Member States. JEF plays a very important role in our security, because I recall the biggest exercise in this summer on the territory of Estonia was the so-called Baltic Protector, which was precisely the JEF exercise. The UK battalion, which is constantly located in Estonia, and also a number of units from the Navy, the Army and the Air Force, who are part of the JEF, but also mainly the British units, took part. We ask for a mandate for 24 members of the Defence Forces, including a four-member anti-IED team, a three-member strategic communication team, a five-member medical team, an air-fire leader, a four-member mine-tower team and a seven-member support element. All in all, as has already been said, up to 24 militias. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U293	Thank you, Minister. You have questions too. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U294	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We now hear new news from Britain every day. Can you comment on how the process that is going on there, Brexi or not, will affect the same unit and his work?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U295	Thank you for your question. As far as Brexit is concerned, there is absolutely no indication that it concerns the United Kingdom's international obligations concerning the duty of defence. On the contrary, Britain has further activated its activities in NATO, including here on Estonian soil. The British themselves say very nicely about this, in my opinion, that Britain is leaving the European Union, but will not leave Europe. And now that the part of the European Union is weak or falls away, Britain has a perfectly logical objective of strengthening its participation in NATO, which finally gives them the opportunity to influence and participate in European affairs. So there is no British Framework Battalion here, no JEF response unit already mentioned, nor any other British military commitment has this Brexit process affected, and I do not see such a risk now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U296	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U297	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! I have, in some ways, the question of my colleague Urve Tiidus. The United Kingdom is likely to move towards the general elections and this, in turn, could, of course, lead to more fundamental changes in the governance of the United Kingdom. How much do you and the Ministry of Defence have in mind about the views of the Labour Party on defence policy? Have you yourself had meetings with the Defense Minister of the Labour Shadow Government or people who could potentially shape this defence policy if the elections went to the benefit of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U298	Thank you. We've had pretty close contact with our embassy and diplomats. The Minister of Shadow Defence of the Labour Party also accompanied the parliamentary delegation in Estonia. I wasn't in Estonia at the time, and I couldn't meet him in person, and then our chancellor of the Ministry of Defence met. So there are contacts. But, of course, our main partner is still the British Government. And as always in transnational relations, the iron rule is that the British people decide what their government is like. We're in contact with the government that works at White Hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U299	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I now request Peeter Rahnel, member of the National Defence Commission, as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U300	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft 71 before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 16 September. The author's representative, Minister of Defence Jüri Luik, attended, whose very thorough presentation we heard then and also today, and Major General Martin Herem, Commander of the Defence Forces, and representatives of the Ministry of Defence. The United Nations Force is a will coalition initiated, owned and managed by the United Kingdom and with membership from other countries. The activities of the Unit Expeditionary Forces shall be capable of acting independently or in the presence of any other major military unit. The participation of the United Kingdom military force is a continuation of very close and long-term bilateral cooperation with the United Kingdom, taking into account both the cooperation in operations in Afghanistan and the military presence of UK units in Estonia within the framework of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) Battle Group. The United Kingdom is one of Estonia's most important and closest defence cooperation allies. At its meeting on 16 September, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint Peeter Rahnel as rapporteur and to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be included for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu, including the 25 September session. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft decision be terminated. The deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days by law, i.e. 9 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U301	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you either. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 71 is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U302	Let's keep going. Extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and in the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali, at the first reading of the Bill 70. Please, waitress Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U303	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We're still talking about our troops in Mali. In addition to Operation Barkhane, there are two other important missions in which Estonia is and wishes to continue if you give the mandate. One is the European Union Mission in Mali, which aims to develop the military capabilities of the Malian Armed Forces and thereby improve the security situation in Mali. The Mali mission is one of the most important military missions of the European Union, to which the 27 countries of the European Union contribute up to 600 Defence Forces. Estonia has been participating in this mission since 2013. Estonia is planning to continue to participate in the mission with up to ten members of the Defence Forces, but our actual contribution is currently five Defence Forces. This whole mission is operating in Bamako, Mali's capital and near it. Secondly, Minusma, which is a United Nations mission and also operates in Mali. The mission of the United Nations is to implement the peace and reconciliation agreement in Mali, the so-called Algerian agreement, in which the various parties to the civil war in Mali have entered into a peace agreement. The UN acts within the framework of this peace treaty and by supporting and monitoring the terms of the peace agreement. Again, Estonia is participating in the mission since 2013. The plan is to continue with up to ten members of the Defence Forces, but our actual contribution is now three staff officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U304	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you right now. I would like to ask Jaak Juske, Member of the National Defence Commission, to co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U305	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! As with other similar drafts today, the National Defence Committee discussed the extension of our foreign missions at its meeting on 16 September. As the Minister said, this draft concerns two foreign missions in Mali and the participation of Estonian Defence Forces in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission, where we extend the mandate and mandate for a year. In fact, it is a particularly great pleasure that there is a supra-national consensus between all political groups on defence issues and on the extension of foreign missions. Thus, at its meeting on 16 September, the National Defence Committee decided to include the first reading of the draft on the agenda of today's sitting and to invite the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading. By the deadline for submitting amendments, we offer 10 working days, or 9 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U306	Thank you, dear waitress. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, so the first reading of draft 70 has also been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U307	Today's 15th item is the first reading of Bill 68 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations'. I'm requesting Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U308	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will bring before you draft decision No 68. We are talking about the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state, either in a military operation led by NATO or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. We have been asking the Riigikogu for years, and we have also received an "exceptional mandate" for the use of up to 50 defence forces. The exact size of Estonia's contribution depends on the needs of the specific operation and our possibilities, they are staff officers, specific units or some sort of niche capabilities. This mandate will allow us to respond as flexibly as possible to escalating situations that are not easily foreseeable. An exceptional mandate is necessary to be flexible and fast and therefore reliable allies, that is our firm trump. The goal, of course, is not to take our response rate to hours, but inevitably such a need may arise, for example, within a week. As a general rule, however, the processing of mandates is time-consuming to a certain extent and we therefore consider it appropriate to have such an exceptional mandate. It is quite clear that we are talking in extreme situations. We are not talking about a time when we will be able to deal calmly with one or the other specific mandate. Of course, participation in such an operation requires a decision of the Government of the Republic, and of course the Riigikogu and the President of the Republic are also informed about it. We have never used this mandate to this day, which in itself demonstrates that we take this mandate very seriously and are ready to use it in an exceptional situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U309	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. And I would like to ask Leo Kunnas, member of the National Defence Commission, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U310	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of Defense! Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of this draft, the participation of up to 50 Estonian Defence Forces in the international obligations of the Estonian State will be decided upon by contributing to this for the first time to another international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. Perhaps this draft concerns all the types of operation that we basically have four: NATO operations, operations led by some NATO Member States, or voluntary coalition operations in rural languages, European Union operations and UN operations. As in previous years, we are now applying for the mandate of the Riigikogu by 2020 pursuant to § 34 (4) of the National Defence Act. For the sake of clarity, and with your kind permission, I will read to you this shearing. Paragraph 34 (4) of the National Defence Act: 'The Riigikogu shall, by decision, determine for each year the maximum number of active military personnel who may participate in the first contribution to the international military operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or the United Nations. The continued use of the Defence Forces in the same operation shall be decided on in general terms in accordance with paragraph 1 of this section. ' I am not going to dwell on the aspects that the Minister has already talked about. Should such a situation arise now, of course, before our unit goes out, the decision will pass through the Riigikogu National Defence Committee and by this we will retain parliamentary control over it. Pursuant to § 34 61 of the National Defence Act, this will be communicated to the President of the Republic, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and the Chairman of the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. The draft decision of the Riigikogu and other missions involving the Defence Forces were presented to the members of the committee at the meeting on 16 September 2019 by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik, Major General Martin Herem, Head of the Defence Forces, and other representatives of the Ministry of Defence. And procedural decisions. At its meeting of 16 September 2019 (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of the session of the Riigikogu on 25 September and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. I was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. The National Defence Committee also decided at the same meeting (consensus) that the deadline for submitting amendments was 10 working days due to the law, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m. That's all. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U311	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations either, so the first reading of the draft 68 has been completed. The deadline for amendments is 9 October, including 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U312	Today's 16th item is the first reading of the draft 67th reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' presented by the Government of the Republic. Please, waitress Secretary of Defense Jüri Luik!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U313	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We are talking about a draft decision of 67, a peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria, the so-called UNTSO (United Nations Truce Supervision Organization) in the Middle East. It is the oldest military observation mission and a rather classical peacekeeping mission, first established in 1948. A total of 153 military observers from 26 Member States participate in this oldest peacekeeping mission. As you can see from this list of countries, there are constant tensions between these countries. Conflicts have also erupted over the past year, for example between the Hezbollah group in southern Lebanon and Israel. Our observers, like all 153 other military observers from a total of 26 Member States, are classic UN observers who are unarmed. And physical defence among these unarmed observers is guaranteed by other United Nations missions. Estonia has been participating in this mission since 1997, so it is a very long-term mission. Estonia's contribution has been increased to six members of the Defence Forces in 2014, and we are still asking for a mandate for the deployment of six members of the Defence Forces. Really, we have three members of the Defence Forces on the mission right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U314	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I would like to ask Madis Milling, member of the National Defence Commission, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U315	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of this draft, up to the end of 2020 the deadline for the use of six Defence Forces in UN-led peacekeeping missions in UNTSO Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria will be extended. The military observation mission mentioned in the draft is based on UN Security Council Resolution No 50 of 1948 and Estonian Defence Forces have been participating in this mission as military observers and staff officers since 1997. In the interests of saving time, I will not go over all that the honourable Minister of Defence has already said, but I do think it is necessary to stress that, although the draft states include Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria, there are no observers in Syria at the moment. UNTSO took the observers from its manned observation points by intensifying their combat activities. If the security situation allows it, it will return to Syria as observers. So at the moment, the Estonian Defence Forces are not expected to enter Syria. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before presenting it to first reading, including at its meeting on 16 September, where the draft and related matters were presented by Minister of Defence Jüri Luik and by Major General Martin Herem, the Commander of the Defence Forces who accompanied him. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 16 September, the National Defence Committee decided unanimously to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's sitting of the Riigikogu and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. Johannes Kert was appointed rapporteur for the National Defence Committee, whom I am replacing today because of circumstances. The National Defence Committee also unanimously decided that the deadline for submitting amendments was, by law, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U316	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, so the first reading of draft 67 is also complete. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be set at 5.15 p.m. on 9 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U317	Let's keep going. Today's 17th item is the first reading of Inherent Resolve Bill 66 of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State. I'm requesting Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U318	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! According to Riigikogu decision 66, we would be given a mandate to participate in the international military operation Inherent Resolve, which is an anti-terrorism operation led by the United States, specifically against ISIL. The Americans are at the head of an international coalition operating on Iraqi territory in the fight against terrorism. The legal basis for this operation is an invitation from the Iraqi Government. We have been involved in this operation, whose name has changed in the meantime, in the long term, and the Estonian troops have been in Iraq for a very long time. We ask you to take part in the operation with up to 20 members of the Defence Forces. In this case, we have six armed forces on our mission plus one military officer in headquarters in Baghdad.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U319	Thank you, Minister. There are no questions for you right now. I request Ants Laaneots, Member of the National Defence Commission, as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U320	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 16 September. This has been said many times here, but I repeat that this session was attended on behalf of the author of the draft by Minister of Defence Jüri Luik, Major General Martin Herem, Commander of the Defence Forces, and representatives of the Ministry of Defence. On the basis of the draft, it is necessary to decide to continue the participation of up to 20 members of the Defence Forces in an international military operation against the United States-led ISIL (full-named Islamic State of Iraq and Levant), Inherent Resolve, which in translation should mean 'an unshakable will'. The objective of the operation shall be to provide immediate support to ISIL, in particular in Iraq and Syria, but the elements and staff in charge and support of the operation shall also be located in Bahrain, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Qatar, Kuwait, Cyprus, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia and Turkey. The training of Iraqi security forces is an important task of the operation. Operation Inherent Resolve, led by the United States, was launched in June 2014. Estonia has been participating in this mission since August 2016. Compared to last year's mandate, the maximum number of members of the Defence Forces will then be increased from 15 to 20 for the next year. Due to the need for Iraqi training and due to the possible need to adjust the focus of the operation, the maximum number of members of the Defence Forces set out in the draft allows Estonia to contribute further and more flexibly to the operation when the need arises. Maybe some details. The mandate has been given to up to 20 members of the Defence Forces. During the rotation period, the maximum amount of military personnel may be increased to 40 members of the Defence Forces for one month, i.e. those who were will hand things over to those who came. And I would also like to remind you that it is extremely important that we participate in the operation of the United States-led coalition of will, which also very well supports the allied relationship between Estonia and the United States in defence and security cooperation. In addition, the operation shall provide direct cooperation with Denmark. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 16 September, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint me rapporteur and to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be included for the first reading on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu including 25 September. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft decision be terminated. The deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days by law, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U321	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you either. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, so the first reading of Bill 66 is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be including 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U322	The 19th item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, entitled 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation mission in Iraq'. I'd like the Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige to report.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U323	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is our second mission in Iraq, one of which was already discussed here by Inhenent Resolve, but NATO also has its own mission in Iraq, the so-called NMI (NATO Mission Iraq), which primarily supports and advises the reconstruction of Iraqi defence capabilities. The NATO mission was set up at the request of the Iraqi Government to provide additional support to the government's efforts to stabilise the country and to train it, to help train Iraq's own instructors, who would then be able to train its own security structures. The existence of a professional defence sector is necessary for the wider stability of Iraq and the region. Estonia intends to continue its participation in the mission. Requesting permission to participate with up to five members of the Defence Forces. The actual contribution is a staff officer, as well as defence officers in the joint training team of Norway, Denmark, Lithuania and Estonia. The duties of the Chief of Staff are to coordinate training and, of course, to provide specialist training for Iraqi security forces. The legal basis for participation in the operation is the invitation of the Iraqi Prime Minister to the UN countries to participate in the fight against ISIL, as well as the bilateral agreements between Estonia and Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U324	Thank you, Minister. No questions for you. I now ask Anneli Oti, member of the National Defence Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U325	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to first reading at its meeting on 16 September. At this meeting, the defence minister Jüri Luik, the representative of the drafters, Major General Martin Herem, the Commander of the Defence Forces, and representatives of the Ministry of Defence took part, who gave the members of the Commission a detailed and very meaningful overview of the mission. For my part, I would add to the information provided by the Minister that the NMI advises and provides training and does not participate in combat operations with Iraqi forces. The NMI will coordinate its activities with the United Nations, the European Union and the Iraqi countries in order to step up their efforts to support Iraq. In addition to the substantive part, I will also issue procedural decisions. At its meeting on 16 September, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint me rapporteur and to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft be included for the first reading on the agenda of the sitting of the Riigikogu including 25 September. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft decision be terminated. The deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days by law, including 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U326	Thank you, dear waitress. Your presentation was so exhaustive that the members of the Riigikogu have no questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations, so the first reading of draft 65 is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be including 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U327	Today's penultimate, 19th item is the first reading of the Bill 64 of EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission. The rapporteur is Minister of Defence Jüri Luik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U328	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft decision of the Riigikogu 64 speaks of Estonia's participation in the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia. We are talking about an operation set up by the European Union in the summer of 2015 to prevent and prevent the activities of criminal networks involved in trafficking in human beings and the deaths of refugees on their journey across the Mediterranean. In addition, the mission will provide training to the Libyan Coast Guard and Navy and contribute to the implementation of the UN arms embargo off the Libyan coast. The mandate of the operation was last extended in March 2019 for a period of six months, i.e. September 2019. It was agreed in Brussels in September that the mandate would be extended for another six months, i.e. until 30 March 2020. We are participating to contribute jointly and severally to the European Union's military operations. And we will be involved in this operation with one of the staff officers responsible for monitoring the situation and coordinating the activities. As has been said, its mandate has been granted by the Council of the European Union until 30 March 2020, but we expect this mandate to be renewed every six months. There is a very complex political dispute about this mandate. In fact, EUNAVFOR was mainly a fleet mission and therefore, according to the Law of the Sea, all those refugees who were in danger of drowning rescued and boarded the ship. However, as we know, there were no countries that would have accepted these refugees. This dispute, which, of course, concerns a much more complex and broader context of issues and complexes than this particular issue of mission, has made it increasingly difficult to issue a mandate for this operation. The extension was mainly due to the fact that in essence the ship's participation in the operation has been terminated and the mission has become a training mission. But, as has been said, we are asking for a mandate for a full year and we believe that the European Union will also extend the mandate of this mission itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U329	Thank you, Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. I would like to ask Alar Laneman, a member of the National Defence Commission, as co-rapporteur here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U330	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft will allow up to six Estonian Defence Forces to continue to contribute to the EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia military mission next year. Currently, 26 EU countries contribute to this. The objective of the mission is to prevent trafficking in human beings in the Central Mediterranean between Italy and Malta's territorial sea and Libya. As mentioned, Estonia has been participating in the mission since August 2015. Estonia has also contributed financially to the missions in the past, for example the training of the Libyan Coast Guard. By participating in the mission, Estonia fulfils its allied responsibilities arising from its membership of the European Union, and this also enhances Estonia's external political visibility. The mission has also received legitimate support through UN Security Council resolutions. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft together with the Minister of Defence Jüri Luige, Major General Martin Herem, Commander of the Defence Forces, and other officials of the Ministry of Defence, including at its meeting on 16 September. The Commission received an in-depth review of the progress of the mission and of the preparations for the continuation of the mission. The committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be included on the agenda of today's sitting for the first reading. I was appointed waitress of the bill. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The deadline for submitting amendments is 10 working days, i.e. 10 working days, in accordance with the law. 9 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U331	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 64 is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be including 9 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U332	Today's last item is the first reading of Bill 63 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon'. I'm requesting Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U333	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Draft 63 is an extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of international obligations on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, the so-called UNIFIL. I recall that Estonia has been a very active member of UNIFIL. We were there, for example, from spring 2015 until autumn 2018, with an entire infantry group and support element in the composition of the Finnish-Irish Joint Battalion. Then we have participated with a staff officer. As far as our infantry team is concerned, as the Finnish-led battalion left UNIFIL and took up other peacekeeping tasks, our team also left UNIFIL's membership, but we considered it important that the Estonian flag is still standing in this very important international peacekeeping operation. We are talking about peacekeeping, which is responsible for preventing hostilities, supporting Lebanese armed forces in South Lebanon and coordinating actions between Lebanon and the Israeli Government on these issues. The task is also to help ensure the availability of humanitarian aid and to support the safe return of internal refugees to their homes. In addition, the Lebanese armed forces will be helped to establish an area free of arms and armed persons in this area. UNIFIL shall have the right to take all necessary measures to prevent hostilities in the operational area and to protect its personnel, buildings and equipment. We're gonna be with a staff officer, and I'm gonna ask for a mandate for up to three members of the Defence Forces. UNIFIL actually plays a very important role in the region. In essence, it is the only significant international force with very close contacts with both the Lebanese and Israeli governments and Hezbollah in southern Lebanon. It could be said that if UNIFIL were not there, the likelihood of a conflict would be much higher, but, as I have already mentioned in the proceedings on a previous mandate, there will be moments of tension. The latter was just when Hezbollah shot Israel's armored car by Lebanon, and Israel responded at random. Fortunately, nothing bad happened, and today this incident has been solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U334	Thank you, Minister. You don't have any questions. I now request Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission, as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U335	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Honorable Secretary of Defense! I am honoured to be a waitress for this very specific draft of the second Riigikogu. The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before presenting it to first reading, including at its meeting on 16 September, attended by Minister of Defence Jüri Luik, Major General Martin Herem, Head of the Defence Forces, and officials of the Ministry of Defence. As the Minister for Defence has already said, this is a mission of the United Nations classic 'blue helmets'. It has a total of 10323 peacekeepers from 42 countries. As a small reminder, the Estonian Defence Forces participated in this same mission in 1996-1997 with a company-sized unit, and this was the second foreign mission of the Estonian Defence Forces. Until 2018, the Estonian UNIFIL mission contributed to the infantry group and its support element with a total of 55 Defence Forces members of the Finnish-Irish Joint Battalion, but since Finland unilaterally stopped contributing the company size unit to this battalion, Estonia also reduced the number of Defence Forces members on the mission to up to three. Here I can add that in the previous composition of the Riigikogu, I was able to visit the same Finnish-Irish joint battalion in Lebanon. Why, when Finland stopped participating, did we have to stop? Apart from our defence cooperation with Finland, I note, in an interesting detail, that it was also very important that our unit used Finnish-origin armored vehicles there, so we have the same kind of armored vehicles, so the know-how is available, and for the sake of political correctness, Finnish automatics were also carried, because walking around with the Israeli-origin Gaul in Lebanon would not have been the most sensible thing to do. Procedural decisions. At its meeting on 16 September, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to appoint me rapporteur for the committee and to propose that the Riigikogu stop reading the draft. In addition, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus that the deadline for submitting amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 9 October, in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-09-25_U336	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Last chance today. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 63 is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments shall be including 9 October at 5.15 p.m. Honourable Riigikogu! Today's trial is over. Thank you, everyone. See you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 6.40 p.m.
