ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm happy to welcome you. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that today is like the first day of school. Everyone's very excited. I would like to welcome you not to your new starting school day, but to your working week. We will begin the Monday session of the 8th working week of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. I'll be the first to speak to Kaja Kallas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U2	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, We will present an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Mart Helme, in the media, said: "We see how the prosecutor's office, who ends up in some cases, initiates criminal cases on other occasions and does so on very clearly visible political motives. ' The Minister's word has great weight and, in particular, the Minister for the Interior has a particular weight, as he calls into question an independent investigation. The law provides for the independence of the prosecutor's office, the way in which he must behave in the performance of his duties. Since this has been called into question, we are asking questions and we want answers to the following questions. Based on what facts is it claimed that the investigation in Estonia is politically dependent? Is there any record of this? If it is, we'd like to know the data. There are still a number of questions for the Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U3	Next, please, Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U4	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law amending the Sport Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Culture Tõnis Lukas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and one inquiry; the Management Board decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. I have a message to tell you. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be an opening meeting of the HIV and drugs support group in this Chamber. The caller is Vilja Thomas. Now we're going to do a presence check. 92 members of the Riigikogu are present, there is no 9. I vote on the Riigikogu plenary... Yeah, I'm sorry! Taavi in the garment, is it a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U6	Good manager! You will have only one item on the agenda this week, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on epizootic diseases and other laws. At the same time, on Wednesday, where, among other things, the changes to the state budget for this year and the state budget for next year are being discussed, at least three very large issues have been put forward, each of which would deserve special attention: the fundamentals of criminal policy, the fundamentals of legislative policy, as well as the presentation by the Auditor General. Would it not be more reasonable to move them to Thursday so that the agendas are even more equal and that we can pay attention to all issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U7	Thank you. I fully share this concern and the point, but since these discussions and readings have been presented by the committees, these are the deadlines proposed by the committees, we came up against it in the Bureau. And we raised a bill on Thursday, which otherwise wouldn't have been there, but otherwise Thursday would have been completely empty. So to a small extent, however, we tried to share the workload. Yes, please, in the Tavi Clothe!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U8	Thank you. Well, everyone understands that the debate on the state budget is likely to last for some time, and there is also a draft law on pension insurance. Why keep the Auditor General waiting long after them? Or even after other day-hopping points, which, as I said, require more attention. I believe that the large Chamber of Riigikogu has the right to make changes to the Commission's proposals in any case, and therefore I think it would be appropriate, for example, to raise the 6th, 7th and 10th points, or at the discretion of the Bureau, on Thursday so that we do not have to hold a Wednesday debate until Thursday morning and then on Thursday morning after 15 minutes of discussion. It doesn't make any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U9	Unfortunately, this proposal does not fit well, because on Thursdays there is a government hearing and Raivo Time has to participate. However, his presentation to the Riigikogu with Janar Holm has been agreed in advance for quite a long time. But I promise you that tomorrow we will have a Bureau meeting, we will consider this proposal, and maybe we can really make some changes to the agenda tomorrow. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U10	Thank you. I doubt that a fixed agenda can be changed any more. However, I do have a suggestion that in future the Bureau take a slightly more active role in planning the agenda than happened this week. This should not be a matter of dispute between the opposition and coalition, and especially things such as the National Audit Office reviews or whatever reports are ideally suited on Thursday. Wednesday night is a very vague time for waiters, and certainly for us. It's too tight the day after tomorrow, compared to Thursday.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U11	Thank you. Yes, the governing board of the Riigikogu can change the agenda on an ongoing basis. Siret Eagle-Repinski, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U12	The Group of the Estonian Centre Party does not agree to change the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U13	Got it. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U14	Just one more small observation. It is possible for the Riigikogu to take a ten-minute break, summon the chairmen of the committees and ask whether it is ready to take the debate on the fundamentals of legislative policy, for example, to Thursday. And it is certainly possible to contact the Auditor General during this period and ask whether this is possible. And if there is a proposal from the Bureau to change the agenda, the Centre Party may stick to its position. But the Bureau's proposal in this case would be to do a little more work on Thursday and reduce the burden on Wednesday a little.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U15	Yes, but all the political groups are represented in the committees and these dates are presented by the committees. If one party is against change, it probably won't work. Thank you. However, we are discussing this issue in the Bureau so that in future we may be able to share items more evenly. I am now voting on the approval of the 8th working week agenda of the 2nd plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 52 delegates in favour of the agenda, 3 against and 4 abstentions. [[There's a big buzz in the hall.]] 52 votes for, 3 against and 4 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U16	We go to today's inquiry, which is Signe Riisalo, Erkki Keldo, Vilja Toomasti, Annely Akkermanni, Signe Kivi, Maris Lauri, Jüri Jaanson... Colleagues, a little quieter, please. ... Kalle Laaneti, Helmen Küti, Riina Sikkuti, Liina Kersna, Andres Suti, Marko Mihkelson, Kristina Šmigun-Vähi, Urmas Kruuse, Ants Laaneots, Urve Tiidus, Eerik-Niles Krossi and Yoko Alenderi submitted an inquiry into psychosocial crisis relief on 26 September this year. The speaker's representative may speak for up to 5 minutes, then the minister's answer shall be up to 15 minutes. Any member of the Riigikogu can ask one oral question for a period of 1 minute and then negotiations will come. Signe Riisalo, member of the Riigikogu, will take the floor today as the representative of the heirs, says Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik. Signe Riisalo, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U17	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good manager! Minister of Social Affairs Tanel Kiik! The inquiry we make with the members of the Riigikogu is guided by concerns about the lack of a psychosocial crisis assistance system in Estonia. When I wrote this question just before the anniversary of the disaster in Estonia, I could not have known that at the end of October there was a new difficult situation in Estonia that, fortunately, did not bring great human suffering. But it could have happened freely. And it also illustrates what would be necessary for the central organisation of psychosocial crisis assistance in Estonia. As I have already said in my inquiry and in this presentation, psychosocial crisis assistance is not merely a psychological service. It is considerably wider and affects much larger target groups than are immediate sufferers. In addition to immediate sufferers, the relatives of the victim or victims, and perhaps people who have witnessed what has happened, need help. I am thinking here of those who have witnessed a tragic event, either directly or otherwise, in very direct contact with it. Or the whole family of Viljandi school shooting was actually disturbed and deeply traumatized by what happened. Similarly, such events and their impact on our mental health have been disrupted by the general public. It is not less important that the helpers themselves, or emergency and rescue workers, are also receiving psychosocial crisis assistance, as well as the police who come on the ground and are constantly exposed to extremely traumatic events. In addition, the communication side is very important. Communication is what determines people's attitude to events. Regulating crisis communication by providing people with adequate, uniform information about the event, its cost, its consequences and potential victims is crucial. Of course, the media is doing their job and trying to obtain maximum information to share it with their monitors, but it is not coordinated, nor is it properly targeted information. Against this background, it is very important that the country is ready to react quickly in the event of major disasters. Psychosocial crisis assistance means a response within 24 hours. The next stage is within two weeks and only then will the psychologists who assist people over a longer period of time come into play. Why is that necessary? It is precisely to reduce and ultimately prevent the signs of post-traumatic syndrome. In fact, it can significantly improve the mental health of our population. We know that there are more and more mental health concerns, and they unfortunately keep a large number of people away from the labour market or educational establishments. So we will be happy to listen to the Minister to find out what the state of play on the organisation of psychosocial crisis relief is. How can this service be obtained now? What is the plan for future steps? What are the resources that we can count on in the future to provide psychosocial crisis assistance?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U18	Thank you. Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiigi, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U19	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The subject that is being asked about today, or asked about, is really very important. This is undoubtedly work and issues that need to be dealt with not only by our Ministry, but also by very many involved partners and local authorities all over Estonia. I'll start with a little background, and then I'll go to specific questions. Psychosocial crisis assistance is a process of assistance that, on a case-by-case basis, focuses on solving tasks to support the mobilisation of personal, social and other resources of people affected by the crisis. The aim is to help them cope with what has happened and to quickly reduce its impact on the day-to-day functioning. At national level, events that threaten the life or health of many people and require rapid concerted action by several institutions or persons involved in them are regarded as crises or emergencies. For example, various major accidents, as has already been pointed out, terrorist attacks, war situations, and other such incidents. Accidents outside Estonia, terrorist attacks, air crashes, etc., which we have unfortunately seen, can also cause the crisis situation. In Estonia, the Emergency Act applies by means of its implementing acts. It is the duty of the Ministry of Social Affairs to ensure the functioning of critical areas in emergency situations, such as inpatient specialist medical care, emergency medical care, drinking water and family service. And, of course, it is also necessary to provide psychosocial crisis assistance in emergency situations, although this is not mentioned in the Emergency Act. However, the Population Protection Task Force has highlighted the need to develop a system of psychosocial crisis assistance involving the private sector and representatives of voluntary associations with the necessary preparation, which can be implemented depending on the size of the crisis. As a result, in the second half of 2018, the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the Victim Support Department of the Social Insurance Board, started to develop a system for the organisation of psychosocial crisis assistance. In the same year, in 2018, the first plan for providing psychosocial crisis assistance was completed. It was agreed that the victim assistance of the Social Insurance Board was the contact point for the organisation of psychosocial crisis assistance in emergency situations. There have been some cases where crisis assistance has been provided on a case-by-case basis. Some of them have already been referred to: the tragic disaster with Estonia in 1994, the accident with the Pala school bus in 1996, the fire at the Haapsalu orphanage in 2011, the shooting at the Viljandi Paalalinna School in 2014 and the terrorist attack in Nice, France, on 14 July 2016. The latter was the first experience of a terrorist attack in our view, where an important part of the assistance offered had to be resolved on an ongoing basis, because, in addition to everything else, the attack was carried out abroad. Going to specific issues now, I note that psychosocial crisis assistance is a mandatory component of all emergency response plans of all emergency agencies, the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board, the Health Board and the Environmental Board. The Social Insurance Institution is the leading institution which develops the capacity to organise psychosocial assistance in a variety of emergency situations, including the number of victims or events with a large impact in the years 2019 to 2022. The Social Insurance Institution becomes the competence centre for psychosocial crisis assistance. This means, on the one hand, a leading role in the management of psychosocial crisis assistance in crisis situations, and, on the other hand, the pooling and sharing of competences in this area. According to the Emergency Act, emergency response is initiated by a specific emergency management authority, i.e. the Police and Border Guard Board, the Rescue Board, the Health Board or the Environmental Board, as the case may be. They have emergency plans, or the Holps. The HRP provides for cooperation arrangements based on the specific nature of each authority, in which emergency management authority and the authorities involved have agreed on emergency management arrangements. The crisis management authority evaluates the emergency situation and includes victim assistance in accordance with the agreement, which then launches the organisation of psychosocial crisis assistance in accordance with the emergency plan for the provision of psychosocial crisis assistance to the HRP. Currently, the Head of the Victim Assistance Department, Jako Salla, is a specific contact person at the Social Insurance Board in these matters. In the future, involvement will take place through the emergency helpline 116006 this is such a vision for the future. At present, victims' support workers from all over Estonia are providing support to people who have been through a traumatic event. The main focus of the support is on people who have fallen victim to a crime, experienced violence, negligence or other forms of ill-treatment or inhumane treatment. Local victim support workers are often also involved when it comes to police challenges and psychosocial crisis assistance is needed. At the same time, the level of provision of psychosocial crisis assistance varies from region to region, which, of course, is also due to the different backgrounds of the existing workforce, from different experiences in providing support. In the case of complex events, complex situations, it is precisely the more experienced victim support workers and trauma therapists who are able to support the victims in the best way, who are also involved in the follow-up. However, the process of their involvement is not consistent and is not always clear. It is often a case-by-case approach, and the burden of responding to complex events mostly falls to quite a few specialists, the most experienced, the most competent. The organisation of psychosocial crisis assistance in emergency situations is a four-pronged process on which victim support development is based from 2019 to 2022. Firstly, the management and coordination of psychosocial crisis assistance; secondly, immediate psychosocial crisis assistance; thirdly, support for continuation and trauma therapy, to which the heirs also referred, and fourthly, support for psychosocial assistance providers. In the event of a major accident, victim assistance will be triggered by the management and coordination of psychosocial crisis assistance according to the nature of the particular event and the specific characteristics of the region. As a rule, the main crisis relief coordination team leader is the victim assistance district leader. In addition, there is a substitute coordinator in each region. And for all of this, instruments are being created to respond to crisis events. Information materials, instructions, worksheets included in the "toolbox" must be available, transport to the scene etc. must be provided if necessary. The objective is that this readiness should be achieved by the end of 2019. Work organisation on the 4+4 principle of victim assistance at the Social Insurance Board will be developed. Each head of the region shall be responsible for crisis response and shall also be assigned a replacement to ensure that exchanges are prepared. This is to be achieved in the beginning of 2020. A pilot project and exercises will also be carried out, involving other bodies to identify the bottlenecks and performance of the system. This will help you to be better prepared for future situations. Involvement in the schools started already this autumn. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to As far as immediate psychosocial crisis assistance is concerned, major accidents involving direct and indirect victims are mostly planned to respond as a crisis team. The size of the team depends on the scale of the event, helpers are victim support workers, volunteers and trained specialists from other institutions. By the end of 2019, 30 people have been trained to provide immediate psychosocial crisis assistance in victim support. This figure is relatively low, but in a year's time, these people should be around 140 thanks to the involvement of volunteers and other institutions. So this number should get closer to five times. To achieve this, training in psychosocial crisis relief will be carried out for victim support and other employees of the Social Insurance Board who are potential members of the crisis team. The first courses will be held this autumn. Networks and partners in the region contributing to the psychosocial crisis response system will also be mapped out to identify their potential needs and perceptions of the functioning of the system, seeking a common understanding of the future system. The mapping will start in the autumn of this year in Harju County and the whole of Estonia will be covered in early 2020. At the same time, a voluntary network will be launched. It includes specialists dealing with traumatic people as well as other competent people as needed. Examples include social media administrators, communication professionals. There will also be a long-term training plan for both psychosocial crisis relief providers and the institutions involved, whose activities affect those affected by the crisis, as well as volunteers. The aim is to complete the training plan by the end of 2019. In addition, as has already been pointed out, there will be continuous support and traumatic relief. Victim support workers and crisis hotline will, where appropriate, be contacted with victims to identify the possibilities and needs for further assistance. Under the Victim Assistance Act, some groups of victims have the right to receive such assigned assistance free of charge. For example, victims of terrorism or those directly affected by an offence have this right. Existing services and opportunities for their use will be mapped out and a quality follow-up system will be set up, all necessary follow-up services will be listed, their funding and quality requirements. The deadline is the first half of 2020. In addition, the aim is to create a network of actors, currently operating in smaller groups, in order to reach common understanding on how to improve cooperation in psychosocial crisis assistance. The deadline is also the first half of 2020. I have reached the fourth point, support for psychosocial aid providers. The main role here is for crisis relief team leaders, who will gain the necessary skills during training. Individual and group privileges shall be used as an external service. As a competence centre, other institutions will be supported to ensure better visibility of the need for assistance and the building up of support systems. To this end, a competence centre will be set up at the Social Insurance Board, as previously indicated, which will focus on today's best knowledge of psychosocial crisis assistance. This is precisely the result of bringing together experts to reach common understanding of the nature and best organisation of psychosocial crisis assistance. On the one hand, this process is a continuous process, but the field is constantly evolving, knowledge is expanding, science is evolving, cooperation is improving, but networking is starting in the first half of 2020. So it doesn't make sense to offer a deadline here, it doesn't. As a competence centre, the Social Insurance Board advises other institutions so that their people's need for help is better noticed and support systems are built up. This competence should come into being in the first half of 2020, after which other authorities responsible for resolving crisis events will be constantly advised. At the same time, the SKA will ensure sustainability, in close cooperation with universities, particularly in areas where the provision of psychosocial crisis assistance is directly exposed. This deadline is the end of 2020. All the activities listed can be broadly summarised in three strategic directions. Firstly, building the capacity of the Social Insurance Board; secondly, leading a strong network; and thirdly, ensuring the sustainability of the sector. As a result, the Social Insurance Board will become a competence centre for psychosocial crisis assistance. This means for us, on the one hand, a leading role in the management of psychosocial crisis assistance in crisis situations, and, on the other hand, a pooling and sharing of competences in this area. Under the management of the Social Insurance Institution, effective and coordinated follow-up to psychosocial crisis assistance is ensured both in emergencies and in seriously traumatic events in smaller communities. As a result, well-functioning cooperation agreements exist between different institutions, the long-term, needs-based and knowledge-based psychosocial support provided to people who have been through the crisis. So this is the end result of this development. It also asked how much the state will spend in order to carry out the relevant development work this year and next year. I'll give you those numbers. The pure development of the psychosocial crisis relief system in the state budget for the 2019-2022 period is EUR 60000 each year, with a total of EUR 240000. In addition, EUR 145000 is an example of this year's service specifically for psychosocial crisis management. EUR 60000 per year is purely a support for the creation of this system. Speaking of victim support as a whole, I will also say this number: victim assistance as a whole, together with the prevention of violence, the services provided by the Women's Support Centre, will receive some EUR 2.5 million. Last year this amount was EUR 2.1 million. This planned resource, this EUR 60000, will enable the provision of psychosocial crisis assistance, to ensure the knowledge and skills of victim support specialists and volunteers, and to manage such crisis assistance and provide immediate first aid. However, it does not include budget expenditure in response to the crisis. In any case, emergency response means the involvement of additional specialists in crisis teams, depending on their scope, and this is an unpredictable volume. I mean, in order to respond to an emergency, victim assistance will certainly require additional emergency funding on a case-by-case basis. In addition, the expectations of providing psychosocial crisis assistance, including victim support, are gradually increasing and therefore the victim support system as a whole also needs additional resources. In 2018, the number of victim assistance cases increased by 19%, in the second half of the year even by 38. I'm about to run out of time, but I'd be happy to answer some specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U20	Thank you. There are also questions for the Minister. Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U21	I thank you very much for this review, and I am pleased that developments are taking place and that plans are being made. But I have a very specific question that you have linked the activities of the Departments of Psychological Crisis Assistance and Victim Assistance to the emergency situation declared under the Emergency Act for the involvement of additional specialists in crisis management. Or did I misunderstand? In fact, there are other situations, which are not, in fact, specific situations, I am not going to read out the whole definition, but situations that threaten the life or health of many people are causing serious material damage, serious damage to the environment or really extensive disruptions to the continuity of vital services, etc. We may have events with local effects. It is not good to recall these bad examples, but what happened at Haapsalu orphanage, for example. Yeah, there was a lot of casualties, there was a lot of pain and trauma, but it wasn't an emergency reported under the Emergency Act. How can these situations be covered? Sorry I crossed over!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U22	Yes, as I was referring to, one thing really is major accidents and other situations that fall under the concept of population protection. It has been adopted in 2018. All of these other situations must be approached on a case-by-case basis. It is certainly not meant to be the case that an emergency needs to be declared so that emergency assistance can be provided. Rather, I linked it to the victim support work because victim assistance has been precisely the area of work of the Social Insurance Board unit, where it was decided to create the ability to manage and coordinate psychosocial crisis assistance. Surely they are not one to one so that it is as if an emergency announcement were a prerequisite for triggering this assistance. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U23	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The crisis is known to be a real risk. And psychosocial crisis assistance is an extremely important area of professionalism. Your responses showed that crisis assistance preparedness is being addressed and that it is being quite seriously addressed. But I do come for a moment, instead of the consequences, to the causes, to the prevention of risks. As Minister of Social Affairs, can you now highlight some issues or areas where you personally feel that it is possible to prevent risks effectively? Maybe it takes a little more preparation, but still?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U25	Possible risk prevention? Yes, thank you for your question. In itself, risk prevention is a kind of work for which everyone has to work all the time, both the state, ministries and local authorities. I agree very much with your colleague that I do not want to take these negative situations as an example, but of course these are the same cases that we need to learn from. It is the preparedness of different agencies, public authorities for crises, ensuring their performance in hospitals, for example, but in fact also more broadly. As always, we often focus on problems more forcefully, more actively when they occur somewhere. It is human in some ways, but in some ways it is always regrettable in the country's view. As far as my sector is concerned, particularly the social protection sector, these issues, i.e. the question of ensuring the most effective, such as water, first aid and also the provision of specialist medical care, have long been addressed. It's been dealt with for a long time. The truth is, the need for money is high. The Health Board has pointed out that hospitals in the hospital network lack an amount of EUR 21 million in order to ensure the functioning of the regulation. We are talking, in particular, about the acquisition of generators, the provision of different connections and independent water capacity. Well, these are all preventive measures, aren't they? We all hope that the generators will not be needed, that there will be no other difficult situations, but we can see that from time to time in real life it does happen. In fact, we should perhaps expand this issue. Today there are a great many entities that are not included under laws and even regulations, without the involvement of organisations. I am thinking, for example, of nursing homes, where it really depends purely on the owner's own decisions and possibilities, often also on the geographical location of the ability to cope independently in different situations. There may be hundreds of people in the nursing home and, of course, in some situations in the middle of the cold winter, such as during major blackouts, the danger to human life may be extremely high. I guess this is once again a reaction in our view, but now that we have this concrete example of what happened in South Estonia, in this light, we have started to think about the need to map the actual state of preparedness in cooperation with the Social Insurance Board. And this is not only in hospital network development plan hospitals so far, but also in various social protection units, nursing homes, special care units. We need to know how they can cope in different situations. The aim is that we do not have a crisis that affects any people, for example, because of a blackout or a failure of other energy sources.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U26	Thank you. Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about volunteering. This is actually a very good initiative to involve volunteers. Now, let me get this straight. Is there a plan to train volunteers in a year to increase their competence? Do you think that the competence of these volunteers to provide assistance in crisis situations cannot be questioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U28	I think that's a very good question! As I was referring to, 30 people have been trained now. The aim is to get about 140 helpers, with the involvement of both volunteers and other institutions, I also mean state and local authorities. It is clear that more people are able to provide more support, more services, but the other way round is also clear that it is very clear that what kind of person can offer one level of training or another. It is also clear that when we talk about professionals, people who have been studying for a long time, people who have experience and volunteers on the other hand, their roles can certainly be very different. And it really has to be mapped out before difficult situations arise in which people can be used. Right now, we may be overburdened by specialists. And since the number of these people is limited, expanding this circle is one goal. And the second objective of training in parallel: not only would the number of helpers increase, but it would also increase the proportion of those with greater experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U29	Thank you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Thank you very much for the thorough answers you have given to today's review of your inquiry. My question partly relates to the additional question of my colleague, Signe Riisalo. When you answered the question, you used the word'major accident'. But an accident can also be very great for a single family, even tragic, immeasurable. I don't want to give bad examples either, but we all remember the children lost because of the whiny death and the need to help their parents, just like the garage door that sank on one of the kids and the baby died. How will this help really be in practice? When the ambulance arrives, does he call it? And the shocked people who were at the accident, or the very close people who died, apparently, may at first respond no to the offer of help. Will they be contacted later? And who is the person with whom to discuss such matters? If this system is being developed now, perhaps people who have been through something specifically themselves would also like to contribute. If they see what's wrong with this system, who could they contact? Is that Liina Kanter at the Ministry of Social Affairs, or is there someone else you can contact?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U31	Thank you again for a very good question. On the one hand, I agree well that we must look at all cases. Human life is priceless. People react differently in difficult situations, but no one's concern and need for help must ever be underestimated. It must never be said that this is simply a regional concern, or it is now a small question. It's so subjective and so different. Everyone must receive as much help as the country can offer. As I referred to earlier, the right person to specify the cooperation between the various institutions, including the ambulance, is Jako Salla, Head of the Victim Assistance Department in cases of crisis at the Social Insurance Board. If there's any interest, I can give you his contacts later or be a mediator. As far as the observation of an ambulance is concerned, it is certainly important to consider whether this involvement will also take place in these working groups. I'm pretty sure the ambulance's gonna do it, but that knowledge should be certain and the thing fixed somewhere. As you rightly pointed out, the first person does not know whether or not he wants this service. He might say no at first. Follow-up work in this case should also be known. I'm gonna write that down. Indeed, how to explain or check afterwards whether the first human response was adequate. At a particular moment, man's concern is enormous and the focus is really elsewhere; the real need for help may arise later and may not be less. I'm gonna write that down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U32	Thank you. A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U33	Thank you. I'm gonna keep doing the same thing. I myself had this particular case this spring, and then I worked at the palliative treatment centre of the North Estonian Regional Hospital. Saturday night, the guard doctor of the PERH ER called me and described a tragic incident where, in front of parents' eyes, a three - year - old child was between the garden gates and later died on the operating table. And the only person the E.M.O. doctor could call was me, but unfortunately, I'm not qualified to give help in this situation either. They'd called the psychiatric clinic, and they gave me the emergency phone number, but unfortunately that phone was on the fax. So even an employee of such a large hospital cannot find help, do not know how to help a person who is in a real crisis situation. Are we thinking about that, too? Does the Ministry have any plans for helping individuals in such situations, even on weekends?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U34	First of all, it's very unfortunate that this happened. Understandably, this is a situation where every person hopes that he will never end up. As for not having enough information or not knowing where to turn, I'm gonna have to check it out a little bit. The emergency phone should work, as far as I know. This 116006 should be accessible to everyone, regardless of which authority or where the concern or signal comes from. It should be accessible to all of us. But if there's a question of where to put the person in need, the right person to call should be the same head of department. Probably that number wasn't at hand in that particular department. Unfortunately, I can't comment on what this help was behind at the time, because the emergency phone, the victim support phone, should be working. I can't tell you if this call was useless because it had already been received, or if it was available at any time of the day and it was no longer available at night. Unfortunately, I don't know the details. But I'm gonna write down that note.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U35	Thank you. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U36	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I will return to the subject of volunteers. What is the plan to involve these volunteers? Do you expect people themselves to show their activity and report that they want to be volunteers, or are they planning to send 'targeted invitations', i.e. ask people if they would be willing to play such a role as a helper? And are there any expectations that these people could come from areas of experience or activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U37	Thank you again for the good questions. This voluntary network is already working somewhat. There are people who have contributed either on a case-by-case basis or on a region-by-region basis. However, as has been said, this network of professionals is not very large throughout Estonia. Of course, any assistance is expected, I imagine, but it is clear that a professional education or, at least, an education limited to it, or any other contact with the social or health sector will certainly be useful. And, of course, the personal qualities of the helpers, namely empathy, communication skills, etc., are important. They will certainly be thoroughly assessed at the Social Insurance Board. A person who goes to help someone else must certainly be able not only to remain calm in a crisis situation, but to react professionally, supportively, competently. It certainly cannot be the case that every person who simply wants to be registered and directed to training. There's still control here, and that's actually what we're talking about, is that we want to increase the number of aides from 30 to 140. We are not talking about thousands, we are not talking about tens of thousands, we are talking about a small number on the Estonian scale, but this assumes that only people with suitable personal characteristics will undergo training.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U38	Thank you. Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U39	Thank you, too, for your very thorough answers. I'm still going back to this volunteer question for a second. Who specifically teaches them? This certainly is not a learning cycle, it is a continuous learning. In other parts of the world, it is also part of the study of disaster medicine. Who exactly is doing this? And another thing: the availability of all of this aid, the same telephone numbers that were not known or found, should still be guaranteed 7/24 if we want to call it potential aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U40	I really am somewhat puzzled by what happened in this particular case. I am thinking of the end of your question and the question of Mrs Vilja Toomas. The number 116006 should be the corresponding number 24/7. Therefore, the question arises as to whether the number to which the call was made was wrong. Why would it be switched to fax mode? In principle, it should be the victim assistance number, which should be supplemented by the crisis assistance side. This is not a new number, it is a number that should be able to be used with a broader bottom than before when calling. In a broad sense, that might be an explanation. But it's really weird that this happened. I need to clarify if it really was this particular number. As regards the first part of your question, training, this work is primarily coordinated by the Social Insurance Board. Different training courses will be carried out for both their employees and volunteers. For the training staff, I know that this autumn the first training will be carried out by Nathan Haamer. But if you want more detailed information about the entire network of trainers, I need to clarify whether the specific partners are all in place for four years and whether they are different depending on the region. I can specify that if you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U41	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Would you like to negotiate? The parties to the inquiry do not have an inquiry. Thank you. It is also my job to ask the Minister that, although there are four of the 19 heirs left in the Chamber, do you want to say any further lines? No, I don't. Thank you. Then I'll close the negotiations. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U42	And now everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after a hammer hit. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U43	Good President and few colleagues. There's nothing I can say about this day. A good colleague, Katri Raik, is currently unfortunately not there, namely, a great idea has recently come up to the Riigikogu Research Committee to supervise the activities of the prosecutor's office. Whether he's tilted or not. In some cases a criminal case is initiated, others are closed or terminated quickly, in some cases nearly 40,000 pages of material are collected, more than the Nuremberg assassins' trial in criminal proceedings, or more than eight years or ten years of investigation of a case. A very important question today! We have a special security oversight committee, but they control the secret police and other police, etc., and the prosecutor's office is not covered by it. So, actually, it's a great idea. And I think we should support this idea. Let us remember many things. Until recently, Mary Kross' case was closed with an oportunity on the proposal of the prosecutor's office. He didn't become a criminal, he's gonna pay off 3,000, and it's clean. Or another thing: only recently has the former assistant mayor of Tartu, Artyom Suvorov, concluded a relatively sad ending for the prosecutor's office. The secret police provocator kept bothering him in his office with a bottle of cognac. Several cases have shown that there is no villa on this case. But let us look further: remember, there was a gentleman like Burkhardt who allegedly offered a million euros of bribes to the Reform Party. You remember Silvergate, again in funding the Reform Party. There are many, many, many stories. Or, for example, the former assistant mayor of Tartu, Semilarski or Kajar Lember, whose case is also very thick, or Aivar Soop, Kaur Kender, Valeri Panov, Johannes Leas, to name very few names. The list is very, very long. The questions of whether some are under so-called enthusiastic investigation, others being blindfolded, continue. Igor Gräzin, a former colleague, is four years ago when the current Attorney General was put in office, and the author was the then Social Democrat Minister, Anvelt, said this: 'The Estonian Prosecutor's Office is an inquisitionary political intelligence body. ' That was the then ambassador of the Reform Party, a good colleague of Igor Gräzin. And then there was a story about why there was only one candidate for the Attorney General's office. The story was about Lavly Perlingus. And then there was both the Reform Party and the Centre Party, and many others opposed it. But that's it. So, in fact, we should do this special committee or committee of inquiry and get answers on whether or not there is some kind of political bias. After all, it would be very healing for the entire Estonian political system to get rid of the so-called stables' manure. If there is no tilt, then there is not. After that, there's no way to point a finger at anyone. And the best thing would be to scrape out the stables first and then put a new Attorney General in office, but it's too blue-eyed, and it'll take too much time, so that's what we're gonna have to give up. Perhaps we must also abandon the Committee of Inquiry, but only because we already have a special committee on the supervision of security agencies. Except they, as I said, control the police and the police, but not the DA's office. We don't have any committees to check the prosecutor's office. So a great idea, my good colleague Katri Raik! I'm sorry you're not in this room, and I'm sorry you haven't moved on. In any case, I and many of my colleagues support this. Let's get to the end of this and see what's really under the blanket! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-11_U44	Thank you. Looks like there's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 15.57 p.m.
