ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the session of the first working week of the IXth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask not to be surprised that someone is still handing over the drafts in the Riigikogu. The day before yesterday we discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Proposaling the Government of the Republic to use euro grants more efficiently and regionally balanced." It is recalled that such a draft must receive the support of 51 ambassadors for adoption as a decision. Unfortunately, this did not happen, many of the ambassadors did not make it to the Chamber and there were too few votes in favour. Things changed considerably during yesterday's day. In fact, the Social Democratic Party Group has decided to support this approach in order for Estonia to apply for an exemption so that the socio-economically less developed regions can receive European Union subsidies with less ownership for the next budget periods. The Government of the Republic must decide this quickly. Not only did the Minister for Rural Affairs, in answering my question here yesterday, express essentially the same view. So I think it is possible for the Riigikogu to take a break, to appoint a commission, and the Riigikogu will be able to publish its clearly established spirit before 1 February, and the government will be able to make a useful decision and request for derogation for Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U3	No one wants to hand over any more drafts or inquiries. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft decision. The Management Board decides on this further procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Checking for presence. 70 members of the Riigikogu are present, 31 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, We will go to the agenda on Thursday, 17 January. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the building code initiated by Riigikogu members Andres Metsoja, Tanel Talve, Erki Savisaare, Urve Palo, Toomas Pauri, Märt Sults, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Toomas Väinaste, Barbi Pilvre, Hardi Volmeri, Hannes Hanso, Jaanus Marrandi, Heljo Pikhofi, Toomas Jürgenstein, Valeri Korbi, Peeter Ernitsa, Tarmo Kruusimäe, Krista Aru, Külmiki Kübarsse, Marko Pomerantsi and Raivo Aegi. Mr. Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission for the Chair, please present.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Riigikogu gave this draft law to the procedure m. a on September 27, 2004. The draft was passed at first reading in Riigikogu plenary on 16 October and the first reading was closed. The objective of the draft is to reduce red tape to facilitate the deployment of a high-speed electronic communications network and to extend the specific regulation of the Building Code to the infrastructure of the state border in the area of government of the Ministry of Interior, including the border strip, to the defence land. The Economic Commission discussed draft law amending the Construction Code 703 at its meeting m. a on 18 December and including 14 January. During the meeting, the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and procedural decisions were taken. The meeting was attended by Deputy Chancellor Jüri Rass of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Ivo Jaanisoo, Director of Construction and Housing Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Ülle Reid, Chief Specialist, and Janek Mägi, Head of the Border Guard Policy Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Ms Rene Tamm, Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, also attended the meeting on 14 January. During the first and second reading of the draft, written opinions and proposals were submitted to the Economic Commission by the Estonian Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, the Estonian Society of Electrical Industries, the Estonian Association of Cities and Municipalities, the Estonian Society of Information Technology and Telecommunications, Telia Eesti AS and the joint address Elektrilevi OÜ, Elisa Eesti AS and AS STV. All opinions and suggestions submitted can be consulted on the Riigikogu website. The draft was sent to the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for technical and linguistic purposes, and the comments of the language editor are included in the text of the draft. The deadline for submitting amendments is 30 October m. A group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia tabled amendments. Amendments were also submitted to the Steering Committee by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of the Interior and the Technical Surveillance Authority, including the Consumer Protection and Technical Surveillance Authority from 1 January. The Commission decided on the amendments by vote and they were included in the list of amendments, with a total of eight amendments. The first amendment was proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs itself and deletes the term 'passive broadband infrastructure' from the draft. The second amendment, as well as the third amendment, was proposed by the Ministry of the Interior and specifies in which area of the Ministry of the Interior the new restrictions or clarifications apply. The fourth amendment was tabled by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party with the aim of replacing the word'state border' in the text with 'temporary check line', but it was disregarded in the light of the explanations provided by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, according to which the temporary check line on state border is applicable pursuant to § 22 (2) of the State border Act. The fifth amendment is also from the Ministry of the Interior and will specify the construction in the vicinity of the state border. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and it talks about how the construction of the communication cable will proceed in the future. It was decided to use a construction notice in the future instead of a valid building permit, thereby reducing red tape. This is a compromise proposal that was finally suitable for all parties involved. The seventh amendment, proposed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, complements the sub-section of the National Defence and Security Authority's Facility of the Annexes to the Construction Code with the section of the State Border Infrastructure. The eighth amendment amends the entry into force provisions. The Governing Commission adopted a decision to bring this draft to this large Chamber today, to propose that the second reading be completed and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading on 23 January and to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U6	Thank you, dear waitress Erki Savisaar. No questions for you. I open negotiations, close negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The second amendment is presented by the Economic Commission and the position of the lead committee is also fully taken into account. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia; the position of the commission is not taken into account. According to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 703. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U7	We are going to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on traffic initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs, 752. Mr Hardi Volmer, member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Chair, please report.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U8	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable colleagues! First of all, for the introduction to what this is all about. The initiation of this draft, which concerns the amendment of the Traffic Act, is based on the desire to allow the introduction of mobile traffic cameras. The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee received a proposal to this effect from the Ministry of the Interior, wishing to supplement the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act 673 with this amendment. As the scope of the draft 673 is not related to amendments to the Traffic Act, the Legal Affairs Committee discussed the initiation of the draft Act amending § 199 of the Traffic Act at its meeting on 12 November. The draft was initiated in a consensual manner, and explanations attached to the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior have been used in drawing up the draft and explanatory memorandum. The current terms of regulation of traffic cameras have so far not enabled the introduction of mobile speed cameras. Although I personally believe that there may be some kind of legal or terminological contradiction here, because of the two versions of speed cameras that we currently have, there is one so-called hand camera that we have all seen along the road. They are usually kept in police uniform by a specialist in front of his face, and the mob calls them fondly hair dryers. After all, by their very nature, they are also portable or portable. But that's it. Paragraphs 2 to 5 of the same section provide for the possibility of using only fixed devices for the purpose of the regulation of automatic traffic control systems, or speed cameras. Today, this is particularly the case because the speed camera system and the provisions relating to it were created, given the technological means at that time. At present, however, mobile speed cameras can be integrated into the existing fixed speed cameras system. A majority of votes in favour is required for the adoption of the draft as a law. The purpose of the law. At the moment, two speed measurement solutions can be used in Estonia: hand camera measurement and stationary camera measurement. The possibility of using a mobile speed camera does not change the current legal order, i.e. the effect on the person remains the same, but it allows the traffic supervisor to influence a significantly larger number of persons even in areas where this was not possible in the past. The advantage of measuring with a mobile speed camera over other speed measurement options shall be expressed in particular in places where fixed electricity is not available at reasonable cost, on high-speed two- or three-way roads and in places where vehicle suspension is not possible. The purpose of the installation of speed cameras is to calm traffic and thereby reduce the number of accidents. Cameras control speeders and help to speed within the limits permitted by dangerous sections of the road. Traffic is expected to become safer and the number of road accidents will decrease, which means cameras will have a proactive and disciplineal effect. International experience shows that speed cameras help to make traffic safer. In order to introduce mobile speed cameras, the wording of § 199 (2) (5) of the Traffic Act is amended and the sentence "stationary automatic traffic surveillance system' is replaced by the sentence "automatic traffic surveillance system'. The word'stationary' disappears. In addition, in § 199 (2), the word "permanently installed' is replaced by "installed stationary or mobile'. The amendment allows the introduction of mobile speed cameras which will be used in the same way as fixed speed cameras. The data of traffic offenders captured by mobile speed cameras shall first be transmitted to the database of the Estonian Road Administration's automated traffic monitoring system, to which the data of stationary speed cameras shall also be transmitted. As in the case of a functioning system, data will be sent from there to the police database and, if traffic offences are to be dealt with, the possibilities already available will be used. In the face of physical surveillance and stationary speed cameras, mobile speed cameras have a certain advantage because they can be installed in places where the number of speeders is high but it is difficult to measure speed normally and stop vehicles. The mobile system is not linked to a fixed location, allowing monitoring on city streets and side roads. Test measurements have also been carried out on mobile speed cameras. For example, in September 2015, the Road Administration carried out a test measurement on the Pirita road at midday, measuring 478 vehicles at speed, with 94% of drivers above speed and 36% above speed over 10 kilometres per hour. In addition to the fact that the mobile system is not linked to a fixed location, the introduction of mobile speed cameras will enable a larger number of road users with the same monitoring resources to be affected. The working time of the Police and Border Guard Board in 2017 was approximately 370000 hours, of which 37% were used to control compliance with the limit speed. The introduction of mobile speed cameras would allow more efficient use of working time. It would also increase the likelihood that the maximum speed will continue to be met on the most dangerous sections of the road where mobile speed cameras have been used in the past. Therefore, the proposed amendment will have a significant impact on road safety. The Police and Border Guard Board is currently in the process of obtaining mobile speed cameras, but new cameras could reasonably be introduced in the first quarter of this year. The draft amends the wording of subsections 2 to 5 of § 199 of the Traffic Act and the sentence "stationary automatic traffic control system' is replaced by the sentence "automatic traffic control system' as stated above, and in paragraph 2 the word "permanently installed' is replaced by the text "installed stationary or mobile'. The same paragraphs 2 to 5 shall be worded as follows: 'Authorised traffic surveillance system database is a database established by the Minister responsible for the sector, which processes traffic offences collected by means of stationary or mobile traffic surveillance systems installed on local roads and national roads in order to ensure effective traffic surveillance. The data included in the automated traffic surveillance system database has legal meaning. The controller of the automated traffic surveillance system database is the Road Administration. The basic regulation for the maintenance of a database of automated road surveillance systems shall be established by regulation of the Minister responsible for the field. ' Compliance of the draft with European Union law. The issues covered by the draft act do not fall within the scope of European Union law. The expected effects of the law have already been described. Perhaps I should mention that the Road Administration also carried out tests on the use of mobile speed cams. The results showed that the use of mobile speed cams significantly reduced the average speed on the corresponding section of the road compared to what was shown by previous control measurements on the same section of the road. The study suggests that, if the measuring point for mobile speed cameras is pre-defined and the measuring device or measuring car is visible, the effect on traffic flow rate reduction is on average equivalent to that of stationary speed cameras, i.e. the speed is below the permissible speed limit. Implementing acts. The introduction of mobile cameras will require a later amendment of two implementing acts. Entry into force of the law. The draft is intended to enter into force as a law in general terms. This draft was initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs on 13 November last year. May I still report the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Protocol number 201. The meeting took place on Monday, 12 November last year, chaired by Jaanus Kariliid, in the minutes of Tiina Kärsna. Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus, Vilja Toomast, Carina Rikart as advisor, Linnar Liivamägi as adviser and secretary to Raini Laid. There was no Mati Raidma and Olga Ivanova. Of course, Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior at the time, Mr Veiko Kombusaar, Head of the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy, and Mr Kristen Kanarik, Adviser to the Minister of the Interior, were invited. Minister Anvelt proposed that the Committee on Legal Affairs initiate a draft law amending the Traffic Act, which would provide the basis for the introduction of mobile traffic cameras. Everything that follows that the Minister has proposed has already been dealt with here. Perhaps it is interesting that the draft is prepared at the Ministry, that the procurement for the acquisition of cameras is underway. If the draft is initiated by the Commission, as it is in this case, it will save time. We're gonna get eight cameras. Each precinct would get two cameras for now. According to the Minister, stationary speed cameras are currently on the main roads, but their lifetime is running out and therefore different technical solutions need to be considered. Jaanus Karilaid wanted to know if the Ministry had any information about the impact of speed cameras on road users' behaviour. Anvelt confirmed that during the summer, when the number of police patrols on the road was increased, the number of road accidents was also significantly reduced, i.e. the impact of the cameras is preventive. Jaanus Karilaid asked whether there must be signs on the roads indicating traffic cameras, in addition to which Veiko Kombusaar explained that according to the rules in force, the corresponding mark must be in the speed cam measurement zone, even in the case of mobile cameras, but in the future it will be necessary to discuss how this requirement should be met if the speed is to be measured automatically by police vehicles without the police officer intervening. Külliki Kübarsepp stated that in the present case it is up to the Ministry of the Interior to propose an amendment to initiate the draft in the framework of 673 or as a separate draft. He asked whether the Ministry did not know before the initiation of draft 673, which was carried out on 22 August 2018, that the new year was intended to introduce mobile traffic cameras. Veiko Kombusaar explained that the Government of the Republic found a way to allocate money for mobile traffic cameras in the last quarter of this year. To make the most of this money, one of the options was to propose an amendment to the above-mentioned draft 673, which is likely to be adopted by Parliament this year. Küllik's Hatter found that the preparation of the legal space could have started earlier. The Communist Party explained that the Ministry of the Interior has proposed this to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which is preparing amendments to the Traffic Act. We don't know when this bill's gonna be ready yet. These changes, however, have been discussed at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, or rather at the Road Administration. Raivo Time said that the speed limit set on some sections of the road seems unreasonable. If you put a stationary speed camera on this section of the road, it's frustrating for road users. In his opinion, the police should not be tempted to speed up such a passage. He gave an example of a new road surface, but not yet marked, where a speed limit of 70 kilometres per hour has been set, and which goes bumpy and already with invisible markings, a road that can travel at a normal rate of 90 kilometres per hour. Minister Anvelt replied that on local roads the local authority would determine the speed limit. If the speed limit set is not respected, it will lead to a dangerous traffic situation. The Minister pointed out that accidents occur on the side roads more than on the main routes. The communist said that tests suggest that the speed of the road users fell in those areas where mobile speed cameras were used. He also stressed that speed cameras would not be installed where profits were most needed, but where speeds were higher and where traffic accidents were more frequent. Raivo Time hoped that this would be the case and the police wouldn't start measuring speed in hidden places again. Veiko Kombusaar pointed out that speed measurement was one measure in shaping the behaviour of traffic behaviour. Raivo Time agreed that speed should be measured in places with a speed limit of 90 kilometres per hour and where road users have developed a sense of impunity. Rather, it does not support the measurement of speed in a situation where some temporary or abnormal situation is exploited, with the aim of increasing the statistical indicator of speeders, i.e. it is important to ensure that speed is measured where it is actually needed. Veiko Kombusar confirmed that they have an analysis of the software to be used in such a case, and also confirmed that the number of procedures is in a downward trend and that people are rather being explained things instead of being punished. Karilaid proposed the initiation of a draft law amending the Road Traffic Act and also proposed that Hardi Volmer be able to hand it over to the plenary. Hardi Volmer, see, agreed. The decision to initiate the draft was taken by consensus in the presence of the citizens listed above. The bill has been accompanied by some comments and suggestions from the Ministry of Justice, but I think whoever is interested will find them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U9	Good waitress, thank you very much for your very thorough presentation. However, there are also questions for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! It was a nice presentation, just who was there and what he said, but let's talk about it. At the meeting of the Economic Commission, I asked for answers to a number of questions, but to this day neither you nor the Ministry have answered me. § 199 of the Traffic Act is one of the most profitable sections in the Republic of Estonia. My question was how much will one camera bring into the state budget, and the other question was how much will the tripods that are going to move increase the state budget. Finally, I ask for an answer to this question. It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U11	Thank you for your question. I'll be honest with you, it's a little bit, let's say, hypothetical numbers. I still haven't seen those numbers. I can say that this whole system is not expected to be a very significant burden on the state budget. These gadgets are relatively reasonable at a price, especially when it comes to tripod, the camera is probably more expensive. Since this system does not require the constant presence of a specialist, or usually a person in a police uniform, and knowing our general cultural background, it is quite possible that in order to protect this easy-to-move expensive hardware, I imagine, maybe a security camera should be included, which keeps recording that no citizen will take any interest after that hardware.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U12	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I will further develop Mr Ernits's question. The point of the question was, as I understand it, that in this year's state budget, even 20% of the fine money has been planned to increase. What, then, is the part of the so-called draft, i.e. how much fine money has been planned in connection with the acquisition and regularisation of mobile speed cameras?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U14	Thank you for your question. I imagine that maybe the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior has done some sort of brief calculations using facts from recent history that are expressed in numbers. They may have made some adjustments. I owe you an answer here. I can't say these figures by heart, because inevitably they're hypothetical, they're hypothetical either way. It's possible that when I start going through here, I don't think I'm gonna find them in this explanatory statement... [[Browse papers.]] I don't recall seeing an analysis expressed in numbers. Although, hypothetically, there is no art to deduce what it might be.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U15	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U16	Thank you. I have heard a lot of things about this when I meet the voters. One distinguishing example is that there's a speed measurement sign up there that a speed camera will come in some time. I mean, there's this hidden camera on the three-legged bush, and then the speed is measured secretly, some kind of 800 to 900 meters earlier, before the speed cam comes, and when you're at the speed cam, more or less exactly in that dimension, just as there is, 90, 70, 60 or 50 kilometers, but then you get a computer picture and they say, so, mark the area where the warning sign is that the speed cam was coming, your speed cam was 96 kilometers per hour. And it's 5, 6, 7 to 12 euros fine taken from a person. What do you think of that? Is it fair, or is it not fair, but a small contraband?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U17	Thanks for asking. I take the liberty of expressing my personal opinion. It makes perfect sense and, of course, it is in breach of the law in force under the law of traffic. Clearly, a person is obliged to comply with the speed limit indicated on the sign from the moment he or she physically sees it. The speed reduction will take a hell of a lot of time, depending on the speed at which he enters the area. So, yes, of course, I have even witnessed some of the situations you described, but in counties generally, speed checks are carried out by local authorities, and I think that their attitude is sometimes different from country to country. What's there to deny, it brings in. It is no secret that, at times, a law-abiding ordinary citizen may also seem or get the impression that the municipality is trying to make 'arms' on him, in a polite way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U18	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U19	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a very specific question that relates to the question of the previous questioner. Do these mobile cameras, however, continue to be installed only in the area of the automatic control marks 559a and 559b, which refer to the automatic enforcement of traffic, or are there changes to this plan and can later be placed anywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U20	Thanks for asking. I guess my report didn't include that part. Yes, there is indeed a possibility that, along with this'mobile camera', a mark that must be installed in the direction of traffic, in accordance with the law, will move forward, at a certain distance from that camera. That same portable mobile sign is attached to it, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U22	Good manager! Good waitress! Unfortunately, Hard didn't understand my simple question of how much money comes from cameras in the country. I didn't ask how much it would cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U23	No, no, sorry, Peter, your second question was...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U24	I'm getting to the second question now. The second question is that, since the police take 1,000 hours of traffic surveillance a day and this 300 takes to measure the limit speed, and if only 10 speed cameras were enough to cover the entire 300 hours a day, how much meat and bone policemen spend on measuring the limit speed a day. Answer that other question. You could answer the first one.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U25	Thank you, Peter! You're setting me up again, I don't have a bill for you. It's like you're assuming I can tell you exactly the decimal bill here. I can't. If we take the entire territory of the country, how many police officers we have outside at some point in time, I'm gonna owe you an answer, yes, I don't know that exactly, even hypothetically. But I imagine that these average numbers or statistics are available. So I'm so sorry I'm not answering you. How much money does the country make on it, I don't know these percentages at the moment. I'm willing to find out that information for you, Peter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U26	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'll use your rhetoric. A colleague told me that a large part of the state budget is hypothetical, and we do not know exactly how much personal income tax or VAT will be collected, but we are still writing these very large numbers, billions, into the budget. But the most important part of the question is how we can take a stand on this draft if we do not know what the impact of this decision will be, both in terms of expenditure and revenue for the state budget. It is customary that the impact analysis of the draft still has a very important role to play in the way I shape my position. But how can I, as a member of the Riigikogu today, shape my position if I don't know how much it costs, and I have no idea how much revenue is planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U28	Thanks for asking. I'm forced to repeat again that I do not have the bill to present to you right now. The draft is at first reading. I think he will be furnished and equipped with numerous figures, both concrete and hypothetical. The only thing I can say to protect this change is that, as you know, these stationary "speed cameras" we've seen along the roads for years, which are in these metal lockers, are starting to grow old. It was also clearly stated in the report that they, like all kinds of technology, have their age. Their "official period of service" is likely to be over soon, and so perhaps a certain number of these types of control techniques will have to be replaced by some kind of traffic-recording cameras. These expenses will inevitably be obvious in the near future. So I'm still counting on your understanding, even though I didn't just fill my story with specific figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U29	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I believe you had a childish lingua when you told me that local authorities are involved in measuring speed. It doesn't matter, I'm gonna ask you that. What do you think affects traffic behaviour more than there are more regulations and controls or responsible behaviour of people? A less philosophical question with these monetary issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U31	Thanks for asking. First clue. Yes, I must admit that it was probably a matter of childhood, because, in fact, it is a nationwide administration of the Road Administration. The local government, I think, has a certain amount of money involved in acquiring them, as I know from my municipality, and has certain rights to simply install these cameras. But that's it. As far as this fine philosophical question is concerned, this, I imagine, would perhaps require some half-day debate. This includes our whole cultural background and, above all, our traffic culture, right? Traffic culture is an interesting phenomenon in that it is very physically visible. You know a man and you talk to him politely, smiling, but he goes to the wheel... All right, I'll give you an illustration. He goes to the wheel and suddenly turns into a beast. Why is all this happening and what's going on in our head when we're moving? Alongside some neighbouring countries and societies, it is quite clear that our traffic is, unfortunately, still quite wild, although, as statistics tell us, we are moving ragingly on the road to improvement. But the number of road accidents and road deaths is still drastic. In this sense, yes, of course, it would be a blessing, and it would be beautiful and lovely if we could enter into human consciousness by persuasion or by miraculous examples, that now be human and think of others, even think of yourself, and don't think about the fact that your car is fully insured by car insurance. Kasko doesn't guarantee your life or the lives of others. Of course, there is a series of sociopsychological lines that are very interesting to discuss, but let us save ourselves today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U32	Hannes Hanso, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U33	Thank you, Hardi, for a very interesting and thorough presentation. In your last reply, I think you started to focus a little bit on what's most important here. In my opinion, these were the first questions that focused (I do not understand why) on some kind of cost-benefit calculation, a completely misguided approach to this issue. We still have to talk about saving lives. If these cameras save even one life or two or three lives a year, then this project has certainly paid off. Do you think we are focusing on the right thing here in the context of the debate on costs and benefits? When we talk, I don't know, about fire safety, we talk about prevention so we can save lives, and we don't ask how much a gadget costs, but we make people put up these gadgets so they can survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U34	I couldn't agree more. That's the ultimate goal of the whole thing. The state, or people, should be happy to invest, at least optimally, as much as possible, in a system that would exhort and discipline people. There is nothing to do, yes, this measure is rather punitive, albeit punitive, but in the end, it is punitive. That's the way it is, you can't have a good word another time. A good example is my home village of Muraste, which happens to be the home village of former Minister Anvelt, we are the men of a village. One day a couple of years ago, this same stationary tin booth, this camera, came into existence. It was quite painful, he was before the big intersection. Coming from the city, I and my wife managed to get nine tickets before they came to consciousness and started recording the memory, so, now he's coming. It's pretty badgey. Then I kind of broke up Andres Anvelt with a joke, because it turned out that the camera was specifically set up there on his initiative. But look, it turns out I didn't know one thing. That camera's on the intersection like that. When coming from the village centre, school and store, you must cross the Rannamõisa road to get to Tallinn. There was a school child who had just died in traffic. It took away my ass in an instant.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U35	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U36	Thank you. I was motivated by your internal struggle with the Socialists, by the statement that if only one person is saved, then the result is already justified. I'm afraid that's not the case. Unfortunately, resources are always limited and we must discuss what are the most effective methods for the same money. I'm not against this bill, but I'm against that attitude that whatever it takes can do. I'm sorry, I can't do that. But I would just like to ask the Committee on Legal Affairs if there could be any way to hear such a report that you would not read a recording, putting it between 'in the word and expressed an opinion'. Is there any way that the essence of the bill can be described in a more concise and compact way so that the hall can listen to this report?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U37	Thank you. I understand your frustration because it is quite clear that even the most attentive person is unable to register too much of what we are actually talking about in such an enormous long description. I did do it with an honest face here, so that all those concerned could be read and mentioned nicely, and there was also what you, the honorable Ligi, asked me about. But let me get this straight. You'd like me to read it again as a short summary? You didn't, did you? I have it. I'm so sorry I bothered you, like I've done before, I know. But, yeah, he got a little long.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U38	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U39	Thank you. Dear waitress, This thorough presentation is certainly very good, although I would prefer a shorter and more concentrated one. But if that's the choice I've made, I don't mind. Only in this long report I missed or was not told why this draft was initiated by the Commission and not by the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U40	Thanks for asking. In fact, it was a glimpse, let's say, in the form of one sentence in this presentation, of this reason, as I understood it. It's completely black in white here. This measure, in order for it to take place through the Commission, would simply speed things up. These cameras would be bought and they'd get on our roads faster, this process would be shorter. That's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U41	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U43	Thank you. Since the waitress asked me, I have to answer. No, I don't want you to start the report again.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U44	I would like the Commission's reports to be less formal and more substantive, to deal with regulation, not with who was present and who said what, but with regulation, about what were the mums of disputes, what were the arguments and what were the answers, but not about who said, expressed an opinion, etc. And the question is, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U45	Ladies and gentlemen, I would point out that there is a round of questions from the floor to the rapporteur, not vice versa, point 1. A round of questions and answers is. It was actually a line. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U46	I'll try to get my mind into the form of the question. I don't know if it'll work. Of course, the Commission took the bull and wants to speed it up. That's a very noble thing to do. I am not against this bill at all. But how did the government, which has ruled for more than two years, suddenly have so little time that there was no time before to deal with such an important issue as people's lives? Was this also discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U47	Thank you for your question. I have to admit, I don't remember. A similar question that could have been raised in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where we presented this draft, why did it suddenly start so fast? But let's just say that this Homeland Department initiative comes from a year and a half, as I recall. I don't have the guts to give, but he hasn't come overnight. That was an interesting question as to whether it is known in the nearest countries, both south and north, with whom it is good to compare ourselves, whether there are similar cameras already in use. I guess it was also a hypothetical answer that it probably is, not exactly known, but at least they exist. It is also a technologically slightly more advanced option and is not expensive. So, for now, these cameras are only bought by eight.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U48	Dear waitress, Mr Hardi Volmer, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Please speak to Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U49	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on Tuesday, 18 December last year. Hardi Volmer and Veiko Kombusar, Head of the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, were invited to the debate as representatives of the initiators. After a brief presentation of the draft idea, which stressed that the aim was to change people's behaviour in traffic, there were only a few technical issues in the debate within the Commission, starting with the fact that, if mobile speed cameras are not allowed at the moment, how the testing of these cameras has taken place. We learned that such tests can be carried out freely in Estonian traffic, but so far no tickets have been issued based on the test results. It was also a question of whether these cameras should be within the scope of the warning sign or whether, before these cameras, there should be an automatic warning. We learned that yes, so it must be, and it is not only the good will of the police that these signs are there, but it is a legal obligation to put a corresponding warning before the speed cameras. We also learned about these cameras that they are not the cameras in the boxes, but the smaller and less visible cameras on the three-legged, which can also be installed by a "normal worker," the installer does not have to be a police officer. Perhaps the burden on police officers will be reduced and they will be able to deal with other, more important issues. Arto Aas held a different opinion on the issue of the warning sign and considered that such warning signs were not necessary at all, as traffic rules should still be observed at all times, not only in the vicinity of the speed camera. Nevertheless, it was decided by consensus that it would be proposed that the first reading of the draft be completed and that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 24 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U50	Thank you. Dear waitress Erki Savisaar, there are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Peeter Ernits with the mandate of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, as I understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It was a little embarrassing to listen to the story of a good colleague, Hard, and he squealed the text nicely, but he didn't talk about the content. We discussed this in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The questions I asked here, and unfortunately I didn't get an answer to and didn't get an answer from the Ministry, were simple. How much of the traffic law § 199 really brings us money or, to put it in rural language, the current 66 cameras and the eight that come up? I don't know. Time has passed, but there is no answer. However, I know that the new year is already in the state budget, plus 3.3 million fine money has been written in from those whose leg is heavy and whose activities are fixed by these 66 traffic cameras and the draft is scheduled for eight triple feet that will be moved. Is this acceptable at all, and do we agree that we are deliberately increasing the state budget now and dramatically raising this amount to 17 million? Last year was 13.7 million. Yes, friends of socialists here noted that lives are important. Of course it's important, of course it's important, but don't mess things up. Every life must be preserved, the cost of life is expensive, and no one will pay for it, but we will talk about it in the context of this bill. Let's see the bill. The police spend 370,000 hours a year on traffic surveillance, of which 37% is spent on measuring the limit speed. This means that the police spend 1,000 hours a day on traffic surveillance. 1000 hours, of which 300 hours per day, is taken to measure the limit speed. One speed camera and 24 hours of simple mathematics, it's actually 10 speed camera work, but we already have 66 speed cameras. If they say that if we put on eight triple feet now, it will give the police a great opportunity to improve their work, then according to the explanatory memorandum, these 66 cameras have already improved the police's work a lot. Let's take the 300 hours a day that muscle and bone policemen spend measuring speed, and consider that eight more so-called triple feet are coming, and if you use them for 24 hours, the police actually only have 100 hours, their working hours are reduced three times. So the cops are gonna have a hell of a lot more time. What do I mean by that? These numbers in the explanatory notes and these explanations that I haven't received to this day unfortunately show that something's a little messy around here. We have not been given sufficient information. As I understand it, it is not clear to my good colleague, Hardi Volmer, who has also spoken on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, what this really means. This § 199 of the Traffic Act, I think, is probably the most productive of our hundreds and thousands of sections... Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U52	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U53	I argue that this is the most productive, most profitable section in the Republic of Estonia. In fact, it is intended to further increase the so-called productivity of this section. So, on the one hand, human lives must be protected and the activities of people with heavy feet must be limited, here we have no disagreements. However, in order to sign up to the state budget a sharp rise in the fines for speeding, I would not like to agree, especially if this is done in such a steep way. Last year, I recall, EUR 13.7 million had to be paid to the state budget at speed; this year, 17 million should be received. So think about it, ladies and gentlemen, when you read this bill and also sit on the wheel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U54	Thank you. No more callers, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 752. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the draft 752 amendments, including at 17 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U55	Let's go to the third item on today's agenda. First reading of the draft law amending the language law initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe, Helir-Valdor Seeder, Priit Sibula, Madis Milling and Hardi Volmer. Please present a speech chair for the member of the Riigikogu Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U56	A good deputy speaker, a good vice chairman of the board, and all my dear colleagues and people who follow us through the Internet! I'm here for the second time with the same bill. The last time we dealt with it here, we achieved a major upheaval: we identified the problem, we acknowledged that there was a problem, and we found that the problem needed to be solved. Therefore, me and the above members of the Riigikogu have come back with this draft, whose main aim is to amend § 32 of the Language Act so that the penalty rate is up to EUR 640 for natural persons and EUR 5120 for legal persons. For those of you who may be asking what this larger amount has come from, I say that this is multiplying the previous ceiling by eight. When we repeated it ten times last time and found that this ceiling is so good and simple for both legal and natural persons, we have now made it so that natural persons remain at the same rate and are eight times higher in legal terms. Of course, the Committee on Culture has better knowledge and competence to change these rates. Proposals from all members of the Riigikogu, together with political groups, are also welcome if they find a consensus in their group. So I'm ready for you to ask questions, and I'll give you answers. Thank you. Please support the bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U57	The first questioner is about to register. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U58	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The question is simple. How do you distinguish? I bring out the name of Maxima. Maxima has legal personality, Maxima's seller has no legal personality. But if Maxima's seller's skills do not meet the requirements of the language law, he does not speak the official language, Maxima's board will fine the seller, but in fact, Maxima's owner should be fined. How is it governed by your bill so that natural persons are protected from work done by legal persons?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U59	Thank you! Maxima, as a legal person, is able to impose its own sanctions under the internal rules of employment, which is signed by the contractor, the same cashier, in connection with the contract of employment. If you and I imagine that Maxima has a job in the internal rules of procedure, that an employee must speak Estonian on a good level, and if she does not know it, but has already signed it, she can be given them. As a general rule, it is not possible for a legal person to impose a penalty on its employees. The draft simply gives the Language Inspectorate the opportunity to deal with these matters. So, I don't see the possibility that Maxima's management is employing employees who may have been asked a question in advance during the interview about the George's Night Uprising, but the answer is that the moose in the bush.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U60	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U61	Thank you. This is a very welcome bill. I was among the signatories last time, unfortunately, this time I wasn't asked to sign it, I would have been happy to give it. But my question is, why does the penalty rate remain the same for individuals? Estonia has been independent for 28 years, a whole generation of young people from families of foreign origin have been brought up, their parents have lived here for decades and perhaps also been born here, but still more than a third of people of foreign origin do not speak Estonian. Don't you think they should actually be pressured harder to pick up and finally learn the language or start talking if they can, but they just don't want to?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U62	Thank you for this question. I am immediately sorry that at the moment I crochet and asked for signatures on both the explanatory memorandum and the draft, the second draft was also in the process, and I could only ask the individual. Many who wanted to support this idea, as well as the draft law on copyright, did not sign it. It's my fault I didn't take a long time or go to everyone's place to talk. Don't think now or start saying anything about a group. No, no, last time you came along, Henn, and I'd love to have invited you along now, but that's unfortunately what happened. Now to the point of your question. The bill doesn't just concern the people you told me about. Today, this problem is many times wider: service in Estonian in accommodation and catering facilities. If a young Spanish man comes here and sells pizza and all his Estonian skills are 'thank you' and 'thank you', in English he can say thank you, hello and welcome, then he must cope with this situation. Thus, this circle of problems is much wider. But why is that? I heard the reasons last time. It was jointly found that yes, legal persons should be affected. There was an opinion that the maximum proposed rate could be maintained for natural persons. However, I will say that the Commission and all the political groups have the opportunity to raise it. When speaking to the Head of the Language Inspectorate, it became clear that the maximum rate is very seldom applied to natural persons, i.e. so far it has not been implemented. The rate must be effective; it does not need to be such that it takes away the motivation of the person to learn the Estonian language. That's the difference that a lot of people don't want to understand, they say that forced money is a fine. Sunni money isn't a fine. Sunni money is still meant to motivate. I don't know how this law is going to go, it hasn't been dared to change that law for years. Let's see, when a miracle happens and this law is passed and it enters into force, we can do some sort of analysis on whether and how the situation has improved. My idea with this draft is to give the Language Inspectorate the tools to monitor properly, successfully and effectively.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U63	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U64	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! It's like a follow-up question about your very good reasoning. Why isn't Estonia already spoken in Estonian, although Estonia has been a re-independence for quite a long time, and why is the precondition and integral part of the bill not an audit of the previous years about where the money for language learning and immersion has gone and what hole it is hidden in? Billions of euros are gone. Right now, your bill is like pulling an emergency brake to somehow delineate it and protect the physical person. But why does Estonia not speak Estonian? In that time, I would have learned the Eskimo dialect too, wouldn't I, so there wouldn't be anything wrong with it? Where has the money gone, do you have any idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U65	Thank you for this question. That was a very sharp question. If you want a simple answer, I will say that this money has gone to leaflets, to the processing of measures, to the organisation of seminars and conferences, to the beautiful SWOT analyses and, of course, to the organisation of courses. However, it is unfortunate that when a certain number of people enroll, the course is considered to have begun, but there is no condition that the course is considered to have ended when some people end it. If a person does not have the will and interest to learn the Estonian language, but has met officials and registered himself, then it is possible for the citizen N to go there several times. At the same time, statistics can also be made and it can be said that Estonian language is extremely difficult because citizen N attends courses twice a year, at least registering there. You can't joke about this. It's kind of a taboo thing we've got here. This is how it has been done according to statistical indicators. Unfortunately, we can see in society that there has been an extremely big break. People who come to Estonia now learn the language in a year. People who have lived in Estonia for decades will not learn it. This may also be our own problem to some extent, because we are moving very quickly to the language that suits them, trying to show how intelligent we are. At the same time, as intelligent people, we could realize that these people need daily language practice, and we do a lot of disservice when we switch to the language that suits them. I am not rigid, I am very flexible and friendly, and quite many appreciate and respect me because I help these people learn Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U66	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the context of a sanction or of this bill, the idea is that it is sufficiently effective that a person or a legal person does not want to be targeted. It's obviously not working today. After all, we know the story of a legendary Lasnamäe school principal who, to put it mildly, mocks these sanctions and whose reward has already been signed up for forced money, it has become a routine. But my question is this: what is the order of magnitude of this coercive money today and how long has the current rate been in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U68	Thank you! Since when do we have this old rate, 640 euros? It was changed when we joined the euro, it was previously in Estonian kroons. Thus, from the time Estonia joined the euro. I don't have that euro in my pocket so much that I can remember when it was such a day of victory when the Estonian kroon was exchanged with the euro. This is my ignorance, I'm sorry! The new maximum amount of the penalty shall be EUR 5120. When we talk about legends, when it comes to paying EUR 5120 instead of EUR 640, probably at some point the board of this institution, starting to add up the pros, sees that there are still twice the precepts for forced money and EUR 10,000 goes to the mere fact that a person does not meet the conditions, and then considers that it makes sense to change the school manager to another person in order to improve students' learning conditions, because obviously this existing school manager who ignores the laws and laughs at them has no desire to learn Estonian and does not make sense to send him to courses.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U69	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Good starter waitress! The fact that more Estonian is spoken and that this is normal is what we all want. I read in the draft explanatory memorandum that one of the objectives of the draft is to motivate the heads of institutions and businesses in a positive way so that they contribute more to the language learning of their staff. However, you say in point 4 that the implementation of the draft does not entail any additional costs. That's not really right. This will certainly entail additional costs for businesses and heads of institutions. Yeah, it doesn't cost the Language Inspectorate, but it's kind of a wider question. Have you discussed or calculated what this still means, how much should entrepreneurs contribute more?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U71	Thank you! I say, it doesn't really cost you, because the laws are to be enforced. You're talking about breaking the law right now. Failure to comply with the law is not normal. If the law is not complied with, the penalty payment will be written down and the time will be allowed for the company to improve its performance. When we talk about physical persons, it's exactly the same. If a person does not comply with the law, it is the same as in the previous point, in the case of traffic cameras: we are going to process how much additional costs for speed limiters will be incurred. Overcoming the restriction is not normal. These are measures to ensure that we have smooth traffic or that Estonian is protected everywhere. Therefore, I will stick to the fact that the implementation of the draft as a law does not entail any additional costs, I can explain to those who respect our language and fulfil the conditions laid down in the language law.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U72	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Only yesterday I noticed a situation in a shop where an Estonian client turned to a Russian seller in Russian, and although this seller spoke Estonian perfectly and replied in Estonian, the client did not give up, but forced the Russian to do business. I myself know this person and know that in some other context he talks very keenly about the protection of the Estonian language. You mentioned intelligence when talking about a situation like this. But isn't it an inferiority complex, just a sense that Estonian doesn't deserve to be spoken?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U74	Thank you! If the person who allegedly stands up for the protection of the Estonian language behaves in this way and you call him intelligent, then he may seem intelligent. According to our understanding, he is not intelligent; he is abusive to both the Estonian language and the staff serving him. Such cases, I hope, are individual examples, total exceptions. But maybe this person is just bitter and does it every day and every time. When you saw it, you could have intervened and called him to order, saying to the common languages, "Get your own purchase and don't sell beets. '
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U75	Thank you. Good waitress! It seems to me that I could not make my point clear because I did not get the answer to what I wanted to know. Of course, compliance with the language law is compulsory, and we must do everything we can to ensure that the language law is complied with, in which we have no disagreement whatsoever, I fully support it. My question was that if employees do not speak Estonian well enough, employers will have to do something about it, otherwise they will be punished. That was my question. In order for them not to be penalised, they must enable employees, for example, to have paid language courses when free places are full. We have heard that there is a tenfold competition in language houses for the vacant places of language courses. Did you discuss how much it would be necessary for employers to contribute to the language training of their employees and how much it could cost them?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U76	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U77	Thank you! Companies are of different sizes. Thus, on average, when a person is recruited, there has been a prior interview and the employer should assume his or her own responsibility by deciding which part of the job he or she directs the person to. In a large company, it is a hotel or a shop, there are people who are part of the service staff, there are support forces, there are transport workers who I have also been in some companies and not because I had poor skills in the Estonian language, but simply because that was the way to participate in the labour market at the time. Therefore, this responsibility is in fact assumed by the undertaking. If he says that there are not so many Estonian speakers on the labour market, then perhaps he should look at the salary he has offered, why it does not motivate people who already speak the language to enter the service sphere. My first field of study is a junior salesman at Tallinn Kaubamaja, which means I know a lot about this area and I know enough about it because I myself am a small grocer, I know what my responsibility is. We know and see from statistics that wages are low in the service sphere. Very many Estonian residents are competitive somewhere else in the same sphere. At some point, the entrepreneur will also have to put the pros and cons together, see what the sanction is if he does not meet the conditions, and if he is issued with a penalty and if it goes into execution, would it be more reasonable to contribute to the Estonian language studies of existing employees? I'm starting to explain entrepreneurship. There's a lot of ways around here. In general, I think the laws are to be enforced, but you're talking about a special case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U78	Hardi Volmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U79	Dear waitress, who, as far as I'm concerned, in the '90s, you figured out the chef in our old town's catering establishments. One spiteful question, if you'll allow it. I think we all have this experience, you, me and the other people in this hall. I have gained this experience in many Estonian cities. You enter a catering establishment and you will be served nicely by a nice young person who speaks and communicates only in English with a kind smile. We're hauling this story on the Estonian-Russian axis. These institutions, by the way, which have only English service, are especially among the catering establishments. You don't know if there's any precedent for being forced to pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U80	Thank you for this question. One distinctive example is that in Viljandi, you can't order Chinese food in languages other than English. In many restaurants, service staff are well established students. But it is again, say, the chef or the catering manager's own decision when he makes such a person work there. My daughter, who is currently in Portugal under Erasmus and is studying, said that it was extremely difficult for her to find a job in a catering establishment. Here he also worked alongside the university in a catering business, but he studied Portuguese to be competitive there. But our head of some catering establishments thinks that this law is not to be enforced. Everyone has the impression somehow that we are only talking about the subject of 'one trade chain versus language law'. We do not want to understand that in hotels and restaurants all over Estonia this problem is acute and acute. Based on the 2017 data of the Language Inspectorate, no catering establishments have been identified in the name. It was surprising, however, that in the Committee on Culture, a representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, who thought that this was not a good draft, asked me for statistics. Our contractors have got it all wrong. They do their daily work and then ask the member of the Riigikogu whether precise statistics exist, how many such institutions exist and what they are. If our contractors don't produce this stats for us, then you and I, as employers, will be stuck and we'll have to look at who we've hired. It's not a spiteful question at all, but I owe you an answer, Hard. I think that if Madis Milling asked, delicately naming legends, I wouldn't be a good example if I started nailing some of the entrepreneurs here and bringing out the name of his private limited company or catering establishment. The purpose of this debate is not to ridicule or embarrass anyone, but rather to give the Language Inspectorate the means to effectively protect the Estonian language every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U81	Dear waitress Tarmo Kruusimäe, there are no further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U82	Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U83	Please speak to Toomas Jürgenstein, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U84	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Before I give you an overview of what happened in the Committee on Culture, I want to share with you all one message about what happened yesterday. Most of you know this, but I will say that the Estonian language house was opened yesterday in Tallinn. In this regard, I very much hope that this draft, which we are looking at now, is one of those that we must use as little as possible. But now what happened in the Committee on Culture. The Committee on Culture discussed this draft on 18 December. The Committee on Culture was a full member, only Viktoria Ladynskaja-Kubitsa replaced this point in the debate at Tarmo Kruusimäe. Liina Hirv, lawyer of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Research, and Andero Adamson, adviser to the Language Department, were also invited. I would like to say in advance that quite a short time ago, there was an analogous draft in the Commission, and a number of questions were already asked last time. Tarmo Kruusimäe introduced the bill exactly as he did here a moment ago: the legal person raises the penalty money to 5120 euros, the natural person to keep the same. The representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, Andero Adamson, said that they did not support the draft. I found two reasons in his claims. One was that it is not clear how the sum was 5120, and the other is that target groups, local authorities and employers are not involved in drafting the draft, even though it is good lawmaking practice. That was the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Research. Heidy Purga asked if there were any statistics on the increase or decrease in the number of infringements so that the law could be amended. Tarmo Kruusimäe confirmed that the Language Inspectorate receives a lot of complaints. Andero Adamson of the Ministry of Education confirmed that the Ministry has not received information from the Language Inspectorate about the significant increase in the number of violations. Laine Randjärv expressed his support for the draft principle and asked how the amount of coercive money proposed in the draft had developed. He also asked how the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Justice differed in their views. Tarmo Kruusimäe confirmed that the tenfold rise proposed in the previous draft seemed frightening to everyone and that fears should be mitigated. Liina Hirv, a lawyer at the Ministry of Education, explained that the Ministry of Education is looking at the overall picture of language policy and it is important to negotiate with local governments. Tiina Kangro expressed the opinion that even without research, the media will find out that the situation is unsatisfactory, and that there are problems with English in addition to the Russian language. Toomas Jürgenstein, or I, was simply asking to fix the position of the drafters, whether they have also thought that if the level of coercion of a legal person increased significantly, the level of coercion of a natural person could be reduced. According to Tarmo Kruusimäe, it is not evident that the language skills of natural persons are guaranteed, the rate can be reduced if they are in the way of time. Heidy Purga asked if the draft included cases and practices when, for example, signs and names in the urban area were wrong against claims. Tarmo Kruusimäe replied that the Language Inspectorate also prescribes shops and cafés. In my opinion, it was quite illustrative when Krista Aru asked for a statistical overview of the activities of the Language Inspectorate. Comparative data for 2014 and 2017 were provided. The number of sanctions and warnings varies, with 294 in 2014 and 322 in 2017 and 129 times in 2014 and 178 times in 2017. However, the average amount has been in a declining trend, with an average amount of EUR 223 in 2010 and 77 in 2017. Now the decisions. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 17 January, i.e. today, to appoint Toomas Jürgenstein as rapporteur, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 31 January. All the decisions were consensual. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U85	Dear waitress Toomas Jürgenstein, there are no questions for you. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U86	Hi! The Reform Party considers this change, which pays substantial attention to the Estonian language, to be very important. I must add that Estonian language policy is one of the priorities of the Reform Party, we stand for a uniform education in Estonian from kindergarten onwards. We do not need parallel worlds in Estonia, which can cause people to find themselves in trouble in the labour market and to become the focus of the law at the very moment. It is quite clear that it is important to motivate people to learn our beautifully-sounding Estonian language. However, the fact is that there have been consistent errors against the requirements for the knowledge of the Estonian language, and greater attention needs to be drawn to this important issue. That's why they want to change the law. At this point, I would like to explain the so-called expression of the Reform Party. We believe that if, without a thorough background study, merely increases the fine for violations in everyday language, by applying it to natural persons, this is not 100% justified. The amendment focuses on a rather narrow part of this law and would require a broader and more thorough investigation and greater involvement of specialists. Our view is that the state should also find other methods to motivate citizens to learn and speak Estonian every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U87	Thank you. On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U88	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! The faction of the Estonian Free Party and the Free Party as a whole are of course of the opinion that the Estonian language is the most beautiful language, the Estonian language must be maintained, developed, studied, and all this must be done so that the language lasts and lasts much longer than the next hundred years. As far as the draft law is concerned, it is a very important issue, after all, whether we are moving on the way to fine or impose a penalty, and so we are raising the status of our language, or whether we are thinking that 14 March, our mother tongue day, could be a national holiday and we are raising the status of Estonian language by means of such beautiful and positive things. One does not rule out the other, one can say for sure. In principle, it is the right approach to have one fine rate for legal persons and a much lower one for natural persons, if it is accompanied by the fact that we finally have one very fundamental and to this day incomplete thing, a decent and forward-looking Estonian language development plan. Only with fines and coercive money will we have our beautiful mother tongue even if we all want to keep it and develop it, and we certainly do not protect or develop it. Our question is whether the development plan for the Estonian language has been revised for the next decades, it is there, and how this draft law on coercion ties with the general concept of developing the Estonian language. We do not object to the draft, but we believe that this is a matter of general concept, ideological and spiritual convergence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U89	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Isamaa of Tarmo Kruusimäe. [[T. Kruusmäe question from the floor.]] You can speak on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U90	Thank you! I would like to say, on behalf of the initiators of the bill, that the words in this Chamber sounded beautiful and supportive. For that, I congratulate these people. In particular, I would like to refer to the idea that we do not follow our words but do what we do. When the Reform Party Group discussed and concluded that fines are not good practice, I agree with that. This bill is about forced money. Many thanks for providing mental support to the whole group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-01-17_U91	Thank you. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 756. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 756 amendments, including 31 January at 5.15 p.m. Our trial today is over. But, ladies and gentlemen, today we have talked a lot about security and road safety. The sidewalks are very slippery, and after lunch, ice also allows for the driveway. Be careful! Have a safe day! Closure of the sitting at 11.42 a.m.
