ParlaMint-EE_2019-04-09_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the Tuesday session of the second working week of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. The Governing Board is prepared to accept requests for information and drafts, if any. I can't see them. So let's go ahead without any questions or drafts. There's a lot of messages. Today, following the end of the plenary session, the next parliamentary groups will hold their own set-up meetings in this Chamber. First, Estonian-Great Britain, the convener is Maris Lauri. Secondly, Estonia and Denmark, the convener is Yoko Alender. Third, Estonia and Israel, the convener is Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Fourthly, Estonia and Russia, the convener is Aadu Must. Fifthly, Estonia-Moldova, the convener is Erki Savisaar. Sixthly, Estonian-Tunisia, the convener is Erki Savisaar. Seventh, Estonia and Romania, the convener is Erki Savisaar. Eighth, Estonia and France, the caller is Andres Sutt. The ninth, Estonian-Luxembourg, is called by Andres Sutt. Tenth, Estonian-India, the caller is Sven Sester. By the eleventh, Estonian-Azerbaijan, the convener is Sven Sester. By the twelfth, Estonian-Spanish, the caller is Raivo Tamm. By the thirteenth, Estonian-Monaco, the convener is Raivo Tamm. The next set-up meetings of the support groups will also take place here today after the end of the plenary session. First of all, the bullying-free school support group, the convener is Maria Jufereva-Skuratovski. Secondly, Ida-Viru County Support Team, the convener is Katri Raik. Third, the transit and logistics support group, the convener is Aivar Kokk. Fourthly, the volunteer rescue support team, the convener is Madis Milling. Fifthly, the support group for maintaining the tradition of Estonian Forest Brotherhood, the convener is Eerik-Niles Kross. These are the messages, many groups of all kinds are being set up. Okay. The reports have been taken into account, and now there will be a presence check. Incoming check, please! The presence check is complete. 89 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 12 are missing. On today's agenda, I have such a message that there is nothing on the agenda. So today's session is closed. If anyone wants to take a tour, it's possible after the hearing. Closure of the sitting at 10.04 a.m.
