ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U1	Good morning, honourable members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U2	Before we begin the trial today, we have the oath of the Supreme Court member Kalev Saare. Please create a festive atmosphere in the hall and invite a member of the Supreme Court to take an oath!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! I pledge to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. I pledge to exercise justice according to my conscience in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Estonia. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U4	Well, now it's time to hand over the drafts and the enquiries when there are. Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U5	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is my pleasure or honour to question the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps, on behalf of the members of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. We also heard yesterday in Riigikogu Question Time that our Minister of Education is trying to ride the same spaceship to and from the moon at the same time as using a figurative expression. I mean, we're losing comprehensive school finals, and at the same time, with the other hand, we're creating a common social education exam for everyone. This is just one example of the quick, unweighted decisions and incomplete documents that have reached the Committee on Culture this season. Most importantly, these are not the main issues of Estonian education. It is certainly important for us to have equal access to education, which we increasingly doubt. Teachers pay 15,000 teachers in Estonia, full of a decent city, but they can be deceived. At present, their minimum wage, rather than the average wage, is rising as much as expected. Perhaps yesterday's news haze overlooked the fact that students were on strike to raise the pay of their teaching staff. Finally, the Estonian Russian-speaking school needs support and clarity. The activities of Kohtla-Järve State Gymnasium show this. I will conclude by saying that Estonia was the result of the last PISA test in 2015 in the world, not in Europe! In science and mathematics, seventh to eighth place. As we saw yesterday, Estonia's international renomee has been damaged since yesterday. And if we are not as good in the PISA test as we are now, we will surely be sad, because then Estonia's real Nokia, Estonia's good education, will be lost. We hope to get an explanation from the Minister for Education about his activities and about future plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U6	Thank you. An inquiry will be conducted in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, the presence check. There are us, honourable members of the Riigikogu, 81, missing 20. We can start the hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U7	Our first item today is the bill number 102 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint 'Juhan Sarve as a member of the Supreme Court' by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve. Its processing will look like this. This is the first reading, the rapporteur is Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, and we will also hear the presentation of Juhan Sarve, a candidate for the Supreme Court. The report of the representative of the Constitutional Commission is intended for up to 20 minutes; the presentation of the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court is limited to five minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. Representatives of the political groups may take the floor during the negotiations and the final vote shall be secret. So let's get started. Mr. Woodland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court, Juhan Sarve, and give an overview of what took place during the discussion of the Constitutional Committee on the appointment of Juhan Sarve as a member of the Supreme Court. First of all, Juhan of the Horn himself. He has obtained a degree corresponding to his master's degree in law at the University of Tartu: he graduated cum laude in 2002. Between 2002 and 2017, he worked as an adviser to the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, since August 2017 until this time he has worked as a judge of the Tartu Circuit Court. In addition to the long-term experience in the judicial system, Juhan Sarv, as author, has contributed to the compilation of a number of important publications and scientific publications. He is one of the authors of the comments of the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Courts Act and the Constitutional Review Court Procedure Act. He has also written articles on the resolution of civil actions in criminal proceedings, tax and professional offences and the practice of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court. On these issues, Juhan Sarv has also conducted training courses for judges, prosecutors and tax and customs officials. Juhan Sarve is undoubtedly an experienced lawyer whose place in the Supreme Court College is certainly justified. We also met at the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which was on Monday, 11 November. Kalle Grünthal, Marek Jürgenson, Siim Kiisler, Oudekki Loone, Lauri Läänemets, Hanno Pevkur, Taavi Rõivas and Vilja Toomas took part in the committee meeting. In addition to Juhan Sarve, President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve was invited. The discussion was very exciting, there were many questions and the hearing was long. I will bring out some of the most important questions that were raised there. So perhaps we can prevent some of the questions you were planning to ask here today. Hanno Pevkur asked why the proceedings in Estonia last very long. He also studied how Juhan Sarv feels about the competitive process. Juhan Sarv replied that he was pessimistic about the application of the competing process in Estonian law. In his opinion, the competitive process is not characteristic of Estonian culture. There are few trainings and therefore there would not be enough qualified persons in the competitive process. He said that the purpose of court proceedings must be to achieve a result that is as close to the truth as possible and that the best lawyer, not the truth itself, could win in the competitive process. He pointed out that court proceedings were slowed down by various factors. At times, however, there are simply too rigid rules in criminal proceedings that we might consider softening. This is, of course, a task for politicians and we would have the opportunity to do something here. Oudekki Loone asked how independent the courts are from each other and, if necessary, whether a Constitutional Court could be set up, which has been much talked about in the media and in the general public at all. Juhan Sarv replied that he felt that we did not have any problems with the independence of the courts and that there was no excessive pressure in the courts. In his opinion, the current judicial system guarantees the political independence of the courts; it is a good system. At the same time, he said that innovation is needed in the judicial system, but these innovations must be evolutionary, not revolutionary. The creation of a Constitutional Court could create an opportunity for political influence. Kalle Grünthal asked how much the media's comments on the cases affected the judges. Juhan Sarv replied that the judge had to rely on the file. His personal experience is that media coverage differs from the information in the file. He felt that media coverage had to be balanced, and how much information should be provided to the public at an early stage of the procedure was a very serious issue. Oudekki Loone was still wondering if Juhan Sarv felt the legal problem of the prosecutor's office being able to investigate the evidence for years, but the defense has only a few months to see the evidence. The parties are therefore not in an equal position. Juhan Sarv replied that everything, however, depends on the specific situation. Sometimes it's not possible to give evidence to a lawyer sooner. Without first holding the evidence, it is not possible to collect the necessary new evidence. One amendment to the law which has the effect of speeding up judicial proceedings would be the right of judges to make a case in which no fact, even a certified fact, contained in the indictment, does not correspond to the formation of the crime, either a judicial decision immediately or another technical decision in such a way that the proceedings do not reach the examination of the evidence. Juhan Sarv explained that the current law does not provide for such an option; the evidence must be examined in any case, even if it takes years. According to Juhan Sarve, the Code of Criminal Procedure is designed to solve simpler, so-called couple of crimes against the accused, but in a situation where the crimes have proved to be very complex, the current Code of Criminal Procedure is too rigid. Kalle Grünthal asked whether the termination of criminal proceedings with an oportunity requires the person to plead guilty in full. He asked me to clarify that. Juhan Sarv replied that, strictly speaking at the conclusion of criminal proceedings with an oportunity, a person does not have to plead guilty, but is interpreted as terminating criminal proceedings on the basis of the accused. The person must accept termination on this basis. He also stated that this is the second type of procedure, but he must accept the agreement and accept the fact that he will be bound by the seal of the perpetrator. After a long round of questions and answers, the Commission took procedural decisions. The committee decided to propose to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 21 November, to appoint the chairman of the committee in Puustusmaa as rapporteur and to propose to allow Juhan Sarvel to present a presentation before the assembly for up to five minutes in accordance with § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U9	No questions asked. So once again, thank you! Now we ask Juhan Sarve, a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court for a speech chair, so that he can present his views within five full minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U10	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. It is a great honour to stand before you in this Chamber, where 28 years ago Estonia's independence was restored and where laws are born on the basis of which the court will exercise justice. I would also like to thank all those members of the Riigikogu whom I have already had the opportunity to meet in both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the political groups and in a very pleasant atmosphere to discuss different legal issues. In my current work as a court counselor and judge of the district court, yes, for 17 years I have dealt predominantly with penal law and criminal proceedings. To a lesser extent, there has been contact with other branches of law. If you should support my candidacy today, I hope that my knowledge and experience in the office of a judge of state will be applied honestly and impartially. Since, in the course of my candidacy, the most likely question arose of how to shorten the length of the proceedings in large criminal cases, I would use the minutes allocated to me here primarily to suggest some ideas on how the legislator could make the Estonian criminal procedure less bureaucratic and thus speed up the processing of large cases. By this, I do not want to say that absolutely everything is in the hands of the legislator and there is nothing that can be done by the courts themselves. Certainly can, but given the current audience, I would rather focus on the possibilities that are in the hands of the legislator. One aspect was already mentioned by the rapporteur: it might be possible to acquit a person without examining the evidence if the court finds that the act described in the charge, even if it is proved, does not correspond in abstract terms to the characteristics of any crime. This would save a great deal of time on the one hand and increase the quality of prosecutions on the other. Secondly, it would be worth considering the possibility of removing the obligation to present and examine evidence in criminal proceedings, as in civil proceedings, of facts which are accepted by all parties to legal proceedings, i.e. which are not in fact the subject of a dispute. Thirdly, the procedure for examining written evidence could be simplified, in particular by reducing unnecessary reading of documents at the hearing. Fourthly, the Court could have more effective means of controlling proceedings in a situation where some parties to proceedings have started to delay the process. Fifthly, it is now the case that if the judge hearing the case changes before the proceedings are closed, the whole procedure must start again, even if it has been going on for years. However, such shifts cannot be ruled out by people who retire, get sick, exchange jobs, and that is inevitable. We cannot say that nothing can happen until the case is resolved. But today's technology would allow very high-quality video recording of hearings. The law could be amended in such a way that the new formation of the Court has the right, after reviewing the video recordings, to continue to discuss the case where the previous formation left behind, rather than from scratch. It would make a remarkable victory in matters where the judge changes. Sixth, I would point out that there were 77,8 lawyers per 100000 inhabitants in Estonia as of 2017. This is one of the lowest figures in the European Union. In our large 'legal model country' in Germany, this figure is 2.5 times higher, in many European countries even higher, for example in Cyprus and Luxembourg more than five times higher. I am afraid that the shortage of lawyers dealing with criminal law in Estonia, and especially the shortage of strong lawyers, is one of the problems, which is that it is difficult to find a meeting time simply because the calendars of lawyers are full. From this point of view, you could look at the Bar Act: whether it would be possible to increase the number of lawyers in Estonia by changing something there, without, of course, lowering the quality of other legal services. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! There is no single magic wand that would allow for a swift and quality-free settlement of major procedures. But there is definitely room for improvement, both on the court side and on the law side. These examples were designed as a non-exhaustive and really illustrative overview of what could be considered, among other things, in order to improve the situation. But, of course, the decision on what to change in criminal proceedings and whether to change at all can only come from you. Only you can make that decision. I'd end up with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U11	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Reuben Kaalep, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U12	Thank you. Good waitress! I ask you the same question I have asked the candidates for the previous Supreme Court Member. The question in itself is simple: does the Constitution of Estonia prevail over the law of the European Union in the territory of the Republic of Estonia, including Petseri County and on the right side of the Narva River?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U13	Thank you for your question. Yes, in the sense that Estonia may belong to the European Union according to the Constitutional Amendment Act of the Republic of Estonia, on the basis of the fundamental principles of its constitution. This means that the fundamental principles of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia are at the top of the Estonian legal order, and they also pre-empt the law of the European Union. If there were a serious conflict and conflict, the result would probably be that Estonia should leave the European Union. But basically, the Republic of Estonia is completely sovereign.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U14	Thank you. Mikhail Lotman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U15	Thank you. Did I understand your proposal correctly that, if both parties agree with the facts, it is as if time was not wasted to confirm their validity? I'm a little puzzled by that. After all, there may be situations where the alleged perpetrator may affect the victim. For example, in the case of domestic violence, the victim says that there was nothing, but he has a blue eye and a tooth has come out, he confirms that he fell down the stairs because of his own fault.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U16	Thank you for your question. It should, of course, be noted here that the prosecution function in criminal proceedings is carried out by the prosecutor's office and that the prosecutor's office is not bound by the victim's position. If the prosecutor's office has sufficient evidence that despite the victim denying his or her attack, the attack took place, the fact that the victim claims that this attack did not take place does not prevent the continuation of criminal proceedings, prosecution and prosecution of the person.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U17	Peter Ernits, here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U18	Good manager! Good waitress! Six years ago, the question arose as to whether to remove the immunity of members of the Riigikogu from Priit Toobal and Lauri Laas. At the time, Chancellor Teder sent this application back to the prosecutor's office, but you intervened and said that in fact the Chancellor of Justice's room is close to zero, he is only such a mailbox to pass on the application, it is not up to him to discuss the constitutionality of the matter. Before we start to press a button here and vote for or against you, I'd like to know this. A similar situation may one day arise with any of us here, and does the Chancellor of Justice have to accept everything the prosecutor's office proposes? As we know, we have a little problem with the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U19	Thank you for your question. No, I certainly did not say at the time that the Chancellor of Justice is a mailbox, who simply has to report the proposals of the prosecutor's office to the Riigikogu or is like the mouthpiece of the prosecutor's office. At the time, there was a dispute that the Chancellor of Justice refused to submit this proposal because he claimed that the law under which the proceedings were carried out was perhaps a search, if I remember correctly, an illegal law. Then the specialist literature, or legal columns, developed a discussion on whether the Chancellor of Justice is competent to make a final decision as to whether or not this law is contrary to the Constitution. I then expressed the view that the Chancellor of Justice cannot make such a final assessment; it is, however, the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Review Court. If the Chancellor of Justice suspects that the law is illegal, he can initiate constitutional review proceedings on the basis of the Constitution and the law. If, in the course of this procedure, it is clear that this law is indeed against the Constitution, there is also a basis for not submitting this application to the Riigikogu. However, there are reasons why the Chancellor of Justice may refuse to submit a proposal from the prosecutor's office to the Riigikogu, of course more. In particular, they relate to whether there is reason to believe that a particular criminal procedure is a political act of retaliation or is a procedure based on other inappropriate reasons, rather than a classic investigation of a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U20	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U21	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! I have a broader question. Would you recommend that we come to Parliament more openly with a debate on penal law? Do you personally think that we have over-regulated criminal law or not? Have we too much in Parliament to adopt the recommendations of the Ministry of Justice and to regulate something loudly?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U22	Thank you for your question. I have always believed that penal law and criminal liability are a limited resource that must be used sustainably. We need to be very careful not to devalue the threat of a crime. While, figuratively speaking, half the population is in the criminal record, the fact of such a conviction loses its meaning, as if it no longer has any substantive condemnation value. If you look at the Penal Code, there are indeed quite a number of very spacious crime formations in which a very large part of human behavior could be placed under a purely grammatical interpretation. In particular, Chapter 10 of the Penal Code, which lists crimes relating to political rights and civil liberties, stands out. An example, such as private pursuit. I may be a little wrong to quote from my head, but basically, this composition says something about punishing another person for monitoring him for gathering information about him. In pure grammatical interpretation, we're probably putting all this crime on the table right now, if we're watching someone else, we can still gather some information about him. No one will, of course, be found guilty of such practices. And so it is possible that the court must begin to interpretably narrow this composition, but the court does not like it very much. The court would like the legislator to set the boundaries more firmly. And there are still such formations where the area of punishment is too wide, probably with the idea that nothing would be left out for God and, if necessary, that it would be punished. On the other hand, when writing down a crime, however, you should think about the other way around: you must still write down those acts that absolutely need to be punished and make sure that they do not involve acts that should not be punished.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U23	Anti-Semiamets, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It is claimed that the number of false complaints in relation to alleged cases of domestic violence is increasing, just when families are in the process of divorce. And this is supposedly a serious problem. Hence the more general question: how do you deal with false complaints at all? This is a serious crime against justice. How can such situations be better controlled?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U25	Thank you for your question. The answer is that they must be dealt with as any crime, because, indeed, making a false complaint is a crime and all means of criminal proceedings must be used against it. There is obviously no specific procedure for dealing with these crimes. But here we have to admit that there might be a situation where we can't really know what the truth is. There is still a situation against the word, and there is no reason to favour one side or the other, or to say that one is lying, the other is not lying. Both individuals, i.e. both the alleged perpetrator and the alleged false complainant, are subject to the presumption of innocence, and then it can be that neither version is supported. However, of course, it is the task of the judge to do everything possible to gather evidence and find out whether it was really violence or whether it is a false complaint who knows what objectives to achieve. That is what pre-trial proceedings and later court proceedings are to bring the truth to light. But in the face of the truth, you have to admit that it doesn't always work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U26	Kert Kingo, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U27	Hello, honorable candidate. I would like to hear your opinion on the situation that caused conflicting emotions. The case of Mary Kross, which proved that she was giving false statements to the police, was closed with an opportunity. And practically the next day, Mary Kross began to claim that she had not given false statements and that the police had not done their job correctly and had taken the wrong course. I would like to hear your comment on this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U28	Thank you for your question. It is very difficult for me to comment on this because I have not looked at this dossier myself. I only know as much as it is written in the press, and in that sense I really don't want to make any final assessment. However, this question relates a little to a subject which also arose in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: we cannot, strictly speaking, deny anyone, under the conditions of freedom of expression, that he is not guilty. Even after a conviction, a person may be convinced that he is innocent and may express it. Opportunity is not a conviction. Whether it was properly applied in this case, whether it was appropriate to end the procedure in this way or not, unfortunately, here I am indebted to the answer, because I have not been familiar with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U29	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U30	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I am pleased that the Supreme Court is thus rejuvenating and coming from a very diverse background. In the last six months, you must be the fourth Supreme Court judge we appoint here. My question is that we discussed very much about Kai Kullerkupu, Kalev Saare and Kaupo Paal, what is currently burdening our courts and how the rest of society can help, so that families can be better aligned with each other, so that divorces do not come to court, but can be agreed earlier. But if we're looking at criminal cases and all our crime scenery, what do you see? What are the concerns that the rest of society should help to alleviate? What are things we can better keep an eye on? What can we do differently? Could it be drug crimes or kidnappings? What do you think these concerns are?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U31	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I think drug-related crimes are an issue that you might want to pay attention to. I am not talking about legitimisation or decriminalisation of any substance here, but the situation is that the law does not distinguish narcotics on the basis of their dangers. Basically, fentanyl and marijuana are in one of the so-called groups. I think that's the other problem. Paragraph 183 of the Penal Code refers to the handling of small quantities of narcotics and to the handling of large quantities of § 184. In the case of § 184 compositions, there is no mention of any kind of transfer; simply handling this large quantity is sufficient. But when we look at the law, which is a large amount, it's ten consumptions, which is actually very little. And this section also includes people who are not involved in drug trafficking or drug trafficking, but maybe not dealing with the most dangerous substances for themselves and perhaps for their friends. There's a lot more differentiation here. After all, experience in the world also shows that severe penalties do not solve the drug problem. There is a need for other measures, there is a need for rehabilitation, there is a need for treatment, there is a need for all these. Punishment must remain valid for certain things. I'm sure he's in his place, but you don't have to rely on punishment alone. I think that there would be savings in the implementation of penal law, but that the emphasis should be shifted. And one more thing, of course, is the very spacious elements of the crime I mentioned earlier. If you narrow some things down a little, it might help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U32	Kalle Grünthal, next question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Here's the question. In recent times, verbal attacks, both through social media and through the press, have been very frequent. People are being threatened. What is your assessment of whether a threat delict could be included in the context of misdemeanour proceedings? From the point of view of penal law, this has probably been criminalised in certain cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U34	Yes, threatening is a crime under certain conditions: when it is threatened with killing, serious damage to health or destruction of property in a substantial part, and that threat is credible. If it were to be a misdemeanor, it would make it easier, so to speak, to ease the situation. Or do you mean to create a composition next to it, so that the lower threats would go under like misdemeanor? You could think about that. I don't know how to judge it on the way here, but you might want to think about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U35	Helle-Moonika Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U36	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You cannot, of course, comment on the case of Mary Kross, because you have not yourself participated in this process. But I'm asking you that Attorney General Lavly Perling has clearly stated in his 2017 guide that the oportunity cannot stop the crimes against justice. And giving the police false stories is an unlawful offense. As an expert, how would you comment on this contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U37	Thank you. Strictly speaking, the Chief Prosecutor's Guide is not a so-called binding act. It is quite common that, in justified cases, and this is also a practice that is fully accepted within the prosecutor's office, it deviates from the instructions of the Attorney General. So I don't see a big problem in itself. And once again, as far as the substance of the matter is concerned, I am indebted to the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U38	There. No further questions for the candidate for a member of the Supreme Court. Thank you. Now we have the opportunity to open negotiations. Representatives of the political groups may take part in the negotiations. There are no requests in the call box, so the debate is closed and we will start voting. First I invite everyone to the Chamber and then we go to the voting process. Attention! I would like to remind everyone that this is a secret vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Court's decision "Virgation of Juhan Sarve as a Member of the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve. Please take a stand and vote. 67 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 3 against, no abstentions. Juhan Sarv has been appointed as a member of the Supreme Court. Congratulations! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U39	Now that we have calmed down, we will move on to the next item on the agenda. This is the second reading of the Bill 74 on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Citizens' Initiative initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation here by Paul Puustusmaa, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U40	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I bring before you 74 SEs, i.e. the second reading of the draft law implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/788 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Citizens' Initiative, and the resulting procedural decisions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. First of all, the draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 16 September this year. The first reading took place on 22 October. At its meeting on 19 November, the Commission proposed that the second reading of the draft be suspended and that the deadline for the draft amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 3 December. I'm going to take a little look at what happened at this hearing. The hearing, as I said, took place on 19 November. Heiki Hepner, Marek Jürgenson as an alternate member of Siim Kiisler, Kalev Kallo Oudekki as an alternate member, Erkki Keldo as an alternate member of Taavi Rõivas, Kert Kingo as an alternate member of Kalle Grünthal and Hanno Pevkur and Vilja from Toomas took part. Lauri West Forest was missing. Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Mihkel Pilving, Adviser to the State Election Service were also invited. At the Commission's meeting, I informed the Commission that this draft has been discussed very intensively, investigatively and strongly, because it is urgent. This is an act of the European Union, the date of entry into force of which is the beginning of next year. I also said the same words that Katri Raik said here on the remote today: we will not be forgiven if we take things in haste and without consideration. This implementing act has raised more questions than the explanatory memorandum has been able to provide answers. We can't hurry. We need to take a break, take a few moments, figure it out, then go on with the second reading. Mr Pevkur then asked whether such an unexpected proposal was motivated by the possible wish of the Centre Party Group to give non-citizens the right to sign the declarations of support for the citizens' initiative, as this European Union regulation requires. I answered that and said it certainly didn't mean it. And to be quite honest, this is not the result of the European Union regulation, because this regulation on the citizens' initiative only concerns the citizens of the European Union. We cannot talk about receiving or moving in this direction the support signatures of non-citizens. Erkki Keldo asked whether the debate would require the part of the 16-year-olds' right to support the citizens' initiative by signing the statement of support, or whether there were other issues in the draft. I replied that there were certainly enough circumstances in the draft, the impact of which, if necessary, will have to be assessed again and again. We will not be forgiven for haste. Finally, we made procedural decisions. I proposed to interrupt the second reading. This was supported by Marek Jürgenson, Kalev Kallo and Kert Kingo; I myself, against Erkki Keldo, Hanno Pevkur and Vilja Toomas, had no abstentions. I proposed that the deadline for amendments be set at 3 December 2019, with Mr Jürgenson, Mr Kallo, Mr Kingo and Mr Puustusmaa against Erkki Keldo, Mr Pevkur and Mr Toomas, there were no abstentions. That was the end of the Commission meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U41	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Yeah, that's the debate we had. It is completely incomprehensible that, if, at one meeting in the committee, all the members of the committee in corpore support it in order to conclude the second reading, suddenly, in exceptional circumstances, the chairman of the committee proposes to put it back on the agenda. The question arose as to why, and we did not get an answer to that. Are you going to reveal the real reason now? And the deadline for amendments is not ten days, as the Rules of Procedure normally provide, but the proposal is shorter. I understand that the coalition still has a desire to adopt this law before Christmas, but in some form changed. In what form, the members of the Riigikogu will take this decision here today do not know. Would you enlighten me? If this is not related to the wish of the Centre Party to include non-citizens, is it linked to the problem of the Committee on Culture that has arisen in connection with the social studies exam and citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U43	Thank you, Hanno! In fact, I also said at the committee meeting that the claim that everyone agreed with the draft law is not entirely true. There were people who were opposed, and I personally opposed them too. But the question is wider because there are a number of issues that need to be considered again. I cannot say that we are definitely making changes to the bill that has come from the government. But there are questions that need to be weighed again from a number of angles. This is precisely because the explanatory memorandum and the officials have not provided sufficient answers. I would remind you that this is an implementing act. The regulation, this implementing act we are discussing today, will actually enter into force in accordance with the law. This implementing act deals with three moments. It deals with the granting of political rights to children, designates statements of support as the verifying authority of the Ministry of the Interior and places on the Data Protection Inspectorate the tasks of verifying the conformity of the individual system for collecting online statements of support. Those are the three things. And the fourth point is also: with regard to the implementation of this regulation, the previous regulation will be repealed. These four points, in themselves, are not very complex. We in the Commission discussed whether or not there could be a problem with the Ministry of the Interior. They asked why the Ministry of the Interior didn't. But we came to the conclusion in the Commission that the Ministry of the Interior is not a problem. At the same time, the impact of this law, the impact of the implementation of this regulation in our judicial area, is not really assessed. There are some initiatives coming from the European Union, is it still justified that we involve children in this decision-making process? This has not been said directly here. The question is that there is a point 7 in the regulation itself, which says that it is appropriate to set the age limit needed to support the initiative. This minimum age should correspond to the age laid down for the European Parliament elections. And this ready-to-be age is known to be 18 years old. There may be other questions that need to be considered again. But I think that there is certainly still a need to discuss a fundamental political decision on whether to get children into politics. By its very nature, this may not be the right move. With that, we'd be the Pope's pope again. Let us remember that we are going back a little bit: giving children political rights is a rather fresh problem. We remember that in the 1960s, the election was even higher than 18: 20, 21, 25 years. But then there were revolutionary changes. In the 1960s and 1970s, there were very major changes in world policy in terms of the prosperity of left-wing policy, the prosperity of social democracy. Then, indeed, all the countries began to humiliate the elections in an appalling manner. Very quickly, by broadening political rights around the world, it was established that at least 18 years of age were to be elected. That's where it stayed for a couple of decades. But now, in the 21st century, the theme has risen so that this border can be further lowered. Is that justified or not? I would remind you that there are over 200 countries in the world, only 12 countries have the right to vote for children. There are four such countries in Europe, and we are once again the Pope's pope, and among these four are Estonia. These are political decisions, of course we are all deciding here. But these questions are up and they need to be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U44	Hanno Pevkur, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U45	Thank you. Good Paul! There are clear rules for transposing European law in Estonia. First of all, you can't graft anything in there. I hope you have no intention of grafting anything into it either. Secondly, it is a regulation and the regulation is directly applicable anyway. Third, you're saying there's no impact assessment here. But the adoption of this regulation in the European Union has certainly been preceded by a very long process in which Estonian experts have also participated and assessed these effects. So I'm going to read out here that, a) do you just drive flies into our heads right now in some vague sense that there's still a need to assess the effects that have been done for a long time, or b) you still want to add something that doesn't fit in with it. And c) I read here that you simply do not trust the Government of the Republic, which has brought the implementation of this regulation to this Parliament. Which option do you choose?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U46	Thank you, good Hanno! I have always appreciated the sharpness of your questions. It is pleasant and exciting to answer them. But the question of government distrust I already gave you the answer in committee, you asked me that too. I can assure you that this is certainly not a lack of trust in the government's activities far from it. As for the desire to graft something else, I assure you that nothing is going to be grafted on. Although, yes, the deadline for submitting amendments is a little ahead of us, and I can't rule out someone wanting to graft something more. I can't rule it out, but as far as I know, there is no great desire to graft. However, as I said, there are just questions that need a little clearer answers. We're trying to get them, and fast-track. You rightly pointed out that this was a direct regulation and that it would apply either way. Indeed, what would happen if we did not adopt the law on this implementing act? It is true that this should take place in January and that is why we are speeding up the process. If we do not approve this implementing act, the procedure established by the previous regulation will in principle remain in force. The Home Office isn't going anywhere. It's still a contact point. The question, of course, is whether or not children are involved. Children would not be involved in this situation. But that does not mean that we should not have to adopt this legislation. The European Union expects us to give concrete input, which is our position on this new regulation. That is what we are giving, and I believe that we will also give it in time, i.e. before January 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U47	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Now is the opportunity to open negotiations and there is a wish for negotiations. The first petitioner is Lauri Läänemets from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U48	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I listen to this debate and cannot wonder how the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia can underestimate the young people of Estonia in this way. I do not remember that if we discussed this draft for the first time in the Commission, there would have been some kind of problem. I can conclude from this that the EKRE has discussed the matter at its group meeting or somewhere else and has come to the conclusion that the young people of Estonia are not qualified or able to think for themselves. When we're talking about 16+, we're not talking about kids, we're talking about young people. I've been dealing with these issues myself. I remember that when the Youth Association and so many other young people in Estonia stood up for being able to vote in local elections when they were 16 years old, there were a lot of opinions that these young people knew what they could think about something. But I want to remember one thing: the same Riigikogu has made such laws in Estonia that this young person, who is in the ninth grade and the majority of young people in the ninth grade are 16 years old, must make a choice in his life. When you're 16, you have to make a choice in your life. You have to essentially decide whether you're going to go down this path to vocational education, or you're going down this path that leads to upper secondary school and university. It'll decide everything in your life, it's the most important choices in your life. And then we question whether young people can, like, think about something. Well, it's actually very easy to choose local governments, isn't it? After all, the main issues are whether we can fix a road or build a new school. Every person knows what is more important to him, and this opinion can also be expressed without distinction whether you are 16 or 17 years old. I'm saying 15-year-olds can do that. In this case, we are not even talking about elections, we are talking about young people being able to express their views on issues. And to doubt that a young person does not have the opinion that a young person is unable to take part in society's affairs is very sad, very sad. In short, the call from me and the other social democrats and our proposal are: let us not doubt the young people of Estonia! Our young people must be encouraged, our young people must be supported, our young people must be amplified. If we, as members of the Riigikogu, can contribute to this and somehow demonstrate it, then we must do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U49	Thank you. Mr Pevkur, please, as representative of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U50	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think the question today is whether or not the procedure for this draft should be interrupted at second reading. There is something behind here that Riigikogu members or at least a large part of the Riigikogu members do not know about. If we look at the content of this draft, we can see that there is only one substantive section: whether the citizens' initiative can be supported by the citizens' initiative at least 16 years of age or only 18 years of age. No more content. It has been discussed at EU level between all Member States, the impact has been assessed and it has been found reasonable to give young people the opportunity to support the citizens' initiative. This is not the right to make a bill, it is not the right to call for any referendum, it is the right to speak on some subject by supporting a citizens' initiative. We have granted various rights to young people in Estonia before. And now, suddenly, at the last minute, there's something on the board that wasn't on the table before. Even there were no questions at first reading in this Chamber; neither was the Commission at first preparing for second reading. Then, just from the left corner of the ceiling, there will suddenly be an addition to the Commission's agenda, which was not on the original agenda. It is as if we still need to assess the effects. What effect do you evaluate in eight days? Will we be smarter by December 2nd? Who's gonna appreciate it? Has the Constitutional Committee entrusted the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu with the task of assessing the effects? I don't remember giving it to you. It is a silly reason in this sense that, in general, it helps, both in the committees and in this Chamber, to say honestly what they want to do. Right now, nobody understands what we're doing here. We are about to interrupt the bill, although there were no arguments against it. None! We still need to assess the effects, something is unclear. What is that? Well, there are no arguments, Paul and the other EKRE members, either! It is not a question of whether or not to oppose this interruption. It is a question of the principle of how we make decisions in the Riigikogu Chamber, how they arise. In such a small matter, suddenly cause a lot of fuss about nothing that doesn't make sense! I really hope that within the eight working days of the amendments being tabled, nothing will come up that would mean trying to sew a jacket on the button. I hope so! Because if you do, first of all, it goes against the procedure for transposing European Union legislation. Secondly, if the coalition has simply agreed that we will not make the right to a citizens' initiative every 16 years, then say it publicly to the young people of Estonia. Then tell the young people that the government coalition does not support the fact that young people have more right of initiative so that the 16-year-olds can decide for themselves. There's no other reason. As I said, this is a regulation that is directly applicable. In this sense, it is just sad and incomprehensible that we have to discuss this issue in this big Chamber today. And the coalition brought to the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the people who were not there in preparation for first reading and also initially in preparation for second reading for the vote. It brought Mr Kallo and Mrs Kingo to the vote. A little sad stuff, that's all. Power!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U51	On behalf of the Group of the Isamaa of Tarmo Kruusimäe. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U52	Good Vice-Chairman, as far as I know, there is a second reading and there is no speaking on behalf of the political groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U53	That's right, everyone can speak up! True!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U54	Thanks for specifying that! I represent my opinion. The previous speaker just said it's very sad. It's not sad! That's good. Some things need to be straightened out. For some reason, of course, no one believes this, the merchants have come up with the idea that alcohol-free beer is from the devil and that it is necessary to equalise it with alcohol. We also have an energy drink from the devil, and it also needs to be likened to alcohol. It's not possible to get under 18. It's been going on for a while. I don't think the merchants themselves came up with the idea that there was some kind of alcohol-free liquid, but we don't want to sell it to anyone, including young people. This is obviously a compromise that has been made with regard to alcohol advertising. On the other hand, we say that if you're a 16-year-old person, you're big, you're judgmental. You can decide and choose a local government for us, but if a 17-and-a-half-year-old mother of two goes to her husband just to buy one bottle of energy drink, then she's still a child. Kid, wait a minute, it's time to come! Time comes, the earth and the sea will explain some. What's he talking about? We're insanely duplicitous. So let's put our feet on the ground hard for a moment, and let's say when a man is a child, from which a man is young. The Youth Work Act says that a person aged 7 to 26 is young. We have raised questions about how this happens when I take the lead in paying for a living: to what extent a person is a child, from where to young. A good coworker, Riina Sikkut, said that perhaps we should be guided by the practice of the social system. The child health centre has been adopted until the age of 14. From that point on, the child could be considered as a young child. We now have age limits of 18, 16 and 14. It actually seems humiliating to young people to tell a 17-year-old that you're still a child. Remember your 16 or 15 years of age how it felt! Today, in this Chamber, we are discussing whether or not we are giving them this right of citizenship. It's a good way to straighten this out. In terms of participation in NGOs, this issue has actually arisen. Our public initiative, however, has already been squirmed. Everyone keeps doing a popular initiative on the website of the People's Initiative. For example, the kindergarten needs a bit of sand in the sandbox, 23 support sounds are picked on it, and then it is put on the table of the local government, that is the will of the people. No, it's not! In this Chamber, we reach a position, even through this committee, from which point of view a person is young. I think a person who's 14 years old is young. "I'm thirteen years old" was a theater show and it was about 13-year-olds. Well, what are those babies, 13 years old, talking about what happens when they're young in a year? We, however, have such an everlasting status as a child. When a baby baby is born, she's a child-child, and then she's about to be of age. In the meantime, he can, of course, get a driver's license, may join one of the Defence League's organisations, of course, you can vote to choose a local government. Let's set some values! Can you make it in eight days? It's coming! Even in less time, if we sit down and have one thing: it is will. If we have the will to make a difference, we'll make it happen. However, if we have the will to make a distinction, we can make a very good distinction. I propose that a person who is 15 years old is young just to be distinguished. But when we are ready to compromise, make suggestions. I'll support you! Young people must be regarded as people of full value from the age of 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U55	Thank you. Didn't we get too spacious about this? We are currently dealing with a draft law on the implementation of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Citizens' Initiative initiated by the Government of the Republic. Can we solve the question of who is young and who is not? It's a small question. But who can have something against this debate? Indeed, not the representatives of the group, but everyone can speak. Henn Põllamaas, please! Hanno Pevkur wants to ask you something about the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U56	I would have liked to have said a line. Since Mr Kruusimäe mentioned me right at the beginning of his speech, I would just like to say one sentence for the sake of the verbatim: in my opinion, comparing the right to sign in support of the citizens' initiative with the right to buy alcohol is not the most appropriate one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U57	Thank you. But let us somehow try to narrow this debate within the limits of this draft. Mr. Fieldace, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U58	Thank you. Undoubtedly, the world is changing and young people are changing. It is likely that today's 18-year-old young person, or even younger, knows about world affairs and how different processes take place, well over 50 years or 100 years ago, a young person of 21 years. It's inevitable. The world's image has simply grown so wide because of technological advances. But there are still a lot of questions. Are young people really ready for the responsibility that voting and voting rights give them? One way or another, it really seems to be justified, but let's take this line down, but the other way around, there must still be a reasonable limit. If we don't trust young people who are under 21 to buy alcohol or go to a casino, but at the same time we give them the right to choose the Riigikogu at the age of 18 and in this way, through the MPs, to participate in deciding on important matters of national interest, then there seem to be quite large scissors here. But these scissors get even bigger when we recall a few years ago the decision to grant the right to take part in municipal elections from the age of 16. We had a very high level of support for this, and I can't tell you if it's very high, but rather strong, support for young people. They were organized, they were very active, they made contact with all the political groups of the Riigikogu, they took the floor to make this move, and the Riigikogu took this decision: 16 and 17 years of age also had the right to vote in municipal elections. But I came here to talk about a personal experience. The EKRE did not support this decision because we considered that the 16-year-olds were not sufficiently informed about the policy. They do not have sufficient interest in the majority of the issues I am talking about, there are certainly exceptions to these issues. Following the adoption of this law, I was invited to a debate with supporters and opponents of this decision. There were also representatives of these active young people who fought very ardently for this decision and who could be expected to be competent on all the issues they stand for. Sadly, the impression was the opposite. Of course, all the arguments they raised were very beautiful. But I asked them a very simple question about the local elections: suppose there is a candidate in the local government who promises you all kinds of beautiful things, and I listed them with a number of things that are not at all local authority competence, which is to be decided by the Riigikogu, suppose that this person allows you and these and third, fourth, fifth things, would you vote for him? And they were all hurrah willing to support the person who basically lied to them. In essence, he lied because these things are not local authority competence! This actually shows that if the young people who were most active, who were most ardently and loudly demanding the right to vote, in fact do not know the things of substance, it is quite unnecessary to hope that the rest of the young people who, according to polls, are not really interested in local or wider politics at all. So I find that such a lowering of the electoral and voting rights is simply not a good villa in the face of some kind of beautiful slogans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-11-21_U59	Thank you, there is no further wish for negotiations, so let us consider the negotiations to be concluded. We have the commission's proposal to interrupt the second reading of draft 74. No amendments have been tabled so far, but they can be tabled by 5.15 p.m. on 3 December. According to the letter, the second reading is interrupted. The sitting is adjourned. Thank you. Closure of the sitting at 11.16 a.m.
