ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 6th working week Tuesday session of the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to pass on drafts and enquiries? Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment held a debate at its meeting yesterday and decided to pass on two draft decisions. The first draft decision of the Riigikogu is on the removal of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Foundation Environmental Investment Centre and the appointment of new members. The second is the decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre. Both decisions stem from the law, and I hope that we will get them processed here during the spring period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U3	Thank you. There is no further request for referral of drafts or enquiries. On behalf of the Management Board, I have adopted two draft decisions, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, now the announcements. Today, after the plenary session, the next set-up meetings of the support groups will be held in this Chamber. Firstly, the support group of freedom fighters and repressed people, the converging party of Anti Poolams. Second, beekeeper support team, convener Tarmo Kruusimäe. Incoming check, please! 77 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present; no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to give his consent to the removal of the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo, and to the continuation of legal proceedings against him. Before we go to the processing of this point, I will briefly introduce the procedure. First of all, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise will report for up to 15 minutes. Then... Ladies and gentlemen, [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Attention! Then all members of the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to ask the rapporteur an oral question, which will still be one minute. The presentation of the member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo, is then up to five minutes, followed by negotiations where members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups may speak in person. After the negotiations have been concluded, the President shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. The vote shall be public. A majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the proposal and the decision of the Chamber is formalised as a decision of the Riigikogu. I guess that's all about the procedure. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions? No, it's not. Then we will go to the first item on the agenda: the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to give his consent to the removal of the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo, and to the continuation of legal proceedings against him. The waitress is Chancellor Ülle Madise. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U5	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu! In accordance with § 76 and § 139 (3) of the Constitution, I propose that the Riigikogu remove the immunity of a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo. The consent of the Riigikogu is required for the continuation of proceedings against Kalev Kallo. I stress that making this proposal and possibly withdrawing the immunity of an ambassador does not mean that a member of the Riigikogu is guilty of a crime, nor does it suspend his powers as a member of the Riigikogu. The term of office of a member of the Riigikogu ends when he is convicted by the court. As required by the law, I will read out what the member of the Riigikogu is accused of. Kalev Kallo has been charged with committing the following crimes. First, by Hillar Teder to Edgar Savisaar for bribery (KarS 296 (1)). Secondly, helping Edgar Savisaar to take bribes to a large extent (KarS 294 (2) (4) and in addition to the reference to the role of the accused in this case, § 22 (3)). Thirdly, helping Hillar Teder to pay bribes to a large extent (§ 298 (2) (3) of the Penal Code and there is also a reference to participation in this crime). Fourthly, by Hillar Teder at Edgar Savisaare's representation to the Estonian Centre Party, helping to make a large extent a forbidden donation and helping to receive a forbidden donation (§ 4021 (1) of the Penal Code and again a reference to partial status). The large amount indicated in § 121 of the Penal Code means a sum of money between EUR 40000 and EUR 400000. A more detailed description of the crimes against Kalev Kallo is given in the application of the State Attorney General attached to the written proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. The hearings on this matter began at the Harju County Court in June 2017. The charges were brought against eight natural and one legal persons. To date, one person has been convicted in the settlement procedure and two people have been brought to an end in criminal proceedings. The proceedings against the remaining persons will continue and the following hearings will be scheduled for 16. June to June, including In accordance with § 3826 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Chancellor of Justice shall, if necessary, examine the material of the criminal file but shall not assess the evidence collected. The Chancellor of Justice may not make a proposal to the Riigikogu and return the request to the State Attorney General on the basis only if the prosecution of a member of the Riigikogu or the continuation of legal proceedings against him would clearly be unfounded. The Chancellor of Justice assesses the materials as a whole, does not take the place of the prosecutor's office or court. The Chancellor of Justice assesses the material as a whole in order to conclude whether there has been abuse of executive power, whether there are obvious political or other inappropriate motives in this court proceedings, whether a person is being persecuted when expressed in the language of the people. Honourable Riigikogu! The examination of this case material and the surveillance file, including the authorisation of surveillance activities, did not reveal any evidence that would call into question the grounds put forward for the continuation of the criminal proceedings. There is no reason to suspect that the initiation of criminal proceedings or the prosecution of Kalev Kallo in particular would have taken place on some inappropriate grounds, such as political motives. Once again: When proposing to the Riigikogu, the Chancellor of Justice does not assess the existence of the accused's guilt or its proof. Neither does the Riigikogu decide today about Kalev Kallo's guilt if it agrees to continue legal proceedings against him in the circumstances described above. In accordance with § 22 (1) of the Constitution, no person may be considered guilty of a criminal offence until a conviction has taken effect. The withdrawal of the immunity of an ambassador will only provide an opportunity to continue the trial against Kalev Kallo and to find out the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U6	Thank you, dear waitress. The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you. The member of the Riigikogu now has the opportunity to speak on request. Please, five minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U7	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The withdrawal of parliamentary immunity has been discussed in this Chamber before; this is not the first case. There are cases where, alongside the ambassador's work, they want to defend themselves in court, share their time and attention. Today I ask for the opportunity to concentrate on the job I have been elected to. I have been in the middle of this process regrettably for three years and eight months. It has been a stressful time that inevitably leaves a mark on man, his family, and his work. The people of Estonia have trusted me to be a member of the Riigikogu and I wish that my most important aim would be to represent and work for the development of the Estonian state. I want to contribute my time, knowledge and experience to my full ambassador's work, leaving aside a process that has already sent me too long. For this reason, I hope that the integrity of the ambassador will enable me to have a rest of work for the duration of my term of office. The people who chose me knew I was involved in the process, but they did. I have said this before, and I assure you again here too, that I feel that I have complied with all the laws of the Republic of Estonia, but I have always been willing to cooperate with both the prosecutor's office and the court to find out the truth. I do not want an exception that leaves me without the opportunity to defend myself, on the contrary, but the integrity of the ambassador would give me a little more time to do the undisturbed work that people expect me to do. In any case, if the hearing were to continue after the end of the mandate, there is no risk that it will expire or somehow disappear. Ladies and gentlemen, I respect the Chancellor of Justice's proposal and your decision, but I hope that you will give me the opportunity to work with you without interruption and without any additional stress. I would like to continue to defend myself after we have taken important decisions together and have contributed to the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U8	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu want to negotiate? I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Then we go to the voting procedure. Honourable Riigikogu, I shall vote on whether you are in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal, and there were no votes against or abstentions. The Riigikogu decided to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U9	Let's go! Today's second item is the first reading of Riigikogu's decision to appoint "Kaupo Paali as a Member of the Supreme Court" by President of the Supreme Court Villu Kõve. Please present the Chair of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U10	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This question concerning the appointment of a member of the Supreme Court was dealt with by the Constitutional Committee on 6 May. Indrek Saar, Andrei Korobeinik, Hanno Pevkur, Oudekki Loone, Paul Puustusmaa, Taavi Rõivas, Vilja Toomas and here the speaker took part in the committee meeting. The President of the Supreme Court, Mr Villu Kõve, introduced the candidate and since the candidate has already met all the political groups, there were no more questions in the committee. The support of the new candidate seemed to be very consensual, but it was nevertheless proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 14 May, or today, to appoint a rapporteur here and to propose to the Bureau that, in accordance with § 117 (3) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, Kaupo Paal should present a presentation to the assembly for up to 5 minutes. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U11	Thank you. Each member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask one oral question to each of the rapporteurs during the discussion on this item. Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I now request a speech chair for a candidate for a Supreme Court member, Kaupo Paali!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U12	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Riigikogu! It is a great honour for me to stand before you here today in discussing this item on the agenda. However, my presence is very exceptional, because, as a rule, a written judgment should be the way in which the judge communicates with the public. A written judgment should be a self-portrait of the judge, in which he presents his views and beliefs. The judge is not known to be a political judge. The judge does not have his own political program. The judge is not the legislator. The judge shall rule on a narrow, specific dispute brought before the court on the basis of the laws adopted by the legislature. But today I want to share with you, honourable Riigikogu, one question that I believe is most important in civil justice. Of course, there is a widespread saying among people that the courts are slowly grinding. And to win in court, you should hire an expensive lawyer. Some of us have had the phrase that I'm gonna sue you in the worst of anger. It could be the worst thing I've ever wanted for my enemy. We can read in newspapers every day about dozens of cases where someone is convicted or acquitted. Most cases dealt with by the court are civil cases. These are what I have been dealing with in the Tallinn Circuit Court for the last more than ten years in terms of law and before that ten years in legislative practice. Civil matters are the ones where a normal person goes to court when he has so much concern that he doesn't get help from anywhere else. In civil matters, the court is not a punisher or a repressive body. In civil matters, the purpose of the court is to help people. Our goal is that every person who comes out the door of the courthouse will go out with the knowledge that if he ever needs to go to court again, the court will delve into his concern, make the problem clear to the end, be humane, sympathetic and adequately defend his rights. In order to achieve this objective, something can certainly be done by the legislator, but the main one who can guarantee it is the judiciary that understands the law. That is the standard by which I can decide whether or not I have succeeded as a judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U13	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Riho Breivel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U14	On the previous point, Parliament today took away the immunity of Kalev Kallo. This does not concern your duties as a future member of the Supreme Court, but what do you think personally: is it still right that we take away the integrity of an ambassador, even though it is not certain that he is guilty?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U15	Thank you. Indeed, my field is civil disputes, and when I start working in the Supreme Court, it will be in the Civil Chamber. But undoubtedly, criminal justice is an area where people's fundamental rights are under considerable pressure. That is why, of course, every criminal procedure must be taken very carefully, not just those that are being carried out against the Members of Parliament. This must be the case for every human being.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U16	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U17	Thank you. Honourable Member of the Supreme Court! My question also does not concern civil matters, rather constitutional matters, but I think it is appropriate to ask you this question as a candidate for a member of the Supreme Court. I have also asked other candidates for a member of the Supreme Court. In fact, from time to time, Estonia has raised the question of whether a constitutional court would be needed in our country. As we know, in some countries, such as Germany, but also the countries of Eastern Europe, it exists. There is no such thing in the Nordic countries. They can do without it. What is your personal position: would Estonia need a constitutional court or would the current judicial system resolve constitutional disputes well enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U18	Thank you. In fact, it is a political decision that is within the competence of the legislator. If the legislator had to decide in one way or another, Estonia would certainly be able to work with both the current system and the separate Constitutional Court. The fact that Estonia is relatively small should certainly be taken into account when deciding on this issue. As a very high and important body, the Constitutional Court would need very respectable, very competent judges to resolve these matters. However, if the legislator, when considering all pros and cons, were to decide to set up a separate constitutional court, then our constitutional order would certainly work on this too. The validity of the current Constitution has shown that the system that we currently have is actually working.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U19	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Member of the Supreme Court! I have a simple question for you. Before taking up this office, you must have been well informed and thought about what awaits you there. What will be the greatest challenge for you in this profession, both professionally and simply as a human being?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U21	Thank you. Having so far looked at the Supreme Court from the circuit court, working as a circuit judge, the greatest challenge seems to me to be to be worthy of a member of the Supreme Court. I try to do this job well enough and make prudent decisions. Whether I can do that is the greatest fear of taking up this job.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-14_U22	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Do the political groups have a wish to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. We are going to the final vote and I would like to remind you that voting in the personal elections is secret. Honourable Riigikogu! Pursuant to § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, I will put to the final vote the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint "Kaupo Paali as a member of the Supreme Court" submitted by the President of the Supreme Court, Villu Kõve. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, no one was against or impartial. The draft has been adopted as a decision. By the Riigikogu, we wish Kaupo Paal the strength to work in a responsible post of member of the Supreme Court. Thank you, colleagues. Today's session of the Riigikogu is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.28 a.m.
