ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 12th working week. It is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries for an initiative. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U2	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, We express our distrust to the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Estonia, Mart Helme, regarding the personal attack on the Finnish Prime Minister, Sanna Marin. The Minister of the Interior has damaged the relations between Estonia and Finland and the reputation of the Estonian state, the inferiority of women and people from a different social background. Mart Helme's conduct clearly shows that he is not fit to bear the responsibility of a member of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U3	Thank you. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! Yesterday, the National Defence Committee held a discussion and decided to initiate the draft Act amending § 19 of the Act on the status of a member of the Riigikogu. The purpose of this draft is to impose on each member of the National Defence Commission the obligation to submit the documents that are subject to the security clearance within two months of his appointment as a member of the National Defence Commission. This change will not lead to anything retroactively, as as of 18 November, all today's members of the National Defence Committee have submitted corresponding documents. However, since the composition of the XII Riigikogu has proposed that all members of the National Defence Committee should undergo a security check, and it has been written in'reasonable time', today's National Defence Committee finds that'reasonable time' must be furnished for the future, so that everyone can understand it in the same way when they start working in the National Defence Committee and that the functioning of the National Defence Committee is guaranteed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U5	Thank you. There are no more requests for referrals of drafts and enquiries. I have adopted a draft of a motion of distrust and a draft of a law. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please check your presence. 93 members of the Riigikogu registered for the post, there is no 8.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. Today's first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to ask Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U7	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission initiated the draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act for the second reading of 97. As a reminder, the first reading took place on 5 November. One amendment was tabled by the deadline of 19 November and made by Jürgen Ligi, a member of the Riigikogu. Proposals also came from Eesti Pank and the Government of the Republic. The Commission discussed these proposals on 3, 10 and 16 December. Representatives of the Bank of Estonia and the Government of the Republic attended the meeting on 3 December. At its meeting on 10 December, the commission took the necessary procedural decisions for the second reading of the draft. At its regular and extraordinary meeting on 16 December, the Commission specified the proposed amendments to the draft. At its meeting on 10 December, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda, including on 17 December, to propose that the second reading of the draft should be suspended, and if asked why to interrupt, the reason is that all amendments to the Eesti Pank Act must also be notified to the European Central Bank, and once we have received a reply, we can proceed with this draft and propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 6 January 2020. At the meeting of the Commission on 3 December, Meelis Mark, a lawyer from the Legal Service, participated as a representative of Eesti Pank and Thomas Honourable, Head of the Financial Markets Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, presented the Government's opinion on the draft. Meelis Mark introduced Eesti Pank's opinion on the draft law amending the Eesti Pank Act and noted that Eesti Pank would like the draft to be more legal. The draft initiated leaves open, in particular, whether the representatives of the political groups who appoint the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank are members of the political groups or other persons representing the interests of the political groups. These issues were discussed in the form of questions and answers, and the Commission made consensual amendments to the draft, which I would like to read out. First of all, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank may be appointed for a maximum of two consecutive terms of office, and a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank may be appointed for a maximum of two consecutive terms of office. The third amendment is that the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank are appointed by the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Monetary Commission. Fourthly, the Riigikogu Group will submit to the Monetary Committee, no later than four months after the registration of the political group, the name of the member of the Riigikogu representing the political group in the Board of Eesti Pank, together with his written consent and written confirmation that he meets the requirements of this Act for a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank shall submit to the Monetary Commission, no later than four months after the entry into force of the decision to appoint him, the names of the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, together with their written consent and written confirmation that they comply with the requirements laid down in this Act for a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. If the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has not submitted candidates for the new composition of the Supervisory Board to the Riigikogu within the deadline and in the manner specified in the Act, or if the list of candidates for the composition of the Supervisory Board does not find the support of the majority of the Riigikogu, the Riigikogu will appoint a new formation on the proposal of the Monetary Commission, taking into account the requirements laid down in that Act. The mandate of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank begins when the decision to appoint qualified members of the Supervisory Board comes into force and ends when the term of office of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank expires. The mandate of a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank begins when the decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board comes into force and ends when the powers of his member of the Riigikogu stop or end. At the end of the term of office of a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, the mandate of a member of the Supervisory Board will be extended until the decision to appoint a new member of the Supervisory Board takes effect. At the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, the mandate of the member of the Supervisory Board of the Riigikogu will be extended until the decision to appoint members of the new Riigikogu to the Supervisory Board of the Riigikogu becomes effective. The Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has a quorum when more than half of the members of the Supervisory Board take part in the meeting. editorial applications are also important. The mandate of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank appointed before the entry into force of the Act adopted by this Act expires on the expiry of his term of office. The mandate of the members of the Supervisory Board appointed before the entry into force of this Act will be extended until the decision to appoint the new Supervisory Board appointed immediately after the entry into force of this Act enters into force. The provisions of this Act shall apply to the Chairperson and members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank appointed after the entry into force of this Act. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank in office at the time of entry into force of this Act shall be deemed to be appointed for the first term of office. At the time of the entry into force of this Act, a member of the Supervisory Board acting as a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank shall be deemed to be the first member of the Supervisory Board within the meaning of this Act. The political group of the Riigikogu provides the information specified in this Act and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank will also provide the relevant information one month after the entry into force of this Act. If the President of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank has not submitted the information mentioned in subsection 8 (12) of this Act for the time specified in the Act or if the list of candidates for the new composition of the Supervisory Board does not receive the support of the majority of the Riigikogu, the members of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank shall appoint the Riigikogu on the proposal of the Monetary Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U8	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions too. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U9	Thank you. The reason for this draft was that the Riigikogu was excluded from the appointment of the Supervisory Board of the Bank, but now it turned out that this draft was prepared by the Riigikogu presidency. The Finance Committee had to figure out what was actually discussed in the presidency, and now the Riigikogu must listen to this long description. Tell the Riigikogu what an injunction has been made. How long is it compared to the current bill? Is it more or less similar, or is it longer than before? Have the rights of the Riigikogu expanded or narrowed down?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U10	Thank you, Jürgen, for a good question. But I must admit with sadness that these proposals were made by the same committee as you, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and yesterday we introduced these proposals also in the board of directors and in the parent council. This law clearly gives the Riigikogu greater powers both in determining and deciding the members of the Supervisory Board, as Eesti Pank is subject to parliamentary supervision. That is why it also says here that the political groups present their representative as a member of the council and very clearly it is the political groups, because the parties are not supervising Eesti Pank, but the Riigikogu. Supervision takes place through the political groups of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U11	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Five amendments have also been tabled on the draft, and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by Jürgen Ligi, a member of the Riigikogu. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. The third amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. The fourth amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. And the fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the position of the commission: take full account. We have examined the amendments, the proposal of the lead committee is to interrupt the second reading of the 97th draft. The second reading has been interrupted and I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 6 January 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, with this we have passed today's first item on the agenda and we can move forward. Honourable Riigikogu! At today's session, the Government of the Republic wishes to discuss the written request made by 46 members of the Riigikogu to express censure on the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Therefore, on the basis of § 56 (1) (2) and (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu has added this request to the agenda of today's sitting to the discussion. This will take place as a second item, i.e. after the completion of the 97 discussions on the draft law amending the Law on Eesti Pank initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, i.e. after the item that we have just passed. In order for us to be able to discuss this motion of censure, I will take the chairman's break 30 minutes so that all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the text of the motion of censure. Ladies and gentlemen, Director's break 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U12	Honourable Riigikogu and ladies and gentlemen. Let's continue with today's agenda, the chairman's break is over. Today's second item is the written request made by 46 members of the Riigikogu for the disclosure of censure to the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. The rapporteur is Kaja Kallas, a member of the Riigikogu, and the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme also receives the floor. I will briefly present the way this item is being dealt with. First, the representative of the initiators of censure will be speaking for up to 20 minutes and then the minister will be speaking, as well as for up to 20 minutes. Every member of the Riigikogu will then have the opportunity to ask the minister up to two oral questions, followed by negotiations between the representatives of the political groups. Finally, there will be a final vote, which will be public. The Minister has been distrusted when there is a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu in favour of the publication of censure. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the processing of this item and I would like to ask Mr Kallas, Member of the Riigikogu, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, For the second time, we have been forced to distrust the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. This time, it seems that the people who are insulting in Estonia have run out, which is why we had to go after the Finnish Government and the Prime Minister there. I hate to repeat what Mart Helme said here, but for the sake of the verbatim and history, I still have to do it. In his Sunday radio program, the Minister of the Interior announced the following: "What has now happened in Finland, well, it still raises hair. It raises hair, and I say that the next Prime Minister of Finland is Jussi Halla-aho, because something as irrational as it is now taking place in Finland has probably not happened there for several centuries. [---] This normal country here is a number of parties trying to screw us up to make Estonia the same. Like now, very funny things stand before this Finnish government. And I would still recall Vladimir Ulyanov-Lenin saying that any kitchen girl could become a minister, or how he said it. Now we can see how a salesgirl has become Prime Minister and how some other street activist and uneducated person have also become a member of the government. [--] Now we can actually, to some extent, see how the historic revenge of the reds takes place on the whites, the red ones who wanted to liquidate the Finnish state at the time, are now in power, and now desperately trying to liquidate the Finnish state, to make Finland some sort of Euro Province, which, perhaps, bears the name of the territory of Suomi or Finland, but which, in fact, lies entirely behind the ideological philosophy of the end of this so-called fukuyamalic history. ' Even if I wanted to, what I heard could not be accepted as recognition for Finland, the Finnish Government and the Finnish Prime Minister. The Finnish Prime Minister himself, the Finnish politicians, the press and the common people treat this as an insult. And at first, the leader of the Estonian government also saw an insult. Is this all random? Did Mart Helme accidentally depreciate the Finnish state with a hot head? Is it now that an unscathed abject excuse has been sneaked into action, in which there is much more of everyone else's inconclusive arrogance than the remorse and understanding of what has actually happened, can we now leave everyone behind without concern, as Jüri Ratas suggests? Do we really believe that if we hide behind our back all the lies and insults that Mart Helme has promised himself, after all, we will see as the Minister of the Interior a person who will suddenly respect the dignity of our friends, allies and Estonia itself? Do we really need to view Mart Helme in the way that Vladimir Žirinovsky, a clown in Russia, no longer taken seriously, according to the recommendations of the President of the Fatherland? But a good colleague! Zirinovsky is not part of the Russian government. Even in Russia, scumbags like Zirinovsky are kept away from the government. Do we really not think, then, that by giving the Minister in a very important position the free power to ridicule himself, we will significantly reduce the credibility of both the Estonian Government and the Estonian state as a whole, not only in the eyes of our friends and allies, but also in the eyes of Estonia's own people? We humiliate the Estonian state. We could read here the attacks by Mart Helme on members of the Riigikogu, attacks by different groups of people, insults to the right and to the left, but we find that by the personal attack of the Finnish Government alone and the Finnish Prime Minister, Sanna Marin, he has already damaged Estonian-Finnish relations and the reputation of the Estonian state, humiliated women and mocked simple workers. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We all understand in this Chamber why Jüri Ratas does not have red lines for the government, especially in a situation where the Coalition's survival is at risk. But we are not evaluating the coalition or this government here today. Today we are talking about a minister who has obviously done damage to the Estonian state. Mart Helme is not the first politician who is not fit for office as a minister or who has given up on his own, but who has the capacity to lead a political party. It's not up to us. What is definitely our decision, however, is the message that we give both the Estonian and Finnish people about the credibility and credibility of their country. Two things can no longer be trusted at the same time, Mart Helme cannot be trusted and respect the dignity of the Estonian state. You have to choose between restoring dignity and sinking into even deeper shame. A member of the Government of the Republic of Estonia cannot be a person who lacks the slightest self-criticism, but who, on the other hand, feels a morbid hatred of the most different kind, especially of women. I very much hope that today the voice of conscience and responsibility will be stronger than doubts in this Chamber. Life has repeatedly shown that by giving a finger to a person whose goal is to provoke and escalate conflicts, you will eventually lose the hand and not just the hand. At best, it may be a game for the provocator, a matter of life for the people and the state at worst, because no plan B will compensate for the loss that Mart Helme's actions have caused to Estonian security through the internal division of Estonian society and the gradual isolation of foreign friends. The Estonian people have not given such a mandate to any of us, not to any minister. That is why we see no other option than to distrust the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U14	Thank you. Now I'm going to ask the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Yeah, that kind of déjà-vu feeling is.. the charges are the same, the arguments are the same. The arguments have been taken from the ceiling. The security of Estonia has been damaged? I do not understand that Estonia's security has been damaged. There is nowhere to be seen that some NATO allies would have announced that Estonia would be expelled from NATO. The representatives of the Finnish embassy have not thrown themselves into cramps, although they believe that there should have been something in Estonia that offends Finland, forcing Finland to distance from Estonia. All these charges have been designed, and all these charges have been very much determined by the media. Thank you especially to the Estonian National Broadcasting, which actually belongs not to the propaganda of this broadcast, but to the Estonian people, but they have not understood it, but they think they are working in some sort of universe. Thank you for blowing up this whole scandal! Of course, in quotes, "thank you." But no tree will grow to heaven, so neither will you infinitely care about your lies. But it was such a lyrical distraction. I really don't want to be here at all today the way I say evil, because we still have a Christmas season. A Christmas peace has been declared, and I will try to keep this Christmas peace. I will simply disprove in my little introductory speech the lies that have just been said from this remote control. One lie is that I disparage simple workers. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I think there are few people in this hall who have thrown as much manure as I have, who have dug and plowed so many beds and farmland, as I, who have planted so many hay, stacked them up to the animals as I have. I'm afraid there aren't people here who would have built as many houses as I would, who would have hand-shaped logs to be natural, not from a sawmill, who would have built basements and all kinds of other household buildings with their own hands. I'm a hard worker who doesn't crucify in front of any job, and I know what a simple job is. I started a simple job when I was a 14-year-old boy, because my parents were wealthy people, but they said, "Boy, just so you know what the value of money is, you're starting to work low on the ground. ' And I've been working low on the ground. To blame me for not knowing what a simple person's life is, to blame me for being unworthy of doing a simple job, is just ridiculous. It's designed, and it's propaganda, and frankly, you should be ashamed of this lie. Now women. I'm supposed to ridicule, humiliate women. My husband's sitting back there on the bench, and I think he might tell you that I've never ridiculed him, mistreated him, mistreated him. I think that my daughters may say the same thing, I have never ridiculed them, depreciated them, mistreated them. I could sing you a few beautiful songs from my youth dedicated to the beautiful ladies I've liked. So don't talk such nonsense about any understatement of women. I do not share feminist, marufeminist views. I do not share any kind of zipper policy, any kind of quota policy, according to which people should be allocated to certain positions on the basis of gender. I really don't! If it means disparaging women to any liberal, they think at their own level of corruption. Now Finland. I have never humiliated or offended the Finnish people. Please make a difference! Does the ideological disagreement with any government, some politicians, have anything directly to do with the Finnish people? I think I know Finnish history better than most people in this hall. And I also know the history of Estonia. All of you know that in December 1918, just during Christmas, the Estonian front was breaking. The Estonian front was under Kehra, the Estonian front was 30 km away from Tallinn. And then the Finns came. Major Kalm and Major Ekstrom, when I remember the names correctly, marched off the ship, made a festive parade march on Town Hall Square, went straight to the front and brought a break in the War of Independence. Are you saying that I don't remember not appreciating the fact that I am not grateful to the Finns for this all my life? If that's what you think, you're wrong. Do you think I don't remember, but there are plenty of people in this hall who don't remember how each Finn developed his own Estonian at the end of the 1980s? The Finnish Government did not support Estonia's restoration of independence. The papers show that Finland's then president, former Prime Minister, was not on the wave of supporting the independence of Estonia and other Baltic countries. It's a government, but not a Finnish people. The Finnish people supported Estonia, the Estonian people in every way, received Estonians, gave them gifts, came to Estonia, brought something with them even the smallest things, coffee packages, anything. They helped Estonians, they felt that this was now a moment where they can give a small and small boost to Estonia's independence. You think I don't remember that? Humiliate the Finnish people? Shame on you! Shame on you guys! That's a lie! But what is the truth? The truth is that I cannot agree with the course of the current Finnish government, its ideological platform. I am entitled to say this both as a private individual and as a member of the Government of the Republic of Estonia, which does not mean that we should pick a fight with Finland. Basically, I've given all my explanations. Basically, I don't think of you as one person sitting in front of you who has called me and our party members post-Soviet pollution. We have political differences, that is normal, otherwise we would be in one party. But use words like that? Somehow no one's been ringing the alarm, that's acceptable. It's perfectly acceptable for all those who signed up to distrust me. There's post-Soviet scum in front of you. If that's how you feel about me, then that's how you feel about me. That's not how I feel about you. That's not how I feel about you. I think you are my colleagues in the Riigikogu. We have political differences, that is normal and that is how it should be, because otherwise we would have only one party. Now, another person has written derogatoryly about how I worked in the Marxism-Leninism Literature and Pioneer as a Propagandist in the magazine. Another lie! For a short time, I worked in the publishing house of the Estonian Book, to which I had been assigned from the university, leaving it already before the end of the deadline. I worked in the Pioneer magazine as an editor of the Literary Department and delivered as much international literature as it was possible under those circumstances. Again, understand the things that occurred before you were born into this world, and do not throw propaganda lies! This is not good for the health of political discussion. That's all I have to say to you. It's obvious that you friends want to overthrow this government. You can imagine that it is good for Estonia to live only under your leadership. It may be good for you to live, but Estonia does not. I'm telling you, my dear friends, here and here you are, like the Bourbons who came to power after the restoration and knew nothing better to do with power than what they had done before. It was said in these cases that they had not forgotten anything and that they had not learned anything. I see you haven't forgotten anything either, but you haven't learned anything either. And now you think you're coming back to power to create a new generation of Estonians. You come to do exactly the fine-tuning and stagnation you've done so far. Estonia is better off without you. You do not understand one of the most important things: the world has entered the paradigm of a new policy, and that is what I represent. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you. A commendable round of applause from the Socialists, who would also like to have a government of any kind and at the cost of any principles. Friends! Christmas is approaching. We eat gingerbread, drink glow wine and enjoy life. But I think you have a lot of insulting questions now.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U16	Thank you. There are indeed a number of questions for you. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U17	Thank you, good chairman of the meeting. Honourable! What you're saying is, of course, extremely embarrassing. Again, you stand before us like a sinner, a rafter who knows he's unpunished. You know in advance that your coalition partners are repressing their conscience and responsibility for Estonia and giving you a new opportunity to harm the national interests of Estonia. You have brought into Estonian foreign policy the mentality of a martial fighter who is intriguing in an international image. You are an ambassador, this title was awarded to you by President Lennart Meri in 1995. Probably today, Lennart Meri, known as a great Finnish friend, would do anything to take that title back from you. I don't have any questions for you. There's no point in asking you anything. However, I have a specific recommendation for you: stop embarrassing Estonia and step back from your seat!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall, we have a round of questions, the round of negotiations is after the questions. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U19	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of the Interior! You're not a paradigm. In the circus, the profession you hold is called a little different. But what do I want to ask you? This weekend, you insulted the Prime Minister of Finland, but this week you have come to be very rude to another woman. I am thinking of the journalist for the Estonian National Broadcasting who wanted to ask you a question and who you rejected by hand. Very unmanly, very unworthy behavior. My question is, are you willing to apologize to this journalist here and now for his rude behavior? Or, on the contrary, this press push last night you and Prime Minister Ratas were celebrating behind the champagne glasses, from which we have all seen very eloquent photographs?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U20	I told you there'd be a lot of blaming questions. The answer is simple: it is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U21	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U22	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We all heard that, in fact, you are the strongest worker in Estonia. That's very nice. In recent days, very many people have shared information about all the interesting professions they have held, and it is interesting to read. But I would take one step forward, because as a voter, I have actually always wanted people to lead the country, who have done real work and who know what it means to cope with a small salary, who know what a servant's position is. So it's valuable. Somehow, on the weekend, you deplored the fact that a shopkeeper has become the Prime Minister of Finland. If you are talking about a paradigm shift, I would now simply ask, in the interests of educating Members, what could be the list of positions that are not suitable as prime ministers in Estonia. And is there any way to rehabilitate yourself when you have held this profession, for example by purchasing the manor, and then qualifying for the position of a member of the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U23	If you have an appetite for the manor, open the portals, they are a good number for sale now, and some are pretty cheap. Take and buy the estates left in the ruins, repair them, take the bank loan, or use your savings, put your hands on yourself, as I have done, and there is no problem at all. You're gonna be a landlord, too. You see, there's a manor here who's selling his estate right now. Buy it from him, he's looking for a buyer. But the question was about doing work. I didn't disparage any of the workers. On the contrary, I have said that I recognise the fact that such a low social status can be brought to the top of politics through learning and hard work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U24	Lauri West Forest, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U25	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! I have this question to ask you whether you would prefer to live in the country where the saleswoman becomes Prime Minister or rather in the country where the Kremlin agent becomes Minister of the Interior. And just so you don't misunderstand me, this question wasn't meant to be an insult, it was meant to be a credit for a job well done.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U26	I simply refuse to answer such a stupid question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U27	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U28	Mart Helme! Did our Prime Minister and Prime Minister of Finland misunderstand that you actually apologized to them? Today's performance forces me to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U29	I've never been to their conversation. I don't know exactly what they were saying, I don't know who understood what and how. But once again, this narrative is caused by journalistic interpretations and false emphasis. When you look at this line, this line touched the future of Finland and my very clear disagreement with the left-liberal agenda. It was actually in focus, not some other thing, like our press has raised the shield. Our press, and you're always saying the same thing here, is trying to shift focus and is doing it very consciously, quite clearly politically, in order to damage and embarrass me. But I don't think it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U30	Indrek Saar, please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U31	I really do have a procedural proposal. Given that a number of young people are present in this Chamber, in addition to the politicians and journalists who have already been tempered, and Mart Helme does not really understand where he has fallen into as a member of the government, damaging the reputation of the Estonian government, the reputation of the Estonian state and the interests of the Estonian state, and not accepting the basic rules of courtesy, I have a proposal to stop asking questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U32	It was indeed a procedural proposal, but as President, I will continue to ask and answer questions in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. The questioners have the right to ask questions, hopefully they are cultural and limited to asking, rather than merely making an assessment. So I have a request to the questioners: be questioners in the round of questions, not just the givers of assessments. I hope that the Minister will try to respond with goodwill and substance to all the substantive cultural questions. So let's get on with the questions if there are any. Thank you, Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U33	Great, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U34	I'm opening negotiations. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiations and we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the distrust of the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Please take a stand and vote. 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of censure, 42 against and no abstentions. The Riigikogu did not express distrust for the Minister of the Interior Mart Helme. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the second item on today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U35	We can proceed with the third item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group. I request Priit Sibula, a member of the Riigikogu as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U36	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U37	Ladies and gentlemen, attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U38	I would like to introduce you to the draft Act on Amendment of the Medicines Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group. [[Breathing.]] I'm sorry! I had to run.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U39	Yeah. Excuse me, honorable waitress. Urmas Kruuse, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U40	The waitress breathes, is unable to present the text. Why don't we take a five-minute break?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U41	How's the waitress feeling?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U42	I'll be fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U43	He'll be fine.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U44	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U45	All right, let's keep going. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U46	This bill has two objectives. One of them is to abolish ownership restrictions relating to the keeping of pharmacies, which, if this draft is adopted, can be owned by any natural or legal person, including a wholesaler of medicinal products, who has the will and the means and means to do so. The second objective is that in larger municipalities, housing units with more than 20,000 inhabitants can no longer be considered as "branch pharmacies', but must be transformed into "general pharmacies'. That is how the initiators described this purpose in the explanatory memorandum. I must admit that the draft has failed to read the wording, and it may be mistaken. The initiator certainly has no intention of reducing the requirements and number of general pharmacies at the expense of rare pharmacies. On the contrary. As I said, the initiators aim to turn branch pharmacies into general pharmacies in larger cities. The share of general pharmacies should therefore increase after the adoption of the draft. If necessary, these changes must be introduced between the two readings so that the will of the initiators is unambiguously clear in the draft. These are, in short, the two main objectives of the draft. As we know, today's law on 1 April 2020 introduces restrictions on ownership, under which the pharmacy can only be owned by a pharmacist. As of 1 December, all the requirements for entry into force on 1 April 2020 shall be met by the property of the pharmacist, the lack of dominant influence on the wholesaler and, in large cities, by 180 pharmacies, i.e. 36%. Non-compliant pharmacies account for 318 or 64%. There are 355 main pharmacies and 143 branch pharmacies from 498 pharmacies. The initiators were forced to act in a situation where after three and a half months the circa 2/3 of pharmacies did not meet the requirements laid down by law. Throughout this period, no analysis has been carried out on how it is intended to ensure that pharmacies do not have to be closed because they do not comply with the requirements of the current law. At the beginning of the application of the law, the Competition Authority pointed out that the measures mentioned in the Act do not contribute to solving problems and that new problems arise. The so-called tank dealers were warned of the emergence of pharmacy owners. On June 6th 2018, the story "Prevention came true: the formalisation of pharmacies to tank pharmacists began' appeared on the Estonian National Broadcasting Portal, which said: "The dangers of the Pharmacy Reform, for which the Riigikogu was repeatedly warned when adopting the new law, have materialised. This spring, the first pharmacy licences were formally re-registered to pharmacists, but the newly created pharmacy companies are managed by the same lawyer who is involved in both Lithuanian drug companies and the Lithuanian pharmacy chain Euroapteek. ' On 11 June 2018, the Reform Party Group tabled a draft on the Riigikogu agenda, which began to bear the number 656 and the objective of which was formulated by a good colleague at first reading held in this Chamber on 24 October last year as follows: 'In short, this draft has two major objectives. First, not to limit property. The pharmaceutical market is already over-regulated by the state and it is not worth setting out exactly who may be the owner of a pharmacy. This restriction should not be imposed by the State. The state imposes restrictions, as I said, on equipment, sellers, outlets and prices. The restriction on ownership is certainly not justified in any way. The big and fundamental starting point for this draft is, in fact, the position of the Competition Authority. The Competition Authority has stated that a restriction on ownership is not justified. The Ministry of Justice, which has formed an opinion on this draft, is also of the same opinion. ' This draft passed the first reading in Parliament and fell out of the procedure following the end of the Riigikogu's mandate. The government did not support this draft, but the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, disagreed; he also relied in his arguments on the positions of the Competition Authority. I quote from the letter from the Competition Authority of 18 June, which supports the idea of a draft initiated by the Reform Party: 'From adoption until today, the aim of the Pharmacy Reform has not been clarified, but it has been confirmed that the transition to pharmacies under the effective control of pharmacists and the exclusion of pharmacies from their association with pharmaceutical wholesalers is in reality extremely difficult. In addition, the requirement to dispose of pharmacies and restrictions on establishment are undoubtedly accompanied by sharp violations of fundamental rights, as detailed in the explanatory memorandum to this draft. " The Competition Authority states that in a situation where the independence of pharmacies from wholesalers cannot be fully verified, it is reasonable to amend the pharmaceutical law and remove the restriction of competition. The quotation begins as follows: 'We wish to further clarify that according to § 42 (5) of the current pharmaceutical law, the Agency must assess, at the request of the Agency, the relationship through the dominant influence of pharmacies and wholesalers. In practice, however, this has proved problematic, as the dominant influence is relatively easy to hide if it wishes and the Competition Authority does not have effective means of identifying hidden business-to-business links. For example, foreign competition authorities are not obliged to assist the Competition Authority in obtaining evidence on the supervision obligations under the Pharmaceutical Law. Nor do foreign companies have any obligation to provide information at the request of the Competition Authority. Also, existing administrative tools (such as obtaining information requests and taking explanations) are not sufficient to identify hidden links and to achieve effective monitoring. Better supervisory powers would mean empowering the Competition Authority to pursue surveillance activities, but to achieve this, the link between pharmacies and wholesalers of medicinal products should be criminalised, which would be an extreme step and would clearly be disproportionate given the limited impact of these ownership relationships. ' I also quote from the Competition Authority's letter: 'The Competition Authority still considers that the need for a pharmacist's request is not convincingly justified by health policy or other arguments and that the issues related to its actual implementation have not been considered. It is highly likely that such a change in principle and the vast majority of the market would pose a risk to the sustainable provision of the pharmacy service. It would also be a regulation that severely restricts free entrepreneurship. As the Competition Authority has pointed out in the past, in order to implement the restriction, a large number of non-compliant pharmacies should be transferred to pharmacists. It is not known, however, how many pharmacists would actually be prepared to do business and whether the applicants would have sufficient financial capacity to buy pharmacies. If a substantial proportion of pharmacies fail to be transferred to pharmacists, the respective licences should be withdrawn and the pharmacies closed, which are not in the interest of health policy. Against this background, the Competition Authority is in favour of abolishing the restriction. ' If the pharmaceutical law is maintained in its current form, the expropriation mechanism will be activated and a situation will be created in which private property will be reallocated by force. This is certainly not the goal that we should strive for. Ladies and gentlemen, I gave an introductory overview of the objectives set out in the draft and of the reasons why we reached this draft. I hope for pleasant cooperation and I am ready to answer questions about the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U47	Thank you. You also have a lot of questions. Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U48	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable waitress! When you prepare the draft, you have certainly discussed it very thoroughly with the various parties involved. Above all, 2015, when the law was passed, there were many problems that were also reflected in the international press, and the Ministry of Social Affairs promised to analyse the situation comprehensively and to contribute fully to the creation of the conditions necessary for the entry into force of the law. I have not been able to find specific data on the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs, except for what was here in the autumn a provision of EUR 100 000 to the pharmacists' organisation. Can you guide me where I can read about these analyses and actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U49	Thank you very much for your question. Unfortunately, I have to say that me and the initiators are in just as bad a situation as you are. When the draft 2015 was adopted, analyses were indeed promised. These tests have not been carried out. If I recall a debate in this Chamber a year ago, then the rapporteur of the then draft also pointed out that a question had arisen about these analyses in the Commission, and then I myself was not a member of the Social Affairs Committee during the previous term, which is why I rely on what was said in the large hall, the rapporteur said that these analyses had not been carried out or, if so, they would not be made public. So, unfortunately, I have to admit that we were in the same situation as you were with the initiators. These analyses, unfortunately, have not been carried out in this form, and we had to do at our hands the text and the solution that we were able to put together, to the problems that we perceived and understood in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U50	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U51	Thank you. First, I'd like to refresh your memory. Before the Pharmacy Reform was launched, two years in the Riigikogu were considered exactly how to do it. Analyses have also been carried out and the University of Tartu has even carried out a survey. All these things are there, and they're available today. But what I want to say is that the pharmaceutical law that was in force five years ago was contrary to the principles of equality and the freedom to conduct a business, and the lack of competition in the pharmaceutical market directly affected the interests of patients. The audit of the National Audit Office referred to this, referred to by the Chancellor of Justice, and the Supreme Court had also made a similar decision. Now you all want to turn right back to the old track. My question is whether, in your opinion, this is not a conflict of interest when a wholesaler sells its own medicines from its warehouse to its own pharmacy at a suitable price and in its own choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U52	Thank you for your question. Perhaps I misunderstood Mrs Everaus's question, but I was talking about this analysis and the debate that was to follow in 2015 on the adoption of the law, not the preceding one or the reasons for the adoption of such a draft in 2014 and 2015. Indeed, the sources you referred to in the report of the National Audit Office as well as in the study of the University of Tartu, they certainly existed, but I did mean, with my answer, what should have followed in 2015, that is, how the executive power should have examined how the legislator's will could be implemented. In my introductory text, I referred to a letter from the Competition Authority and it is true that, unfortunately, the Competition Authority does not see that the separation of pharmacies from wholesalers would contribute to this situation in any way. I have quoted from a letter from the Competition Authority indicating that hidden connections may remain. However, they are very difficult to identify. In its earlier studies, the Competition Authority has also pointed out that individual weak pharmacies alongside strong wholesale companies may have an even greater impact on the market and that the existence of "non-chain pharmacies" or, if they belong exclusively to pharmacists or are smaller, may lead to an even more complex situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U53	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U54	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable draft waitress! In addition to the office of a member of the Riigikogu, you also hold the office of the party's secretary-general and, as we know, one of the tasks of the party's secretary-general is to ask for donations to the party. Today, you are facing us like a hat of a member of the Riigikogu and defending a bill that is directly in the interests of one of your donors. How do you feel about this behaviour, that you are a member of both the Secretary-General and the Riigikogu and present us with such a draft, in line with our political culture today in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U55	Thank you, thank you! I think so. I am absolutely convinced that things must not only look right and beautiful, but they must also be. Since all the supporters of our party are reflected as the law requires and provides, I do not see any problem in this matter, and I do not wear any hats in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U56	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I have worked here in the Riigikogu in several formations, and this bill not only looks bad, but it is also very bad. This is indicated by the impression that the draft has been committed outside the Riigikogu. I have a specific question. There's only 12 points. Point 7 amends § 45 of the current pharmaceutical law: it says that in a settlement of less than 20,000 inhabitants, the general pharmacy no longer needs to be open for 40 hours per week. This applies, for example, to Keila. For what purpose did you receive this provision, and what is the purpose of this provision? There is no information in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U58	Thank you. As I said when I handed over this text of the law, I am not convinced that there is no way to improve it. Surely we can and will be able to do so together. After all, in this section you read out, the minimum is not that pharmacies should not be open for longer, but that they must be open for at least 40 hours a week.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U59	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U60	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As the initiator's representative, I have a question for you. Commission Chairman Mölder can't tell where this bill came from on his desk. Clearly, at least yesterday or the day before, he had not read the bill. I believe you've read and maybe you know more about it. Obviously, all the points expressing the interests of today's large owners have been included in this bill, except for one compared to what they offered to the public, which is not the market doll in this bill, but all the other interests of the big businessmen over the years have been well expressed here. As a result, I have a question: could you enlighten the Riigikogu, who has written this bill, and could you tell me why a sentence was left in the original draft of pharmaceutical companies that this bill would allow the reform of pharmacies to continue, even though it would be cancelled in full? What is the meaning of the sentence that allows the reform of the pharmacy to continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U61	Thank you. First of all, just as I said, when we lose ownership restrictions, the pharmacy can be run, just like today, by all natural-legal persons. I think the public knows quite well that this draft was prepared by a small coalition working group where an understanding and agreement was reached on the issues and facts that are set out in this draft. The text of the draft text helped us to write down the officials of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U62	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U63	Thank you. Good waitress! As you also referred to the Reform Party's draft, it must be said, in the interests of regularity, that these drafts are different. In this draft, which you have tabled, I am sure to be disturbed by at least two points. One is the topic of rare pharmacies, which has been through, and the other is the amendment of the requirements of general pharmacies. These are two substantive issues that may not have a good effect on the pharmaceutical market. On the other hand, the question which the pharmacy may belong to is whether the pharmacy must belong to the pharmacist only or may be owned by someone else, but the requirements imposed by the State are valid. Rather, my question is that, given the different opinions in this Riigikogu and the different opinions of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister, did you not consider that the working group should have included the opposition and the Ministry of Social Affairs in order to better prepare the draft. Then perhaps we would really have received a bill that would also have been supported in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U64	Thank you. I apologize if my text was somehow misleading. I certainly do not want to say that this draft and the draft submitted by the Reform Party a year and two months ago are identical. In my introductory text, I rather quoted those scriptures in which our understanding of ownership restrictions is similar. But I'm sure there's a difference of opinion here. And what you referred to in the introductory text, I also said, is that the current wording is probably not the most successful. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal says that our aim is that in the larger cities in the future only general pharmacies would be available and that the branch pharmacies would disappear from those municipalities with more than 20000 inhabitants, i.e. from the larger cities of Estonia. It is certainly not the intention of the initiators that it is possible to read here as if the general pharmacies could be turned into a branch pharmacy. When this bill passes first reading, I expect and hope that we can correct this mistake, correct it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U65	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U66	Thank you. Good waitress! As a long-standing person involved in this subject, I can see very clearly the commercial interests of wholesale companies and chains, and to play even better hands on them, behind the reversal of the reform of the pharmacy. It is indeed, in my opinion, a completely one-sided draft, which gives greater opportunities to branch pharmacies, or pharmacy-like products, where there is no need to have a pharmacist, where medicines are not made, and where there are minimum space requirements and shorter opening hours. I see here the possibility of endless additions all over Estonia and I fear that they will be eating out these proper pharmacists in the country. This is a very serious threat. And I ask the same question: who is really behind writing this bill? Here are many things that the members of the working group themselves do not understand, all right, we have seen this in recent days. Who is behind this, and why were the branches of pharmacists not involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U67	Thank you. As you describe, as a strong supporter of one party, as a person who has consistently fought well for pharmacists, you know that it is clear that there are very different segments in the market, with very different interests. However, I would like to read one more time about this letter from the Competition Authority dated 18 June concerning the vertical restriction of ownership. It says here that once the ownership restriction has finally entered into force, a large number of relatively small pharmacist clients would be created for wholesalers, none of whom would have much bargaining power. It is also unpredictable what happens to wholesalers whose business model has so far stood for supplying their own chain of pharmacies. These are important aspects and I referred earlier to the possible negative effects of amending § 42 (5) of the same §. There are, of course, certain risks involved in changing all things, but we have a very clear ideological disagreement with you and this must be accepted both by me and by you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U68	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U69	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, In an extraordinary session of the Committee on Social Affairs, the question arose as to whether the Minister of Social Affairs had taken part in these discussions. It became clear that he had taken part in all the discussions, but his position was obviously not supported because the Minister felt that the current reform should proceed and enter into force on 1 April. Ain Raal, a professor of pharmaceuticals, and so do many other people. I have this question: as writers, of course, you are experts, but why are you teasing and punishing those people who live in Viljandi, for example, where the opportunity to make a tray and to make a handful of medicines will soon disappear? Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U70	Thank you. This bill certainly doesn't bother anyone, and we listen to specialists. As I have answered Mrs Marika Tuus-Laul's question, interests in this area are certainly different and everyone's interests, as we know, cannot well be realised at once. I have said several times, including in the introductory speech, before we came to the questions that the initiators had no intention of losing Viljandi general pharmacies or replacing them with branch pharmacies. If the current wording of the draft, as I said, is inaccurate or interpretationable, as we have heard in recent days, and considering your question, unfortunately it will allow it, then the wording must be changed so that the will of the initiators is clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U71	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U72	Thank you. Mr. Onions! I never agreed with what was done five years ago. Such State interference is not appropriate. But the situation is different when the owner of the pharmacy has also become the owner of the parties and has given them money at the same time as processing the bill. But tell me what makes this bill different from that bill we defended here a year and a half ago. Why did you start touching the requirements of general pharmacies and rare pharmacies? On the substantive side, it is also very difficult for me to support your draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U73	Thank you. As I was referring to, the aim was to reduce or convert the number of branch pharmacies in the Act, which was also written in 2015. However, unfortunately, when this law came into force, the interim owners were not able to reformulate the branch pharmacies, so we probably either did not notice it or did not pay enough attention to it, because these pharmacies did not meet the other requirements of the Pharmaceutical Act, i.e. they were not pharmacists. From 2015 until today, the owners of pharmacies other than only pharmacists were not able to circle their branch pharmacies, and that is why we thought that we should bring into the draft the topic of branch pharmacies and that in larger cities the pharmacy service would be uniform, so that no matter what kind of pharmacy person enters, he knows that there is a tray and all the other necessary medicines. I'd love to quote you. In short, in 2018, when this bill was negotiated, you said this: 'But you tell me who will then feed you that you do not want to permit this bill to progress'. Well, I don't know what you mean by that either, but I think this debate is as topical today as it was a year ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U74	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U75	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'll take it from the same place. It is incomprehensible to me that if the aim is only to remove ownership restrictions, why not come up with such a simple draft? You wouldn't have this verbal confusion, and we would understand the will of the initiator. But in the shadow of the loss of ownership restrictions, a number of other changes are being made and, as colleagues have pointed out, the quality of the pharmacy service, where the pharmacist is present at the pharmacy and can provide the medicine, will probably survive in five of the largest cities in Estonia. In other parts of Estonia, the situation is getting much worse for people. If you say it wasn't the will of the initiator, then my question is, whose will it was. Whose will does this bill express? And if it is only a eloquent confusion that needs to be changed if there is only one well-drafted amendment and all the rest is a eloquent confusion, then why does the Riigikogu have to deal with such a draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U76	Thank you. Well, that's the capacity of the initiators. If you have a better bill, you can always turn it in. You were a minister too, and I must say that, unfortunately, it was not as I have already mentioned when I answered the questions that I have already mentioned to get analyses from the Ministry so that we could have worked better as Members of Parliament. We don't have any helpers, and that's the ability we have. But, as I have already said, we can certainly improve this draft, both here and in the Commission together.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U77	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U78	Thank you. Dear waitress, The introduction to this bill contains this sentence: '2020. As a result of the changes that will enter into force on 1 April 2008, there is a risk that approximately 64% of pharmacies will cease to function on the Estonian market. ' My question is, how has this percentage of danger been calculated? Is it some kind of mathematical formula, a probability formula, or some kind of emotional knowledge that this could happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U79	Thank you. This is our knowledge today, which also concerns information on the website of the Agency, for example. This is the number of pharmacies that, today, as of 1 December, today, we already have 17 December, rather than the requirements laid down in the law that will enter into force on 1 April 2020. This is the number of pharmacies that are now known, and if pharmacies do not meet the legal requirements, they must be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U80	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U81	Thank you. Maybe with the help of the press, it's got the wrong impression. We are not going to reform the pharmacy from April next year, but are at the end of the pharmacy reform, and in five years most of the work has already been done and pharmacists have created new pharmacies, taken over existing or remaining pharmacies. My question is: what has changed in five years that the current bizarre government coalition opened up, at the end of the reform, the amendments to the pharmaceutical law for new discussions, all the more so with the same arguments that once started the pharmaceutical reform to ensure the best access to medicines and an affordable price? Do you really want the pharmacists gone? The current bill will do everything in its power to keep the pharmacies on the chains and to eliminate the pharmacists.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U82	Thank you. Today's draft and the amendment of the pharmaceutical law will certainly not change this situation. Only pharmacists were allowed in Estonia until 1996 when it was decided to amend the law and allow other owners to pharmacies. In 2015 the situation was rather reversed. And the truth is what I have pointed out on several occasions is that we have no analysis and no understanding of how the executives are trying to realise it. Today, three and a half months before the deadline laid down in the Act, we are in a situation where 2/3 of Estonian pharmacies do not meet the requirements laid down in the Act. That was the reason, and that is the will and ability of today's coalition to write this bill in this form and bring it here before you to deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U83	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U84	Good manager! Good waitress! The President of the Republic has said that buying a law is not okay, even if the law you buy is essentially noble. As you know, the game doesn't just have to be fair, but it also seems fair. Right now, I think it smells pretty shitty, as they say in the country language. My question, good Priit, is this: have you been communicating with your partymate, Margus Linnamäe, or his family members on the drugstore this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U85	Thank you. I've been talking to a lot of people about a lot of different things, and I can say yes to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U86	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U87	Thank you. You talk a lot about pharmacist property in the retail market. However, the real problem in Estonia is not in the retail market, where competition between pharmacies and pharmacies actually works. In some places, such as the city centre of Tallinn, competition is even excessive, which we, as patients, of course pay for. Our greater concern just as well as the National Audit Office and the Supreme Court have said this, after all, there is a wholesale market where there is virtually no competition. German Phoenix and Margus Linnamäe companies own 75% of the wholesale market and at the same time own pharmacies. In fact, they own the entire national supply chain and consequently take more money from consumers, patients than it would be fair. That is why the ban on vertical integration is, in fact, the most important thing for the current pharmaceutical reform, which is being abolished by this draft. We are not talking about pharmacists, we are talking about a ban on integration that you are abolishing. My question is: do you think that anchoring the lack of competition, which is in the interests of pharmaceutical wholesalers, will lead to lower or higher pharmaceutical prices?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U88	Thank you. I think that this amendment to the law will not have a significant impact on the prices, just as the design of the price in 2015 was not a separate objective of the law. If the draft I will present is to be adopted in this Chamber, it is a regularisation of today's situation, i.e. we will reverse the reform that we have made in 2015 and nothing will change in substance. You have certainly had more opportunities than I have to change this situation in the wholesale and retail markets because you have been Minister of Social Affairs. It's been a lot more difficult for me to do that. I refer once again to the letter sent by the Competition Authority, which dealt with two issues, both the issue of pharmacist property and the issue of vertical ownership. I quote: 'In a situation where the independence of pharmacies from wholesalers cannot be fully verified, it is certainly reasonable to amend the pharmaceutical law and remove the unjustified restriction of competition. " If we can resolve the problem you referred to more wisely, we can certainly come back to that question later. Today, there are more than 50 pharmaceutical wholesalers in Estonia, three of whom are larger and have a large market share.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U89	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! This bill is not long, there are 12 points. You should be able and able to explain the content of these points. I will ask again about point 7 concerning the relaxation of general pharmacy requirements. The current pharmaceutical law states that the general pharmacy service must be guaranteed for at least 40 hours per week in a population unit of 4,000 or more inhabitants. Now the proposed new draft amends this condition and says that in a city of 20000 or more inhabitants, the general pharmacy service must be guaranteed at least 40 hours per week. This means that in a city the size of Keila, for example, general pharmacy services no longer need to be guaranteed for at least 40 hours. What is the purpose of this provision, and why did you write it in the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U91	Thank you. Your perseverance and determination will honor you! As I have already said, this provision will not be the most successful one. The objective of the provision by which we introduced a limitation on an administrative or settlement unit of 20000 inhabitants was that in the future we would only have general pharmacies in larger cities. Regrettably, as I have already said in answering a number of questions, it is also possible to interpret this text as you do. Consequently, we must correct this provision, because it has not been our will. Consequently, we formulated the amendment unsuccessfully.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U92	Thank you. Lauri West Forest, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U93	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Can you confirm from this remote unit that the group that prepared this draft did not receive a very similar draft from the representatives of pharmaceutical companies? If not, who, if sent or transferred, did this bill come into your hands and now before us?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U94	Thank you. As I have pointed out, it has been formulated by the coalition working group and written by representatives of the good Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U95	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U96	Thank you. Good waitress! For years, the Competition Authority has believed that we are restricting free entrepreneurship. They have not understood that the pharmacy service is a health care service, not a sock pair sale. But the reform of the pharmacy is supported by a lot of people: the Agency of Medicines, various social affairs ministers, the University of Tartu and professor of pharmaceuticals Ain Raal, the Chancellor of Justice, the National Audit Office, the European Commission, the European Court of Justice, who have made the relevant decisions, as well as today's Minister Tanel Kiik. I am asking you that it is clear to everyone that one pharmacy will not replace another immediately on 1 April at the same hour or minute. But we have proposed very good versions with the Minister: we are doing this in regions and stages, so that there is no such empty place. Why do you not support the views of our best minister, who is very well informed? In this way, we would also meet the objective of this reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U97	Thank you. What you describe as the Minister's objectives, unfortunately, is not included in any law. If the Minister has a plan, I have not seen it as a member of the Social Affairs Committee. It is also true that I and the Minister for Social Affairs have different opinions on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U98	Tarmo Tamm, next question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U99	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, We have before us a draft law that is not supported by the Minister, the Chancellor of Justice or the Auditor General, on their proposal that the law be amended. I have a question: why did the amendment of this law start at the last minute and why was it postponed when the Riigikogu went on holiday for three weeks? Why is it not possible to postpone the date of entry into force of the law so that it can be discussed calmly in spring? There are many problems with this bill and this law. Why should this law not enter into force six months later? What's the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U100	Thank you. First of all, the reason is that the law provides for requirements that will apply to pharmacies on 1 April, but that pharmacies do not meet these requirements. Consequently, we must respond somehow to this situation. There is no way to push this issue anywhere. I find it regrettable that we failed to adopt this law during the previous term. Looking at the 2015 or 2014 votes, these are issues in which the drafts have not known the boundaries of the coalition and opposition. Perhaps we should have taken the opportunity to negotiate with the opposition, and perhaps today's draft would have been better. But this is the bill we were able to agree on right now, and I'll introduce it to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U101	Helmen Hunter, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U102	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear waitress, I have such a request: would you like to introduce or tell me what analysis has shown that this has generated 20,000 in your draft? The second thing is whether the Minister, who, as it turned out in the Committee on Social Affairs, attended all the gatherings in which this draft was prepared, did not really introduce what he felt could be changed in the current law. And do you have the plan you're presenting here on behalf of the three parties in the coalition agreement? Couldn't look it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U103	Thank you. I am not convinced that this is part of the coalition agreement, and that is probably also the reason why we did not start with this question as soon as the coalition started working. This has not been part of the coalition agreement. It was only when the working group came together that we realised that the coalition ambassadors did not want the pharmacies to be reduced in Estonia, and this draft was issued in order to achieve this objective. It is true that the Minister of Social Affairs also presented his position at a meeting of the working group, if I remember correctly, it contained 17 points, but I am not quite sure, I can no longer remember, but it did not find the support of the members of the working group in this form. Thank you. I'm sorry! This isn't a study. As I have pointed out on several occasions, the main objective, which was also due to the earlier law, was that in the larger municipalities we would only have general pharmacies in the future, and that 20,000 inhabitants' borders came from that side. In that sense, he came backwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U104	Jürgen Ligi, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U105	Thank you. It's quite possible that you correctly quoted my last year's question of who's feeding you. But the answer has actually been given, the transfers of money to the political parties have been made, and now your mind has changed. After all, last year's bill was directed against ownership restrictions. This brutal state interference in ownership did not suit us, and we were fed by the Competition Authority's analysis. But in the meantime, money transfers have been made, and now you've changed your mind. At the time, you voted in the drawer in essence on this bill. The bill has now been amended and your mind has also changed. Tell me exactly how the mechanism worked out for you. How did you dissuade your coalition associates, and why did you vote down those two points at the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U106	Firstly, we are going to the draft that was pending in 2018. It was not voted down, it passed first reading in Parliament. I, too, asked and told the rapporteur that I would agree with much of the proposals in the draft. So, in 2018, when your party and group's draft were pending, I supported it. As you know, I was with you in the Committee on Monetary Affairs during the previous term and this draft was dealt with not by me, but by the Committee on Social Affairs. Consequently, this question is addressed to someone else. It's pretty easy to go back to history. 2014 isamaa, who at the time was named IRL, did not support the amendment that dealt with ownership restrictions: 23 ambassadors were in favour of three. When it comes to the draft of 2018, which you submitted, there was a similar debate in the government, and the Minister of the Fatherland, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, remained divided, mainly because of the views expressed by the Competition Authority, as you referred to. So the Fatherland has consistently opposed ownership restrictions on this issue. And that's why we're here today with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U107	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U108	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You repeatedly referred to the opinion of the Competition Authority and described the competitive situation on the wholesale market. I would ask if this is really a competition in a situation where the warehouse actually owns the supply chain. The owner is Margus Linnamäe Magnum. But also another wholesaler, Pharmacies Cooperation Wholesale, in fact, does not own a warehouse or supply chain, but uses the same Magnum. Is that what chain pharmacies at yesterday's press conference pointed out to be the scale effect that keeps up the wholesale and retail supply of medicines? Is it a scale effect and real competition if we actually have one warehouse and one supply chain, and the other legal bodies created do not compete, but use the same supply chain?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U109	Thank you. In Estonia, as I replied to your colleague and benchmate, the previous Minister of Social Affairs, Jevgeni Ossinovski, has a significant impact on over 50 wholesale companies, two or three of whom really have an important role. The Competition Authority points out that we are not dealing with a monopoly market. And like Mr Ossinovski, as a minister, you have had more opportunities to change this situation than I have in my work and work. The only thing I remember afterwards is a story in the media that I don't make up myself. If I remember correctly, it once again appeared through national broadcasting, and that is what Hele Everaus referred to in his question. The only time the Ministry of Social Affairs has done anything to order an analysis of the pharmacy reform was when, at the end of 2018, EUR 100000 was allocated to the Estonian Chamber of pharmacists, and it became clear that the minister had made the decision to allocate the money the day before the application arrived in the house. At least that's what it said in the story. I don't know why it all really happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U110	Riina Sikkut had a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U111	Why didn't I, as minister, decide to solve the situation? My decision was to go ahead with the current law, enforce the reform and not end vertical integration. That's what I did.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U112	Now, the question is Urmas Kruus. Although this shows that this is the second question, it is actually the first.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U113	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! You have pointed out on several occasions that it is good to have only basic pharmacies or general pharmacies in large cities. What kind of analysis are you referring to? You also indicated that it would be good for every pharmacy to make medicine. Do you know how many drugs are ordered at the pharmacy and in which area? And from your point of view, would it not be inappropriate to impose unreasonable investment obligations on an undertaking, given that consumers are taking advantage of this possibility in very few cases and very few regions? After all, in the previous law, it was resolved that a pharmacist may also have so-called 'branch pharmacies', so that it is not necessary to forge in terms of an investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U114	Thank you. The purpose of the draft has been to ensure that the quality of the pharmacy service in large cities is the same. As I was referring to, any person walking through a pharmacy door shouldn't think about whether or not he's getting that drug here or not. This objective could be achieved in large cities and it would be sensible and appropriate in large cities, insofar as it has been described that pharmacies are more frequent in larger cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U115	Urve Tiidus, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Waitress Priit Onion! You seem to be very well placed on the subject of pharmacies. As the pharmacy reform is still under way, the process is under way until 1 April next year, the coalition has brought a bill to stop it, to reverse it. I'm asking you to fantasize that if you had your hands open, what would you think would be the best option? If, in your opinion, the current reform is highly deficient, but certainly there is no proposal to change the reform, to reverse the perfect one and you would have a free hand, what would you do with these Estonian pharmacies?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U117	I think that all kinds of things can be fantasised about this remote control, but if you look at the views of consumers or patients, most patients or the clients of the pharmacy in Estonia are very satisfied with the current situation. I therefore see no reason or need to reverse the situation today and allow the law currently in force to enter into force. That's my understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U118	Peter Ernits, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U119	Good manager! Good waitress! That this bill smells bad, buying the law, I wouldn't repeat. But on 8 November, Stefan Herfeld, the head of the Phoenix Group, sent a letter to our Foreign Minister, the Minister for Social Affairs and the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, one of Europe's largest pharmaceutical wholesale companies. It was a rather harsh letter that said that the law had to be changed, that it had to be turned back. In this light, I ask whether Estonia is a sovereign state.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U120	Thank you. Estonia is an absolutely sovereign state, and I do not see any connection in this sense. I think it is quite logical that the various operators are standing up for their interests and sending these letters. I don't see any problem with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U121	Signe Riisalo, please ask a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U122	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague, waitress! I am not hiding at all that I do not like the content of this draft nor the process of processing it. The contents first. In addition to the issue of ownership and related matters, quality and accessibility remain a question for me. Yesterday, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we discussed the non-entry of medicines into the Estonian market and their deficit. One measure identified the possibility that pharmacies could also produce medicines on the spot. This bill, however, will certainly reduce this possibility by setting the same threshold of 20,000 inhabitants and taking the service beyond the people. As regards the process, it is quite unclear why the government, in particular the Ministry of Social Affairs, has prepared amendments to the pharmaceutical law in parallel. There are several good suggestions. Why have they not been taken into account and cooperated?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U123	Thank you. As soon as the amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products of the Ministry of Social Affairs reach Parliament and the Committee on Social Affairs, we will be able to deal with them. Before that, it's very difficult to do. As regards the fact that the preparation of various drafts is taking place in different ministries, we also discussed the first-level health issues, there were representatives of family doctors and members of the Social Affairs Committee, questions were asked and it became clear that everything is in the draft that is being prepared. However, when I asked to see this bill so that I could get acquainted with it, it turned out that this bill still does not exist. It's only in the heads of officials or in the blanks they're not ready to share. As soon as the drafts are ready in such a way that we can deal with them, we will proceed with them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U124	Tarmo Tamm, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U125	Thank you, manager. Good waitress! You said you had to hurry because the law entered April 1st. I ask whether Parliament has the right to postpone this date of entry into force, such as 1 October, or whether this right does not exist in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U126	Thank you. I'm sorry, I misunderstood your question earlier. Of course, Parliament can also simply extend this transitional deadline, but I personally do not support it and do not consider it reasonable. I think it makes more sense what we have proposed, because it has been four and a half years since 2015 and we have not been able to make the transition, we have no analysis and no understanding of how to achieve this situation. However, we do know that today we have a number of pharmacies that no longer comply with the law on 1 April 2020; there are 2/3 such pharmacies.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U127	Urmas Kruuse, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your report, you referred several times to the fact that the Competition Authority is unable to identify whether or not it is vertical integration. In fact, it is saddening that there are no institutions in Estonia that are able to deal with the principle of integration and that there are so-called false pharmacies or hidden entrepreneurs. It's sad in itself. Another thing that stands out is that time has changed enough and the possible creation of a monopoly can mean that you have to chew farther than just yoke. But I would like to give you an example of a rural enterprise. We are aware today that in hospital pharmacies, medicines are generally 10% cheaper, so at least the public has been told and that farms are concentrated in buying-in. I would argue that if there were only pharmacists in Estonia and they were concentrated in terms of the buy-in channel, there would also be real competition between merchants, which means that both the patient and the state will win. Haven't you ever thought of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U129	Thank you. It would be clear that I certainly cannot accuse the Competition Authority of any incompetence, and I have never once claimed that they could not identify vertical property. However, they have said in their letter: 'We wish to further clarify that according to § 42 (5) of the pharmaceutical law currently in force, the Agency must, at the request of the Agency, assess the relationship through the dominant influence of pharmacies' wholesalers. In practice, however, this has proved problematic, as the dominant influence is relatively easy to hide if it wishes and the Competition Authority does not have effective means of identifying hidden links between undertakings. 'Jne. So we have to give them better tools. We can discuss it, argue it. But what you're referring to, in my opinion, is a little bit about the Urve Tiidus proposal that we're going to fantasize what would happen if all the pharmacies were to have separate pharmacists who at one point could unite under a common hat in order to get better terms from wholesale companies. I am not sure that this is possible, because it seems to me that there are always entrepreneurs who want an exception, etc. I'm sure you can think of it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U130	Andrei Korobenik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U131	Thank you. The question is, indeed, what will happen? The impact analysis of the law tells us that by applying the law, we can avoid litigation and subsequent huge claims due to expropriation. Gigantic claims, pay attention! When we read point 3 of the explanatory memorandum, we find that it is an amount that is between 75 and 200 million. And it is most likely that the State will have to reimburse it in full. My question is what data is based on this analysis. Where is this price taken from, and who has provided the legislator with the assessment of this legal risk?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U132	Thank you. This bill comes from the initiators, and that is the understanding that has developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U133	Hanno Pevkur, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U134	Thank you. I'm still thinking about what's in store for us. If you look at the Agency's website, the figures there have probably been going through the story today that there is a risk of 300 pharmacies going down, then I would rather ask you this: have you discussed within the coalition, who is really responsible? I will perhaps lead your response in that direction, so that perhaps it would be reasonable to withdraw the draft that Parliament has initiated and still allow the government to assume its responsibility. The government and the Ministry of Social Affairs are the ones who have to take responsibility for this issue, and should also be a specific responsibility. If 300 pharmacies go to prison on April 1, will the Minister of Social Affairs, the Prime Minister or the entire government resign? You should know who's in charge. Have you discussed this in the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U135	Thank you. Of course, the government is responsible and the Minister of Social Affairs exercises executive power in this area. It's clear as day! However, I do not think it would be wise to withdraw this bill. I think it makes sense to make it better together and to process it to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U136	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Now I would like to ask Tõnis Möldri, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, as co-rapporteur here. I would like to inform everyone that the Centre Party Group has proposed to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. This is just for information at first, and I will put it to the vote when we get closer to 13:00. Let's see how this thing works here. Mr. Mölder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at an extraordinary meeting on 12 December. There were eight main members, one alternate and one member of the Riigikogu who participated as a guest. Once again, the purpose of the draft law was to remove certain restrictions on the ownership structure of pharmacies and to increase the population limit of 4000 people to 20000 people. A new deadline was also granted for the restructuring of Haruapteks, 1 April 2021. Now from the Commission's debate. The members of the Commission wanted to know more generally what the government's position on this draft was and whether the initiators of the draft had become familiar with the opinion of the Agency. The government's official position on this draft has not been included at the moment, but if the government wants and wishes to, I believe that it certainly wishes, it will be able to present its position between the first and second readings. However, the position of the Agency exists and is attached to the procedural documents. In addition, it was requested to know the new deadline for the restructuring of the branch pharmacies. That is what I mentioned once before, on 1 April 2021. It was also asked whether the Ministry of Social Affairs and their views were involved in drafting the draft. The answer was no, the Ministry of Social Affairs did not participate in the initiation of this draft. There was also a question of the impact of increasing the threshold for the establishment of branch pharmacies on the quality of service and, as a result, in some pharmacies, for example, the obligation to manufacture medicines and the availability of services are being reduced. The response of the drafters was that the aim was certainly not to make the quality of the service deteriorate, but to ensure that the pharmacies were not closed down and that the availability of medicines was guaranteed at least at present. Then they asked what was the difference between the main pharmacy and the branch pharmacy. Indeed, a branch pharmacy can only be established if there is a basic pharmacy and the branch pharmacy is subject to significantly more modest requirements. For example, the branch pharmacy does not need to have a pharmacist on site, there may be a pharmacist, and the branch pharmacy does not need to have the possibility to manufacture medicines, but it must be ensured in the main pharmacy. It then came back to the subject of quality of service. In this respect, it was based in particular on the fact that, if the branch pharmacies could be built up precisely at the expense of the main pharmacies, whether this would lead to a deterioration in the quality of the service. Again, it should be noted here that the initiators did not want to worsen the quality of the service. Since we are granting a transitional deadline, it is precisely basic pharmacies that can be established in all other cities where there are branch pharmacies today, in place of branch pharmacies. This is the main idea of the creation of basic pharmacies instead of branch pharmacies. So the main aim and hope of the initiators of the draft is that the quality of service will improve or be guaranteed at least to the same extent as today. It was also examined whether the law regulates how far the main pharmacy must be located from the branch pharmacy. Indeed, the proposed draft does not regulate it, but I think that it can be discussed between the first reading and the second reading and during the procedure, because it is quite an important subject. There was also a question about the impact of the current draft on the number of pharmacies in Estonia. If we have a total of 498 pharmacies, will the number of pharmacies increase, decrease or remain the same after the adoption of this bill? The purpose of the initiators of the draft measure was to leave the number of pharmacies more or less in the same order of magnitude as today. The aim is certainly not to reduce pharmacies. It was also discussed whether the quality of the pharmacy service should be based solely on the number of pharmacies, is it a quality indicator? Or does the provision of a service show quality? There is certainly a need to look at what satisfaction studies show here. Today, people are satisfied with the pharmacy service and I think this is the main quality indicator, so the current situation needs to be legalised. It was then asked whether the current draft would also lead to an increase in the price of medicines. Here again, the answer was that the draft does not contain any price mechanisms concerning the pharmaceutical market and the regulation of the prices of pharmaceutical services. They are governed by other legislation; the content of this draft does not have to adjust the prices of medicinal products. Have the proposals of the Minister of Social Affairs been taken into account in drafting the draft? Indeed, the Minister of Social Affairs attended all the meetings of the working group and had the opportunity to submit proposals. Then they asked whether they were certain that the prices of medicines would not increase. A comparison was made with hospital pharmacies, where various studies, in particular those carried out by the Auditor General, have shown that the level of the drug price is 10% lower than that of ordinary pharmacies. At this point, it must be explained first of all that hospital pharmacy and ordinary, "provisooraptic" or chain pharmacy are not exactly the same institution, but if we compare prices in pharmacists and chain pharmacies, we will actually see that there is no difference in prices. It was also discussed whether the draft regulates competition on the market and whether the draft introduced signals that the law currently in force from 1 April will not enter into force. No, the draft was not intended to regulate competition. Its aim was to remove restrictions from the pharmacy sector, and I think it is the sector itself that regulates it. It was then examined why the Minister of Social Affairs had not been present at the drafting of the draft. I have already replied to this: the Minister of Social Affairs attended the working group meetings and was able to give his input in drafting the draft. There was also an interest in the number of analyses carried out by the Ministry on the implementation of the current pharmaceutical law. I stress, on implementation! According to the initiators of the draft act, the Ministry of Social Affairs has not prepared an impact analysis, which specifically concerns the implementation of the draft act, and here I would emphasise perhaps successful implementation. It was examined whether it would not be reasonable to do so in order to first give the Ministry of Social Affairs the task of preparing an analysis and, after that, to come up with a new draft. Once again, there were a variety of options, but the initiators decided, on behalf of the three groups, to come up with a new draft pharmaceutical law on their own. The guest who attended the meeting examined why it had been decided to waive the prohibition on vertical integration in this form. Once again, the initiators aimed to remove all ownership restrictions in this sector and to avoid so-called 'hidden property'. It was examined whether authorisation to sell medicinal products in shops, petrol stations could be included in the draft during the procedure. Once again, it is not regulated by the draft that is currently pending today, but it cannot be ruled out that such amendments will be received between the first reading and the second reading. The Riigikogu will certainly be able to process these proposals in its good and better knowledge. According to information that I know, there are also 101 members of the Riigikogu who support this proposal. Finally, it was indeed also examined whether the draft could have been based on the interests of one party's supporter. On this point, the initiator said that, no, it was a very clear draft regulation governing access to medicines, and this draft has been dealt with in the best faith precisely from this point of view. After a long and substantive debate, the Commission decided by consensus to appoint the chairman of the Social Committee, the speaker Tõnis Mölder, as rapporteur in the large Chamber; to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session today, by 17 December (this decision was also consensual); to conclude the first reading of the draft (this decision was also consensual); to set ten working days by vote on the deadline for tabling amendments. Alternative proposals were also put forward for 20 working days and 15 working days, but they did not receive the Commission's majority support. That is all that has happened in the Committee on Social Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U138	Thank you. There is at least one question for the rapporteur. Andrei Korobenik, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U139	Thank you. I've asked the initiator of the bill a question, and I haven't gotten an answer. In the meantime, the initiator of the draft act said that some inaccurately formulated places may be due to the lack of capacity of the initiator of the draft act, but he has not answered my question. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law sets out the price of 75 to 200 million and provides a fairly solid legal assessment that the state must compensate the owners of the pharmacy concerned by the reform. My question is: through whom has it come into this text? Perhaps you, as chairman of the committee and as initiator of the draft, can comment on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U140	Thank you. Good partymate Andrei! First I look very deeply at you. This draft is initiated not by a single member of the Riigikogu, but by a faction of the Centre Party, to which you also belonged this morning. [[The excitement in the hall.]] So be sure to base it on you. The second thing about the question is that I am happy to answer the question. As regards whether a single market party may have the opportunity and willingness to make a claim, indeed, this possibility may arise, it cannot be ruled out. And the market participants have estimated that indeed, this order of magnitude may correspond to the amount or volume that you have marked and which is also set out in the explanatory memorandum. Whether this claim for damages is granted or whether this claim for damages is made is very difficult to speculate today. There is a court in Estonia and the court can decide whether or not it will accept this complaint. What I would perhaps mark: nor can I rule out the possibility that, if this law is passed, the pharmacists who have set up a pharmacy today will also have the wish to make a claim against the Estonian state. Whether they present it and how it is handled by the court is already a judicial question, and here I would not want to interfere in any way with the work of the court. All parties who feel that their rights have been violated have the opportunity to appeal to the courts in Estonia. And the court, I think, is best placed to assess whether a claim is justified or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U141	Andrei Korobeiinik has the right to be heard as he was mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U142	Firstly, the reception: I have not been the initiator of the draft, but my signature is not on the initiating paper. That's one. And secondly, I have a procedural question. I have asked two questions, two similar questions, I have spent both of these questions on them, but I have not received an answer. Who can I get an answer to my question from? Can the chairman give advice?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U143	The President of the sitting is relatively helpless in this regard. Jürgen Ligi, procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U144	Thank you. Uncle Pier would have said it wasn't a procedural question. But I have a procedural question. There is a precedent in the history of the Riigikogu when several dozens of initiators pulled their signature off of the draft and thereby withdrew the draft. Should we not give Andre the right to withdraw this bill now because he has not initiated it? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U145	Was that a question for me? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I think it's a fruitful conversation. Would Mr Mölder like to comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U146	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U147	I guess we won't stop talking about it again. Now there's a chance to ask a question to Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! Here in the Riigikogu, some things have been unchangeable to me. A bit sooner than you came here, I came here, and even then Marika Tuus-Laul was a member of the Social Affairs Committee. I mean, I think the whole time I've been wiping these benches here, Marika Tuus-Laul has been a member of the Social Affairs Committee. Now, I am asking, not what you discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs, but what you discussed in the Group, that you removed Marika from the Committee on Social Affairs last week or a few weeks ago. Why would you do that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U149	Thank you. I think that on your question, you have expressed yourself very correctly and precisely in fact. Indeed, you've been here longer than me and Marika have been here longer than the two of us together. So in this sense, Marika must be praised, a good and hardworking member of the Riigikogu. With regard to whether and why Marika did not attend an emergency meeting on Thursday, this is where we should look at it. It is quite common practice that, if the Commission's main members are unable to take part in the work of the Commission, they will be replaced by an alternate. In my opinion, Marika has also commented on this issue. As for the fact that guests also took part in the Commission's work, yes, Mr Kalvi Tõud, we are still expecting you as a guest of the Social Affairs Committee. If you had any wish to contribute to this work, we would be happy.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U150	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. It's time for a negotiation. There is a desire to participate in the negotiations. Riina Sikkut, please call from the speaker's chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U151	Thank you, good manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not making a long story out of it. It seems to me that we have a lot of clarity here. It's clear there's a lot of suspicious here. The draft 118 submitted to the Riigikogu last week is an excellent example of how things should not be in Estonia. The earlier decision makes a U-turn, unexpectedly. We have heard that the proposed draft does not, to a large extent, express the will of the initiators, and the Minister in charge does not agree with the proposed solution. As a buyer of medicines, I do not agree that in the future only five major cities in Estonia will receive pharmacist's advice. As a citizen, I do not agree with the fact that laws can be bought in Estonia, and as a member of the Riigikogu, I do not agree to deal with such a bill. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I propose that 118 be rejected at first reading, and I believe that all colleagues in this Chamber agree. This is a question of parliamentary dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U152	Thank you. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U153	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Looking at how April 1 approaches and what regulation we have now entered into force as a law, we need to do something about it. We can't give up, we can't stick our heads in the sand and say it's great that let it come into force, let's see what happens. And to immediately avoid it... I'll ask for three more minutes, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U154	Three extra minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U155	In order to immediately avoid the accusation as if I had changed my mind, no, I haven't changed my mind. I've always thought so. More or less five years ago, I said, for example, in the Riigikogu's board: 'In particular, I wanted to say that every time this medicine law is being discussed, it is so damn embarrassing to be here. Otherwise, it is not so embarrassing for the Riigikogu, but what has been organised around this law is really just embarrassing. ' These ownership restrictions, playing ownership in the hands of some small tsunami, are not a sensible solution. There was a statement in this Chamber that the Competition Authority thinks that we are restricting free entrepreneurship. We are restricting free entrepreneurship if we do not change this law. There's nothing to think about, that's a fact. And what are the main reasons? First of all, we are doing this for better availability. If, according to this regulation, most pharmacies do not have any pharmacy in Hiiumaa, Tõrva or Paldiski, at least temporarily, how can we say that this is to ensure better availability? No, it's not better availability, it's worse availability. That's what everyone really understands. It is said that there are some emergency measures planned, some of which means that the country is temporarily going to create pharmacies in the disaster area. Why are we doing this? For whose sake are we doing this? Why do you need it? They say the price is getting more affordable. It has been said here today that the effects of scale will bring a better price. How does this price get more affordable? We have prices regulated, mark-ups are regulated. No one can prove from the beginning that the price would somehow become more affordable. And then they say it's for quality of service, patient-centredness and public health, and it's against pharmacists and chain pharmacies. But what's interesting is that if we look at those pharmacists who are drugstore owners and speak very much in favour of the current regulation, they also own chain pharmacies. It would make sense that if public health was better kept in a pharmacy owned by a pharmacist, he would put a large sign on his doorstep: 'Here people's health has been preserved, there is a patient-centred service! ' But no, instead they put the chain pharmacy logo on the door, either the Benu or the Apotheka logo. This is done by the same spokespersons who say that their pharmacy is more patient-centred than a chain pharmacy. Then why do they want to be chain pharmacies? There is no reasonable answer to that question. The situation of the wholesale market was also addressed here. It cannot be accepted, as the Competition Authority has not agreed, that if the three major players have 75% and many small players total 25%, one of these major players being a large multinational group, it is a monopoly. It's not a monopoly, it's a false argument! The restrictions are not justified in any way. It's playing property for a little Tsunft, it's an unreasonable siege of property. As a member of the Reform Party said in this Chamber the last time a proposal of this kind was discussed: 'It is actually insane to think that the state takes up and tells some well-established players in the market that bullets, now piss off. You've made an investment, you've got an asset here, now get rid of it! See for yourself how you can! ' It's actually crazy. As far as the investment environment is concerned, we have no reason to believe that these investors would have done anything to harm Estonia. I propose continuing to discuss this draft law, supporting the completion of the first reading and seriously discussing the requirements for branch pharmacies in relation to the manufacture of medicinal products and other substantive issues. But the restrictions on ownership must be lifted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-12-17_U156	Thank you. There is no further desire to participate in the negotiations. Now I have three very serious proposals on this table. One is the proposal of the commission to conclude the first reading of the draft 118, the second is the proposal of the Centre Party Group to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, and the third is the proposal of the Socialist Party Group to reject the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group at first reading. My choice is as follows: either to extend the sitting or to put it straight to the vote? I think we're gonna put it to the vote right now. Well, in that case, let's invite everyone to the hall. Honourable colleagues! We're ready for the vote. We vote on the proposal by the Social Democratic Party Group to reject the draft law amending the pharmaceutical law initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Estonian Conservative People's Party Group and the Isamaa Group at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. Calm down, please! There were 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of rejecting 118 first reading, against 46. The draft is excluded from the procedure. Closure of the sitting at 12.52 p.m.
