ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-06_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the fifth working week of the first plenary session. Does anyone have a desire to submit inquiries or drafts? The representative of the Government of the Republic, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-06_U2	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing and the State Fees Act. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Martin Helme when this bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on tobacco and excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. The Government of the Republic is represented in the Riigikogu by the Minister of Social Affairs, Tanel Kiik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-06_U3	Thank you. Next, please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-06_U4	Good Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu initiates the Riigikogu decision 'Appointing an Estonian representative to the Nordic Investment Bank Audit Committee'.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-06_U5	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-06_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I will hand over three draft decisions of the Riigikogu, namely draft decisions on the establishment of a special budget control committee, a special monitoring committee for security authorities and a special anti-corruption committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-06_U7	Thank you. Is there any further desire to report inquiries or drafts? It doesn't look like it. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted six drafts. The Management Board decides how to deal with them in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have some messages. Today, following the end of the plenary session, the following groups of support will meet in this Chamber: the Space Support Group, convened by Andrei Korobenik, and the Freedom of expression Support Group, convened by Reuben Kaalep. Now we're going to do a presence check. Please! There are 86 delegates present at the plenary session, no 15. The next item is the adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the approval of the 5th working week agenda for the first plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. Keit Pentus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-06_U8	Thank you. The draft agenda that has been distributed to us does not provide for an information session on Wednesday. [[???Hääled saalist: 'On küll, aga see on viimasel real. Miks see on viimasel real?'???]] Why is it not on the agenda, but on the agenda? Can you say that? (Voting from the floor: "It's always been so, all the time.")
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-06_U9	This is not a session of the Riigikogu; Question Time is a separate event. It is therefore set out at the end of the agenda in a separate line. So Question Time starts at 12:00 and lasts until 14:00 when the plenary session of the Riigikogu begins. But now I would like to ask you to take a position on the agenda and vote on it. There are 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, there is no one against, with 3 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-05-06_U10	Since we have nothing else on the agenda today, I declare the sitting closed. Thank you. What? [[The Governing Board's advisor will specify.]] There's a free microphone. Please, who would like five minutes to speak? Looks like there's no one to ask. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 3:06 p.m.
