ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu, which I have convened at the time and agenda requested by 44 members of the Riigikogu pursuant to § 68 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 51 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. Does anyone want to hand over any drafts or inquiries? Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, guests, and watchers of the transfer! On behalf of the Social Democrats, I am handing over the Act amending § 7 of the Social Tax Act. What is the purpose of this short but very important bill? According to the current Social Tax Act, the social tax rate in Estonia is 33% on the amounts subject to taxation, with the exception of the special cases provided for in § 7 (3) of the Social Tax Act. In specific cases, the social tax rate is 13% and, according to the law, such cases are the social tax payable by the State and the tax payable on social security benefits. In essence, this way, under the conditions laid down by law, guarantees certain people health insurance. The draft submitted by the Social Democrats is intended to amend and supplement § 7 (3) of the Social Tax Act, under which the social tax rate would also be 13% for the payments made by the employer to the pension fund, while this lower rate would apply to contributions which do not exceed the income tax exemption threshold laid down in the Income Tax Act. In short, instead of dismantling the pension system, the Social Democrats want to think and act to make the existing three-pillar system better and more effective. The aim of the draft is to encourage voluntary pension insurance, increase income opportunities at retirement age and make occupational pension available to a wider range of employers. Both the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the European Commission have predicted that pension increases will slow down in the future and fall behind wage increases. That is why we are proposing this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U3	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. The Management Board decides on this further procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Next up, presence check, please! There are 94 people present, there are no seven. But I have to admit, there is a small error in the voting system, because I'm judging by it, like, somewhere else. But I think we can fix that mistake. Let's move on to our agenda. The Riigikogu has a quorum. Pursuant to § 52 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, the Riigikogu establishes the working schedule of the extraordinary session by a majority of votes in favour. I will put to the vote the proposal of the Riigikogu Board to work without a break until the agenda is exhausted. Let's vote! 92 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, no respondents and no abstentions, did not participate in 2. The proposal was supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first to be heard is the initiators of the vote of distrust, with up to 20 minutes to speak. Before that, however, I will introduce you to today's procedure. The statement of confidence shall be followed by the Prime Minister's statement for up to 20 minutes. All members of the Riigikogu can ask the Prime Minister two questions for one minute. Then there will be political group negotiations, a speech from the speaker for 5 + 3 minutes or two minutes on the subject. A member of the Government of the Republic shall be entitled to speak further if he so wishes. Then we will have a final vote. First of all, I would like to ask in advance the representative of the authors of the mistrust, with 20 minutes to speak. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U5	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, It's good to see you all after a long summer. George Ratas seems like a nice person. I believe most of us can sign this statement. But today's vote of no confidence is not about whether or not we like Jüri Ratas. We presented a motion of mistrust because Jüri Ratas, as Prime Minister, is responsible for what is happening in our country. Estonia has always wanted to be equal on the world stage, and we have quite succeeded. Since re-independence, we have constantly tried to be larger than our borders allow, and we have wrestled in a heavier weight category than our size would allow. It has brought us many international allies and friends that we so much need because of our small size. We have tried to come out of the former Soviet Union countries and find a place in the Nordic countries. We are neither France nor Italy, who can behave in any way and who is still taken into account because of their size. Estonia does not have to be taken into account if we want to leave ourselves alone. It can be said that the Prime Minister is not responsible for all the signs and statements made by the ministers of his government, which have damaged Estonia's international reputation. The Prime Minister himself has not made these signs. The Prime Minister himself is respectful. But we know it doesn't matter. Outside Estonia, the government as a whole is the one who gives Estonia a face, and this face is no longer clean. The list of serious foreign publications gives us quite a clear picture of what Estonia looks like during this government. Foreign Policy: 'Estonia fights racists of its own choosing'; BBC: 'How did the Baltic success story be taken over by the far right'; Euronews: 'Is extreme right populism pushing Estonia towards Russia? '; Bloomberg: 'The newest Minister of Finance of Europe wants to keep his country white'; Financial Times: 'I am against a larger euro area integration'; New York Times: 'Estonia's new ministers showed the handsigns of white supremacy'; Politico: 'Estonia has joined the club of the far right'; CBS News: 'Estonia's new government ministers feed fears towards sexism and white domination'; Guardian: 'Rassism, sexism, Nazi economics in Estonia'. This list could continue for a long time, but the image that opens is not happy or anything to be proud of. The Prime Minister is responsible for damaging Estonia's reputation and for failing to restrain his ministers. If the current Jüri Ratas government continues to do so, Estonia will become an outermost part of Europe and a pointless chunk. The Prime Minister has not been able to guarantee the dignity of Estonia's rule. The government has sailed from one scandal to another since it took office, and the Prime Minister has done nothing to prevent it. Government ministers insult and attack people and entire social groups from the positions of power, the president, women doctors, women, officials, scientists, the University of Tallinn, teachers, police, even those involved in the singing revolution. The Prime Minister is talking about a cohesive society, but as a result of the actions of his government, we have never been as divided as we are now. Is it really nice to live with everyone in a fight? The culture of governance is so arrogant that it does not care about studies or expertise. All they say is that this is our political will. And if anyone dares to think of anything or ask questions of substance about the government's actions, he will answer, "Who do you think you are? " This style of government is characteristic of countries that we do not want to be like. Estonia has not been like this. The Prime Minister is responsible for the transformation of a governance culture into one that does not appreciate democratic debate, but produces a roundabout and tired apology. It is far from being seen that the Prime Minister himself is ashamed that his government is not smiling, as it was promised, but face - to - face. George Ratas has now been Prime Minister for almost three years. His prime ministership has come to a good time when the economy has grown. At the moment, we are facing a measurable budgetary crisis. Lived not only at very good times at the expense of the strength reserves collected by previous governments, but also at the expense of the future, which has created a need to cut. Now that the global economy is fast and cooling as expected, a man who could not manage to maintain public finances even in good times is not a prime minister. If it is true that the Prime Minister deliberately held back information about the actual state of the state budget before the elections, it is truly irresponsible of him. If the government is going to change the basic law of the state budget in order to put the state budget in even greater disadvantage, then spending will be made at the expense of the future. Happy Fatherland ambassadors! Your former leader and spiritual leader, Mart Laar, wanted to include the state budget balance requirement even in the constitution. How do you watch all this? However, if the state budget has to make extensive cuts that affect everyone, we must not forget who caused this mess. The Prime Minister is responsible for this. The state budget concerns expenditure, but what the current government absolutely does not do is to increase the economy, i.e. create better opportunities to increase the income of Estonian people. If Estonia has previously been known for innovation and new solutions in the public sector, then now there is a break in this area, you could even say that there is a regression. As a small country with an open economy, how our businesses are doing on foreign markets is crucial for the functioning of our economy, and also for foreign investors to have an interest in our economy and country. However, a person who does not want, can and can not do the job was appointed Minister for Foreign Trade. This is also the responsibility of the Prime Minister. If we want to get out of the middle income trap, we need to invest more in R &amp; D. At the same time, the Prime Minister will not stand up for increased funding for science and violate the agreement that he himself signed. The Prime Minister's word and signature could still cost something in our country. Jüri Ratas is the prime minister of the government that is going to break up the pension system built for years. This is how this government goes to the confidence of pensioners, which no previous government has done. If the government takes back the promises made to people years ago, people's general confidence in the state will be strengthened, not to mention that the distribution of future incomes is simply irresponsible. We don't have any research and data, we don't listen to experts, it's just a dull political will. And the Prime Minister is responsible. Estonia has so far been a rule of law. The rule of law means that all people are equal before the law. The rule of law also means that society operates according to agreed rules and rules are respected by all, especially those in power. The rules are designed to protect the weaker. In the rule of law, citizens have confidence that there is a separation of powers, and if the rules are violated, they can rely on the police, the prosecutor's office and the court that is independent of political power. In the case of the Elmar Vaher scandal, it is not only wrong that, contrary to the rules, attempts were made to pry the police leader in their position, but also that a government party is trying to control the police, the prosecutor's office and the court. The Prime Minister, however, looks on and lets it happen. According to the press, he's going on Friday night to demand the minister's resignation, but he's going to have to accept a group picture that says he's okay. The Prime Minister is responsible for ensuring that attempts by government ministers to break the rule of law are even possible. We know that the source of many of the problems of this government is the EKRE, but the concern is that the Prime Minister does not pay the floor and the position of the EKRE always remains. After taking office, the Prime Minister has already said 14 times that the behaviour of government ministers is unacceptable and inappropriate and must not be repeated. Yet, we see that this deplorable conduct is repeated. We have often also seen situations when the Prime Minister answers that he does not know what his government ministers are doing. Thus, the Prime Minister did not know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs had concluded advance agreements with Polish and Hungarian colleagues on migration issues. Nor did the Prime Minister know anything about excise agreements with Latvia. The Prime Minister did not even know that the Minister of Finance was going to Europe to represent his own views, not the government's, nor that the Minister of the Interior, through the Minister of Finance, was going to press the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board to resign. If the Prime Minister doesn't know what his ministers are doing and can't enforce their word in the government, he's not the head of this government. This list could be continued for a long time, but it is clear that the Prime Minister is responsible for the government interference. If the infringements or misconduct were individual, the resignation of a particular minister could be requested. However, since these violations are repeated from almost a week to a week, this can only happen with the Prime Minister's approval. The Prime Minister, who lets Estonia be destroyed, is responsible for this, even if it is not because of his active actions, but because of passive watching. Good coalition ambassadors, especially those whose greatest desire is to remain themselves! You're actually embarrassed, and you realize inside that you can't run a country like that. Estonia does not have to be ruled evilly and divided; it can be different. Isn't your cup full of shit? When will you find a conscience that tells you that breaking a hard-built Estonia is wrong and that it is in my hands to stop it? I very much hope that this day has arrived and that you will join the opposition in expressing distrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U6	Thank you. Next, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas of the Speaker's Office!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U7	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu, good colleagues, journalists, lovely Estonian people! On 17 April, I began my presentation in front of the honourable Riigikogu in this very chair by quoting President Lennart Meri from the 1994 New Year's Post. Today I also use his thought and his speech, and not for my own laziness, but for the goodness of his words: "The winter of our disillusionment comes from our impatience. But restoring the state is not pressing the lamp button, from which biblical light is instantly born. The country is born like a child: with pain and pain. But like a child, he is born of love and gives birth to love. " We see that today, more than 25 years later, we have no more patience than we did then. There are no simple solutions to the construction and development of the state, which, with one switch, would lead to major and significant changes. We can only think carefully and work hard and hope that this love will also accompany the steps that have been taken. In the political struggle, it tends to be forgotten that our goal is the same: our beloved Estonia must be a good home and a caring society for everyone, regardless of our place of birth, origin, career, mother tongue, gender, nationality, beliefs or anything else. As a politician and Prime Minister, it has always been important for me to be able to unite Estonia, to level out the gaps in society and to strengthen the link between us all. Over the years, many contradictions have arisen and persisted in our society, despite our best wishes. I have therefore said that the Prime Minister must be a prime minister for all the people of Estonia, not just for his supporters or voters. Neither can there be more right politicians in the government or in the Riigikogu if we have all promised to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Nor can there be more right people in our society if we all have equal rights, freedoms and obligations. I wholeheartedly believe that, as politicians, we will eventually be judged not by what we do for our voters, but by how we treat those in society who feel every day that they have been deprived of something so far. I consider it important to work all the time on behalf of all the people of Estonia and not to divide our country, society into one or the other Estonia. We only have one Estonia and we have nowhere to take you. Honourable listeners! A study by the Ministry of Defence, a regular survey, shows our people's attitude towards the Estonian state and its institutions, as well as their assessments of their lives, as well as many of the issues that are important to all of us. This year they have already published the results of their 45th public opinion monitoring on these issues. An interesting fact has been drawn up in these opinions and national defence studies, from which I have received a great deal of assurance and support in my work. The survey reports show that the estimates of Estonians have improved from year to year, both in terms of views of personal life and confidence, and in terms of attitudes towards our national institutions and important international organisations. In one of the upheavals, researchers have highlighted the end of 2016. In October of that year, the survey concluded that the credibility of our political institutions had fallen considerably. The balance of trust of all Toompea's power institutions fell to the minus side, and the credibility of the Prime Minister was particularly low. Six months later, the following study concluded that the assessment of life in Estonia took place just after the change of government in autumn. The same trends have been confirmed and reiterated since then in subsequent studies. In doing so, I am delighted that we have also seen during this period that the differences between Estonian and Russian speaking attitudes are smoothing. This is true of the Riigikogu, the Government, the Prime Minister and, for example, the European Union and NATO. Their balance of credibility was still high after the Riigikogu elections in the final study. Good fellows! I often expect political and politicians to make quick and quick decisions instead of balanced development, so that chips fly. This was certainly justified a few decades ago when we rebuilt our country after many years, but this is not the case in today's confident Estonia. We also sometimes hear arguments as to why some politicians do not choose to impose their will and enforce sovereignty instead of seeking compromises and cooperation. Neither do I believe that this is part of today's policy; this does not coincide with my children's room or my beliefs, as well as with the experience of leading two successive governments and looking for a common part at the European Council's table. Each department or Member State must make its own decisions in various situations, but also be responsible for the joint outcome. Yeah, we're being commended. If we're praised, our ears will move. However, reverence or warning will cause the hair of a serious Estonian to scurry, as once written by Enn Soosaar. Interesting digression: he noted this in an article in 2007, where he found that the Western press had become strikingly critical of us. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 16 August, the Social Democratic Party announced that it would initiate a mistrust process between the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance. A day later, the Reform Party, after discussing the political situation, replied that censure should be expressed to the Prime Minister, and this at an extraordinary session. Today we are here because, on 26 August, 44 members of the Riigikogu made a written request to convene an extraordinary session in order to express my distrust as Prime Minister. This is the right way and place, because it is in front of the honourable face of the Riigikogu that such political issues need to be discussed. Kaja Kallas, President of the Reform Party, repeatedly pointed out that Estonia does not have a functioning government. At the same time, it was this very week that we made a number of major and important decisions at the government meeting. For example, we agreed on the necessary investments to improve the working conditions of the National Library and the National Archives and to start building a new house for Estonian National Broadcasting. We also decided to contribute to the modernisation of the regional buildings of the Police and Border Guard Board and the renovation of the buildings of the Rescue Board's commandos. In addition, we put resources into building state buildings in our county centres to bring the services provided to local residents comfortably under a single roof. At the same meeting of the government, we set out to give the school greater decision-making power over the conditions for graduating from primary school, and we took steps to ensure that children of other nationalities living in Estonia have the opportunity to acquire good Estonian language, proper education and apply for Estonian citizenship. It is all the more important that the National Audit Office published its report a week ago, which looked at the problems of learning and financing the Estonian language for adults. Important discussions have also recently taken place on the change of the pension system and the provision of resources for extraordinary increases in pensions, with which we want to make the current system more flexible and to bring our elderly out of relative poverty. One important issue that has been on the government table all summer is the situation in the oil shale sector in Ida-Virumaa. We need to find a good way to keep people in work and income there. But we also need to move towards less polluting energy production with great steps towards our home planet and future generations. In its first few months, the current government has dealt with climate and environmental issues much more and more substantively than any previous coalition in the same period. Recently, the governments of the Estonian Centre Party, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Fatherland Party fulfilled one hundred days, for which we fully or partially met 80% of the goals set. The initiative of global Estonians, for example, where we are seriously engaged in shaping nationalist policies and promoting Estonians around the world, deserves special attention here. All our fellow nations, whose lives have taken them far from their homeland, are always welcome back here, either for a moment or forever. In addition, we have launched an Estonian-wide digital registration office, engaged in important developments in electric transport, even by electrifying railways, and we have decided to increase the number of electric trains. We also contribute more seriously to preventing close-relationship violence. At this point, I would also like to thank the Estonian Social Democratic Party, which was part of the previous government, because many of the activities of the current government continue the ideas and initiatives of the government at the time. We carried out the biggest tax reform in our recent history by increasing the tax-free income to EUR 500. We also put the long-awaited additional resources into health care in order to shorten treatment queues and ensure better access to medical care. It is also worth mentioning the administrative reform initiated during the Reform Party's government and carried out by the previous coalition, as well as support for rural areas and the payment of transitional payments to farmers in full. Important activities in making the first pillar of pension more solidarity should also be noted. All these decisions have served precisely the same purpose, namely to build a fairer, more coherent and more solidarity-based state, so that all our people feel that the Estonian state is always there for them, both in small islands and remote municipalities, as well as in county centres and large cities. Cute Estonians! I understand that this coalition doesn't seem easy for many people. I can assure you that we have had many difficult moments between our government partners. They're probably in all governments. It is certainly not easy to come to a government with little experience from the opposition. At the same time, every day I feel the willingness to work together and to find a common ground between my partners. It gives me faith that alongside mistakes and miscalculations, dignified words and serious actions will continue to sound more and more. I said in this Chamber of the Honourable Riigikogu that, together with the support of society, we wish to build a family-friendly Estonia whose society is united, whose economy is successful and knowledge-based, managed effectively and is free and protected. I also stand for the principles that have been very clearly stated today, and I assure all the people of Estonia that I am willing to continue to work patiently on their behalf. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I thank you and wish you strength for our beloved Estonia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U8	Thank you. Now all members of the Riigikogu have the opportunity to ask questions to the Prime Minister. First please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U9	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! You started by comparing yourself to biblical light. At the same time, experts associate you in finance with a constant structural deficit budget, various financial schemes to cover it up, overspending. Security experts will relate you to integration with individual Eastern European countries rather than to the West and North. Has all this happened by accident, or are you proud of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U10	Thank you for your question. First of all, this biblical light, it was a quote from our President Lennart Meri's 1994 New Year's message. Now, the budget's structural minus, structural balance or surplus. I'm sure you know that, but let me go over it. Last autumn, this year's budget was made, but the budget process does not just look at the next year's budget but looks at the future for a longer period of four years. We could clearly see that the budget was structurally balanced, and in the last, fourth year, even a small positive structural surplus was visible. It is true that in April of this year, new calculations were made by the Ministry of Finance, which showed that these forecasts were not valid. There are certainly more reasons than the lower than expected implementation of budgetary revenue, but this meant very difficult discussions on the country's budgetary strategy for the new government. But we were able to achieve the goal. Now, this statement or the accusation that was in your party chairman's presentation that the Prime Minister, like, didn't know either before the elections or on election day or even, I don't know, a week or two after the elections, that the state budget forecast doesn't hold true. That's not true. That's what the Ministry of Finance officials say, they didn't find out until after the election. Now, the Fiscal Council has also said that we need to work together on the fiscal council, the Ministry of Finance and all the parties to understand it more quickly if certain revenue is not realised. Now the other part of your question: security. I understand you're putting Eastern versus Western Europe at stake here. I don't know, frankly, who these security experts are, who's made such a difference at all. That is certainly not true. Today we are in a situation that is truly a service of many governments and Riigikogu: we have eFP Tapa, we have air security in Ämari. At the beginning of August, I think that British Prime Minister Boris Johnson had been in office for ten days with him in London, where he confirmed his strong support for Estonia, dedication, and also confirmed Britain's quest here. But it is clear that when we talk about security and security, we will do so together in the European Union and in NATO together. And it really belongs to countries with different weather maps. So, in my opinion, it is such an arbitrary statement or a desire to serve a political title. I know that there is a Danish contingent coming to us now when the French leave, and we also hope, of course, that cooperation with the French will continue here in Estonia. So we have made a very strong contribution to security, not only by hoping for our partners, but also by doing so ourselves. The same Chamber of Riigikogu has adopted the budget for the year in which defence investments are the largest ever. In my presentation, I referred to the change of government in November 2016. The then government began to make an extra contribution to defence investments by allocating 20 million each year. I think these are all very important and very correct steps. Security is an issue that I do not think can be answered briefly, and this is where we need to look at it in length. We have seriously discussed the participation in foreign missions in the government, and I very much hope that the Riigikogu will support Estonia's active contribution outside Estonia with our allies, be it in Afghanistan, be it in Mali. So the question of security has certainly been raised very rightly, only this arbitrary exercise on the scales of the East versus the West, let us not oppose them!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U11	Thank you. Next question, Taavi Clothe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U12	Thank you. However, according to the Reply, defence costs as a percentage of GDP have decreased significantly in recent years compared to 2016 levels, for example. But a few years ago, Madeleine Albright wrote a book called Fascism. Warning' and not only from Hitler's and Mussolini's time, he also gives a lot of examples of modern times. The people who have read this book are likely to know in an instant why most European politicians are doing their utmost to prevent extremism from ever becoming a dominant ideology again. On the day of your appointment, Kaja Kallas gave you an Estonian translation of this book. My first question to you is very simple: Have you read this book? And since you quoted Lennart Meri, you may have heard this quote from Lennart Meri: 'The imagination that the time of the Stalinites and the Hitlers has passed is dangerous. '
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U13	Thank you. The answer to the question: no, I have not read the book.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U14	Thank you. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U15	Thank you. Good Mr. Ratas! It is no big secret that the Central Party and the EKRE government were born with the support of one of the most influential members of the Central Party, Mikhail Kõlvart, and will last just as long as it suits him and his team. That's why he's said it himself. On 4 June this year, he said such sentences in Baltnews, who was pro-Criminian: 'The most important factor was the clear understanding that it was the only way to maintain Russian-language education in Estonia. I stress: the only one! " My question is: Does the Speaker tell the truth that there is an agreement to maintain education in Russian? What are the plans of the Centre Party and the government in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U16	Thank you. I was just wondering why you're bringing the Speaker out like that. I think you're doing good things in the City Council of Tallinn. You had a serious discussion about bringing the flag to the council hall, dragged by both the Speaker and Michal. You can see the flag in the Tallinn Council Hall. But the current coalition is a coalition with three partners, including the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Fatherland Party and the Centre Party. As far as language policy and education policy are concerned, these issues have, in my opinion, been very important for this coalition, a priority. I think we didn't spend the most time on this in the negotiations, but we've been doing this for the first three or four months. It is not because of the wishes of all three partners that we want the teaching of Estonian in Estonia to improve every day; we contribute strongly to this. And not just that. Our steps are not only related to upper secondary school; our steps are also related to primary school, kindergarten. The same study that I mentioned in my presentation and where the National Audit Office said that there are problems with learning the Estonian language of our adults. I think that this is the subject that the Minister for Education and Research will bring together other ministers, because this area concerns the five ministries in the near future, so that we can discuss it. So it is a common desire for children who speak other languages or other languages to receive a much better, more intensive education in the Estonian language, in such a way that nothing is taken away from them. This has really been the essence of this coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U17	Thank you very much. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U18	Thank you. Prime Minister! Your main partner in the coalition recently called the singing revolution mass hysteria, insulting hundreds of thousands of people across Estonia who contributed to our bloodless release. The fact that he will continue as a member of the cabinet proves that your other government is not opposed to this approach. Why? What's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U19	Thank you for this question. I understand it's kind of easy to say who's the main partner or not. But three partners are in the government coalition. This interview, which you are talking about, first of all, is the general idea that the singing revolution in Estonia was something very extraordinary, something very unique, with enormous support from the Estonian people, commitment. All this pro-active activity at various events, be it the night-song parties, be it the village meetings in the community houses. Paslik was here in the Riigikogu speech chair 30 years ago to remember the passing of the Baltic Way. Speaking of this interview, we always want to read the answers, which now seems to be the place of a political attack. We are talking about an interview with the Minister of the Interior, Mart Helme, where, of course, when he answers the following questions, he rejected or even rejected this argument. And after that, the EKRE also said on social media that he had never thought of it that way. And that's what the next or the next day, or, let's say, at the next government press conference at Stenbock's house, Martin Helme, Minister of Finance. So there is no basis for these words, and that has never been the point of the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U20	Mr. George Ratas! The lines of your government, however negative, are living at the expense of the future. And at a time when tax receipts are among the greatest ever due to entrepreneurs and economic economy. One striking example is the planned dismantling of the second pension pillar. It's not reform, it's vandalism. And that is not what I say as an opposition ambassador, said by Mr Ardo Hansson, who led the Bank of Estonia for seven years. He added: this reform is very painful for the poorer people. Why are you putting your hand in future pensioners' pockets, George? As a result, their pension will be reduced by about a third in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U21	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U22	Thank you. First of all, economic indicators. Yes, the economic indicators are really good today. In the first quarter, we had growth of 4.5%, the second quarter being about 3.6% of GDP, as far as I know. When it comes to the second pension pillar, I often think that it is your home party that has always talked about freedom and that people must be able to decide for themselves that people themselves are the best decision-makers. We are taking an excellent tax-free minimum reform of EUR 500, which initially found quite a lot of criticism from your party. But now you have, I believe, realized that it was a good and right thing. We actually saw how many people correctly accounted for and forecasted their income in a conservative way rather than recorded a tax-free minimum. At the time, it was strongly argued that I remember the debate before the Riigikogu elections, that it increases the share of envelope wages in society. Some time ago, however, news came out that it had actually reduced this proportion. Now, the other pension pillar. You're saying we're gonna break it. I'm saying it's becoming a volunteer. Each person can decide for himself (a) whether he or she will continue to participate or (b) step out of there. And we have also foreseen that a certain period of time will be possible to change our decision. Ten years from now, you can decide whether to come in again or step out again. I think it should give people more freedom, more opportunity to decide how they want to use their savings. Certainly, making the second pension pillar voluntary must go hand in hand with looking at the first pension pillar. After all, we cannot ignore the fact that over 50% of our elderly live in relative poverty. I'm sure we'll have to contribute more to the first pension. But I don't agree that it is, I don't know, a criminal plan or that this pillar will be broken. No, you won't! Those who wish can continue. Those who wish to use their savings differently, such as investing their money as they see fit. So I think that bringing more flexibility to society is the right step. I'm sure the government will go on with this. And I also ask for serious discussions here in the Riigikogu in the autumn of this year to discuss this bill and make a good decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U23	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U24	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! Double doesn't rumble. It is said that the most urgent undertaking of the current government is the reform of the second pension pillar, which, as has already been mentioned here, is also called breaking or scrapping. The pace of this process has been so high that no in-depth impact assessments or expertise have been carried out, yet the law and, above all, common sense require it. Here's my question. Once, when you're an older man and you have to answer the future generation, what did you do with that second pillar while you were Prime Minister, what do you say? Is this because of the coalition, or Mr Seeder's compulsion, a change of thinking, a lack of money, short-sightedness, which will not allow any impact on the confidence of future pensioners to be seen, or simply a political advance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U25	Thank you. Two things first. First of all, the speed you indicated. It is true that this government and the coalition are in a hurry in a good way. There are many things that need to be resolved across Estonia. You can't just sit here with your hands up. We've got to do it! And that's what the government has shown for a hundred days. I brought out a lot of investment, didn't I? How much debate has been about the National Library, whether there will be repairs or not. As a TV person, you certainly know much better the state of these studios. So this government has taken very big and fundamental steps. Yesterday we had a very substantive and interesting debate in Piusa. We were talking about building the eastern border. Once again, we made a very concrete and clear decision on how to proceed with this. Secondly, you gave me selective choices, a highly respected member of the Riigikogu, and all the selections were negative. Sometimes multiple choices also give the option 'other', in which case you can write anything, but you only had bad answers. I guess I'll answer that in the future, as I answered the previous question: it's the people's own decision. It is the people's own decision what they do with their savings or what they do with the second pillar. I know that one very respected Estonian person who is currently working in Brussels, as far as I know, has said that he is about to end the second pension pillar and wants to get that money right away. Of course, I don't know how many euros he has there, tens or hundreds or thousands. I have said the opposite again, that I want to continue. We're talking about Andrus Ansip, he says he's gonna take that money out right now. Maybe he needs to take, maybe he has something that needs to be fixed, maybe he wants to invest this money in a different way, has found a much smarter, more innovative way. Let's not upset people about that! I think people get more freedom to make their decisions. I said earlier in reply to Mr Kivimäe that in relation to the very positive initiative of the 500 euros tax-free minimum, the people of Estonia are actually making very, I would say, conservative, thoughtful and balanced decisions about money. This has been shown by how people predicted their incomes. 90% of the people, if I'm not mistaken, correctly predicted, a very small part actually went down with its prognosis.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U26	Thank you. Kalle Laane next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U27	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! The Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board is appointed and dismissed by the Government of the Republic. The government of the Republic is governed by you, George Ratas. In November the Estonian police will celebrate their 101st birthday. After that, will Elmar Vaher continue in office or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U28	Thank you. Well, I understand it's such a question to a psychic. I'm not psychic. But everything you said is right. Of course, the Government of the Republic appoints and dismisses the Director General of the PBGB. To this day, I do not have any substantive evidence that he has broken the law or voluntarily filed a resignation, which a person can always do. If you ask whether the normal situation or the normal situation continues, I will say that, of course, he will continue in his post. But if he comes up with a statement at one point or something else happens... I can't assure you of anything with 100% certainty. But under normal circumstances, in the case of a reasonable approach, of course, will continue.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U29	A grain of Thomas, please! Sorry, I jumped! Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U30	Thank you. You told us again today about creating a caring and cohesive society for everyone. Do you think that women's doctors, childguards, journalists, scientists, alumni of Tallinn University, police officers, do they feel that they belong to all those in Estonia who deserve a caring attitude? Let me remind you that all these social groups have been unjustly and rudely insulted at the level of your government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U31	Thank you. Of course, they belong to all of them - absolutely, 100%. If we say something wrong or do something wrong, it doesn't mean that now this group, I don't know, for example, the University of Tallinn will be cut out. No, you don't! On the contrary! Then you have to correct what you say and move on. Of course they do! In any case, they are, and I think you and I are trying to build a society like this so that everyone here feels that it is our Estonia. After all, we have nowhere to take another Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U32	Thank you very much. And now Vilja Toomas has a chance to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U33	Thank you! Mr. Ratas! I'm risking you mocking me again before you get to the answer, but one thing really hurts me. Heljo Pikhof already touched on that, but I didn't get the answer to how you really feel about it. Let this Neomats Mart Helme, your coalition partner, continue to grow his bulls, that's why. But more than that, I was hurt by the way you reacted. You said you can't do that, that's unacceptable. And that was it. This reply reminded me that on the evening of August 19, 1991, I had just become 29 years old, not just just a little while ago, and my daughter had not even been ten months old. And I drove a boat from Finland to Estonia through a bay full of Soviet warships, and I was not afraid because I knew I had to come because there is no other way, because Estonia has the chance to be free. And I can...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U34	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U35	And so did a lot of other Estonian people who did not feel afraid and made their choices. Tell me now, Jüri Ratas, why do you let your government hurt hundreds of thousands of people who fought for Estonia without fear of risking their lives if necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U36	Let's just stick to the schedule, please. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U37	Why are you letting me hurt you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U38	Thank you. I certainly have never thought of disparaging or taunting anyone. I certainly never did this on purpose. I think you took very important steps for the future of Estonia in these hours and these days. I really think so. And I think that by your side and by my side, who I was then a boy, there were a lot of Estonians and other Estonians. And it was, as I said earlier, something unique and unique. Now, you said you were offended or angry with my behavior or my reaction. I have already said out loud, and I am also saying here that I think it was a very big thing that the Estonian people together did, we call it a singing revolution. It was done, of course, in this Chamber, in the Supreme Council at the time, but it was also done outside this Chamber. There were different movements, different congresses, but one thing was actually being achieved: Estonia's independence. And once again, when the Minister of the Interior answered the questions that followed in this interview, he no longer spoke of the singing revolution as mass hysteria. On the contrary, the members of the government of this party said that they, in any case, consider the singing revolution to be very important. I think that's what we're going to have to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U39	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U40	Thank you. Good George Ratas, I will continue on the second pillar. You spoke of the importance of people having more freedom, the right to decide for themselves. The central element in this debate on pensions is the distribution of second pillar money or the possibility to do so. Freedom, which I support with two hands, is always accompanied by financial responsibility and responsibility. You've already designed thoughts on how anything could be done. It has also received very critical assessments from experts from Eesti Pank, the International Monetary Fund, and today there are additional entrepreneurs. I have a very simple question: what impact analyses have you used in planning this reform and where can these impact analyses be read from?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U41	Thank you. How interesting: on the one hand, in a few hours you will have to decide on my mistrust, because this government will do nothing. I listened to your chairman's speech: nothing is happening or bad things are happening. When I heard that speech, I began to wonder what country he was describing, and I couldn't think of it. Now you say the government is in business. That is the opposite: which one do we make, do we make decisions or do we do nothing? I think you're losing your mind here. You're asking for impact assessments. The question is, on the one hand, how many theoretically there are people who have the second pillar today and how many people could come out of it. The economic indicators, the fiscal indicators, must certainly be analysed as much as possible. But it is also clear that to carry out such impact analyses, I don't know, in terms of 20, 25 or 30 years, it is quite complicated, if not impossible. You smiling yourself, as a finance man, you know that well. Two ministries are currently mainly involved in these analyses: the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. I am absolutely convinced that as soon as they complete these things, they will share them with both you and the Estonian public.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U42	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U43	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, good George! I'm a little concerned about our security environment, I'd like to discuss it with you for a while. How do you think we should move on? For example, at the press conference of the Government of the Republic on 13 June this year, you and the Minister of Justice clearly stated that you would support the continuation of Lavly Perling as the State Attorney General. Today, we heard here in front of this House in a meeting of your support from Peeter Ernits that Lavly Perling will certainly not continue as the Attorney General. Similarly, when there was a problem with Elmar Vaher, you said that Vaher and Helme would meet on Wednesday. Helme whistled at it and said I'd see you when I had the time to meet you Thursday. And you went to the Helmed, not they came to you. How much longer can you suffer and live in a situation where the Helmed and the EKRE dictate to you what you have to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U44	Thank you for this very constructive and good question. I replied to that in my report, I think it was a penultimate sentence. But I can read it again anyway. I also stand for the principles stated very clearly today and assure all the people of Estonia that I am willing to continue to work patiently on their behalf. But then we'll come up with a slice of all the claims that, good Hanno, were on your question. You say you're worried about Estonia's security, more specifically, a little worried. It's a good thing you're a little worried, not much to worry about, because things are moving in the right direction and on the right road. What have we got? I am not going to repeat what I said here earlier, but I think we must also be sure that more young people come into service. The government office received an overview of this from the Ministry of Defence some time ago. You can see that there is a small increase. As we know, we changed certain medical requirements so that more young people would enter the service. I think it's good, it's positive. In my opinion, all kinds of joint exercises have been stepped up, especially this summer the exercises of the British here and the exercises of our other allies. This shows that Estonia is trusted. This quite frankly paints a completely different picture of Estonia when some of the questioners have painted here. It paints a picture of us being trusted, they want us to work together. I'm sure it's going to be very interesting, 3/4. The NATO summit, which will take place in London on 12 December, is a very fundamental meeting. It is very strongly linked to our security, we cannot overcome or overcome this fact. The fact that we can say at the end of 2019 that there will now be more than in 2017 for those countries that contribute at least 2% is very good. I have had several meetings with the NATO Secretary General. He has also asked Estonia to share its positive experience, calling on countries to contribute more. We can see that the Baltic States - Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia - all contribute more than 2%. I think this is very good and gives us confidence. The Defence Forces, the Defence League, I can see they're developing every day and in a good direction. Now, the State Attorney General you asked about. He'll have his term of office. According to the law, a candidate for the Prosecutor General of the State will be presented to the government by the Minister of Justice. He will certainly do so during the autumn period, trying to find the best solution to fill this position. You were also concerned about why I went to Martin Helme's cottage. The reason is very simple: the Centre Party had summer days in Varuurru. We are indeed, without joke, a party that supports close to nature, green thinking. And why would we have to drive cars from that Varemurru, I don't know, at Stenbock's house when I could go a hundred meters away to meet Martin and Mart Helme? Of course, I went there, and I met them there, and I didn't splatter more than a hundred kilometers from one place to another. And then you'll be upset about why the Minister of the Interior and Elmar Vaher met on Thursday and not Wednesday. It was about the principle, Hanno, that when Mart Helme's vacation ends, he's going to meet Vaher as soon as possible. I guess they didn't get an appointment. I really can't tell you why they met on Thursday, not Wednesday. All in all, it was a good meeting. They went to the border together. And yesterday we were in the same room together, working together.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U45	Thank you. Ants, Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U46	Thank you. Prime Minister! Hardly became a minister, Martin Helme violated Estonia in the European Union, representing his mandate, which had been given to him by the government and the Riigikogu. He was alone with his wishes in Europe. You later said the minister made a procedural mistake. Only! Martin Helme's star disease, working as a minister, is demonstrated by his brawl at Matt's Strawberry, a service official at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I quote, "Who do you think you are? To end this government, we are. " They want to end the country. Martin Helme's incompetence in governing the state was also demonstrated by his so-called campaign to the Ministry of the Interior, where he made a request for departure to the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board without any authority or legal authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U47	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U48	It is international practice that a minister who has compromised himself or the country resigns, either on his own or at the request of the Prime Minister. You smoothed it all out, pretending nothing happened...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U49	Question, please! Time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U50	Question: how do you comment on your behaviour and decisions, let's say, in the choice and discipline of incompetent ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U51	Well, thank you. Thank you for this very serious question. I'll try to start answering it. First of all, it was about the Council of the European Union and the vote by the Minister of Finance there. The truth is that it is a little complicated how we have agreed on these things in our own country. At the moment, my own experience tells me that there have been certain European Council meetings, where the Council is going away from Estonia's position. It has always been our desire to seek consensus. In principle, the procedure is that I will present the example of the Prime Minister with the Minister for Industry and with the Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs. If there is a dobro, then in principle it can be said that the decision of ELAK may be taken, but the Commission for European Union Affairs must go as soon as possible and justify it. I've had a case like this, but we didn't miss it that time. Our concentration revealed that we are not taking a different position from ELAK. This time I told you right away that we were sticking to our position, and I sent a letter to that effect. Martin and I talked about this. I think that this case actually goes into the line that I have already talked about: it is all complicated when you come from the opposition to the coalition and directly to the government. There are Council meetings, sittings in Brussels. All this procedure from day one is hard to figure out. It's been difficult for me too. Of course I should have called, consulted. It's been canceled. But at all, it's not a bad thing that we sometimes have to go over these positions. But yes, it is true that we should have this conversation with either the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister. And I think that the Chair of the Committee on European Union Affairs should also send this dobro and, as soon as possible after that, come to the Committee on European Union Affairs. So that was the question. You mentioned a variety of other topics. I want to tell you, Mr. Laaneots: don't worry, the coalition is busy. The coalition is working, stands for Estonian society, for Estonian people. As I said, the coalition is for more attention to be paid to diasporas outside Estonia, so that the Estonian people come back here so that we can be bound by stronger connections, stronger bridges. So I think things are going pretty well right now. The coalition can also make complex decisions. I'll give you another example of yesterday's border visit. Still, let's just say, your eye is king. We wanted to see what was happening at the border and make decisions after that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U52	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U53	Mr. Ratas! Yesterday or the day before yesterday, Finance Minister Martin Helme came to the public with a very interesting proposal to build a four-line road, involving private capital with a well-known public-private partnership model, with very different experience. There is also experience in Tallinn, and there is experience elsewhere in Europe. Some have succeeded, some have failed. Firstly, are you familiar with this proposal and, if so, does this mean, for example, the emergence of paid roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U54	Thank you, Mr Kallas. First of all, I'm sorry I didn't see you when we met the former prime ministers in Stenbock. I'm sorry you couldn't make it. Very sad, many of your colleagues were waiting for you. It was a very interesting conversation again. Now this PPP. I totally agree with what you said. Some have succeeded and some have failed. We can see that there have been very few PPP projects in Estonia. Well, there are schools, as you said, in Tallinn. I remember myself, at that time I had the honour of working in this municipality, and when we considered this decision for the first schools in 2005 and 2006, it was the case that the weights had time on one side and the cost on the other side for the taxpayer. And the cost to the taxpayer is, as a rule, always higher in the case of PPP than if the state were to start doing it itself. But the second component of the weight is time. I'm sure the councilman sitting next to you, Mr. Michal, knows better about Tallinn, but the second decision would have meant that it would have taken more than half a century to put these schools in order, I don't know. Well, we don't have time to wait for this. So then this PPP was selected. These schools were fixed, and I think it was the right decision from the point of view of children, parents and the school environment. If you're asking me if I'm familiar with Martin Helme's idea of applying PPPs to build four-line roads, then yes, we talked about it yesterday. If you want to know if this means that the roads are now going to be paid, I'll say that we haven't had such detailed conversations. But I think it's important to have these conversations. It is clear that it is also the wish of the Minister of Finance that we do not build our main highway Tallinn-Narva, Tallinn-Pärnu--no this same Via Baltica, we have talked about this for 30 years and Tallinn-Tartu for another 30 years. This pace should be faster. This can't go, I think, ten times faster than 30 years, but maybe three times faster could be done. Unfortunately, tea and construction companies have a certain capacitance, certain volumes that they can realise. So I think we should consider it anyway. I am certainly prepared to discuss this, but today it is not possible to answer whether the roads will be paid, whether there will be another way aside, how much of this PPP will overlap. There will certainly be property issues, whose balance sheet will form part of the way. These discussions must all be held down. We're ready for that, but I think it's an alternative to building these connections faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U55	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U56	Prime Minister! I have worked for a long time as a social teacher and have always told my students and told them how important it is to keep a democratic society, how important it is in a democratic society, that members of the government observe the separation of powers and the rule of law. The two ministers of your government have insulted almost all Estonian social groups. These same ministers have tried to fire the police leader in a serious breach of the rule of law. I would like to ask: what kind of example do you think, Prime Minister, Mr Helmed and your government will show today's young people who will eventually lead the Estonian state after you?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U57	Thank you. And certainly, Mr. Juske, not just for the work you've done as a school pad and a social teacher. I would also say that maybe I'm hurting somebody now, but if you think about the crowded tours of the Old Town of Tallinn, maybe after Mart Laari, you're the only one who can grab such a large mass now. In a positive way, of course. Well, maybe Jüri Kuuskemaa, too, I don't know. Anyway, it's a very good job you're doing when you introduce Tallinn. And you have also been familiar with Tallinn for a long time. Now for the rule of law. Of course, the rule of law was, has and will remain. In any case, we must make every effort to strengthen the foundations of the rule of law. Certainly, as you said, the school system, the education system, will also play an important role in this. You gave me another example of the director-general of the Police and Border Guard Board. I've answered that question. I remember that if I had the honour of going to work in the Riigikogu, an official taught me with good and wise words: if you chair this sitting here, there must be a beginning and an end to everything. Now, if we're talking about this p.P.A. case, how long is this gonna last? I understand that you must ask as representatives of the opposition, and that is correct, but I assure you: I am defending the rule of law one hundred percent. The issue of the PBA is over for me, the Minister and the head of the PBGB are cooperating, moving forward in the areas of internal security. Big things are coming up: building the border, strengthening the border guard under the PBGB, definitely better teaching of people at the border, so-called border guards at the National Defence Academy, building a reserve for difficult moments of crisis. We'll go on with all of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U58	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U59	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! You've been Prime Minister for three years, and the economy has been bright at that time. But the budget is down, as you say, below the zeros, from any position to look at. When you started here in the first few years, you said that the budget could be downgraded, you justified it by investments. You developed a public investment programme and there were three components: some were still there, but the main ones were Tallinn city hall, Haapsalu railway and the state rental housing programme. The budget is down, it's done, but things are bad with the investment program. Next year it'll be four years, but the city hall hasn't even had a PPP project. The Haapsalu railway has been completed only five kilometres in three years, and the national rental housing programme is in the shadow of death. I ask you: will we see next year that the construction work on the city hall site will begin there to set up a conference centre? And how many kilometers will the Haapsalu railway be completed next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U60	First of all, I don't know if we're all human and, Mr Sõerd, I'm happy to meet you here again after the intersessions of the Riigikogu. You're positive, you're good, you're smiling, I'm trying to smile back. You're gonna have to smile back more. So that's great. I think it's great that you keep me and the whole government on a rope in a good way or tense all the time, referring to important issues that you have in your heart. I want to say that you have become, in the opposition, one of the biggest supporters and partners of this government. I think the city hall needs to go a lot faster. You are well aware of this, having also been active in business, in the hotel sector. You know how important it is to bring tourists to Estonia and to have a proper conference and concert centre. I actually think, Mr Sõerd, that we could think about another function of the city hall. We haven't decided this, but I know it's said in society that sometimes operas could be performed in the city hall. This is one of the topics that we could discuss with you, because in the music field you are a cryptic, I know that. Now, let's go, rental homes. You asked an enthusiastic question about how they are, whether or not it is moving forward. You are concerned about this, I am also concerned, but I was reassured by the information I received during summer visits here in Estonia, for example, in Muhu County. The municipal leaders of Muhumaa said it was great that this rental housing program came. After that, I took out the data and I dare say that there are, I think, 20 or 25 municipalities across Estonia who have received support in one way or another in the last few years. So the program isn't in the shadows, it's on, Aivar. Work is under way, these houses are being built, apartments are being built. The parish leaders are very positive and they say they see that people can return to their centers. Whether they're teachers, they're internal security or medical personnel. That's very good. So I can say it's more of a plus side. You also asked about the city hall: will construction begin next year? This really depends on the authorisation of State aid. That's right. After all, we cannot, if there is a rule of law, only here was the rule of law asked about the foundations of the rule of law, to sputter ahead of the rule of law. We must continue to be guided by the regulations that we have agreed on. You asked why the city hall wasn't made with PPPs. Well, a perfectly legitimate question! I, too, once wished the city hall could be done with the PPP. We placed this procurement on the market, but there were no interested parties. I remember that Jüri Manor must have been one of the first city leaders in Tallinn to come out with a plan to renovate the city hall. At the time, they wanted to sell it for 1 crown. Well, there were no interested parties. Then they tried to add up the next pieces of land to fix the city hall. Still no interest. So the fact that the country and the city are moving forward with this fix is, in my opinion, the right thing to do. You completely forgot, and this isn't the crazy one, the investment plan we made. The increase in defence investments will continue, every year you will see that there are 20 million more in the state budget. In summary, I want to say: keep an eye on strategic investments! With Haapsalu railroad, it's going well. And if you don't mind, let's not talk about Haapsalu! I would talk about the Rohuküla railroad, because I think there is a need to increase ambition. The people of the peat will soon be able to travel safely by train, and the financial opportunities will have to be reviewed and moved forward. You shouldn't laugh at all here, there are certain things that are very much involved. We talk all the time about how important it is to contribute to the environment, to the environment. We know that we need to take steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in energy, transport, agriculture. That's transport. The goal is electrification. How long do cars spread between Haapsalu and Tallinn? Good rail travel is better for the environment and more comfortable for people. So we're going to keep going. But keep an eye on this, don't let the tension down in a good way!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U61	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U62	Thank you. Mr Jüri Ratas, first of all, let me make a point. It's not polite to get personal about the questioner in your answers. But now my question. Listening to your answers and speeches, I have the impression that you do not understand the problem. It is not a question of your views and your opinions. The question and the problem is that you are not doing anything by allowing your government members to insult, mock people, very different social groups. The offenders have never apologized, but have only justified their views. It might be over for you. It's not for people. Do you understand the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U63	Thank you. I'm really sorry, but Aivar gave me honey on the street before the campaign, we get along well with him, talk to him, talk about the development of Randvere village. Well, why am I pretending that we personally know each other badly? But I'm sorry if it somehow resisted you. Hurting someone or saying bad things isn't good. But you have just hinted to the EKRE Ministers that they have not apologized, they have not said that they did anything wrong. Yes, he has! Why do you say that? In the case of the pa chance, in the case of the singing revolution, in the case of the same vote there in Brussels, they have said that things must be handled differently in the future. And when you say I don't understand what's going on here, I understand exactly what's going on here. I said in my report that this is politics. And that's true. There's opposition and there's coalition. The opposition wants to say that they are better than the crack coalition. And that's understandable. It is not a complaint to you, it is a political struggle and political competition. And this is the place where this fight must be fought in inter-election times. This competition is in this hall all the time, all these hours, all these days, all these months and all these years for four years. And competition is for someone who can agree. And whoever can get the majority, it makes the coalition. This has been the case since the restoration of independence. True, we have had minority governments for a short time. I remember that a member of the Greens back in some formations supported the government as the 51st vote. There have been such things. And what you're doing, I also understand your understanding. I named what we've done in a hundred days. I think we could have, I don't know, gold bridges and what's still built, still would be bad. Of course, there have been problems. I told you there have been concerns, there have been wrong sayings and things, including me. But I can't say that everything is just one big black hole and nothing else is. There are a lot of good things done in Estonia and we will definitely go on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U64	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U65	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You said nicely in your speech that there can be no politicians in the government that are better than the others. I totally agree with that. At the same time, not every person is fit to be a teacher, a deminator, a secretary, a concert pianist. Certain personal qualities are also needed to hold a certain profession. For example, there are a number of former ministers in this Chamber. I don't share the world view of many of them. I wouldn't make the decisions they've made. I'm criticizing the decisions they've made. But I trust them to serve as ministers. I think they work for Estonia. But, for example, Ants Laaneots and Siim Kallas have described the learning curve very suddenly by Martin Helme. Yes, I agree that it may be difficult to gain this experience. But it's not really about experience or lack of experience. It's precisely about human qualities...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U66	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U67	...in beliefs and behavior. Do you really think that a minister who speaks of a struggle against officials who consider officials to be insubordinate, a duty biased and a law restricting his or her freedom of action is suitable in Estonia to perform his or her ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U68	Thank you. First of all, Riina, I congratulate you: you have not only become a good, sweet and good fellow, but you have also become a powerful politician who can ask rhetorical questions. You know very well that when a coalition has been formed, there is such an unwritten rule that those partners who belong to the coalition appoint their people to the government. You named Mr. Kallas. If I'm not mistaken, I think maybe some prime minister candidate before, maybe the prime minister said that this or the other one wouldn't fit, that I wouldn't take them into my office. But these are very few cases. My example, which I mean, is likely to remain 17 years ago. Rather, it is based on the fact that each party appoints its own people to the government. And it's accepted. That's right. I guess every party has their own electoral processes. Whether everything always goes through the board or the council, I don't know how anyone does. But it's not quite the way one says, and that's how it goes. I'm sure it's all at a much wider bottom. But my answer to you is very simple. You asked me if I trusted this government, its members. Of course I do. I understand you wanted to say with your question that you have trusted all the ministers until the current government came into existence. I share your position, but I can assure you that I also trust the ministers of this government. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U69	Thank you. Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U70	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Prime Minister, hello! I hope you've had a good summer and you've had some rest. Some of your close fellow fighters, such as Tanel Kiik, have said that the problem is that these people from the EKRE are simply somewhat inexperienced, that it is going to be this constant abuse of people, insulting, trying to let go of the police leader illegally, etc. There's just no experience. Well, I suggest you consider an alternative explanation: maybe they're just bad people, bastards. But here's my question. I've heard that the Centre Party and you have had the opportunity to discuss an alternative coalition, one that responds a little more to people's expectations and that doesn't always fail. Then there wouldn't be such trouble all the time. Why has all these proposals been rejected? Why are you not even willing to consider the possibility of forming a government with reasonable leadership with reasonable people?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U71	Thank you. Look, Raimond, I don't know if I'm as reasonable and as good as you are. Your question turns out you're the light and the right way, and I don't know if I can compete with it. I'm vicious, I'm sure I have vices. And here comes, I think, this different understanding of society and politics. I have given, I think, ten years, maybe even 12 years, lessons in social studies on the subject 'My or our Estonia'. And its axis has always been whether we are saying that Estonian society is our society or that it is a self-centered, individual-centered society. I always thought it was our center. To say someone's bad and someone's good, I can't say it in this hall. Here are 101 very honorable women and men, the best chosen by the highest authority. That's right, that's our election system. Some take a turn on this journey, leave the Riigikogu. I see Mr. Palling is here. It's sad to read that he's going away, but it's also great that he's going into business and shows that young people have faith in entrepreneurship today. That's good, that's positive. But coming back to your question, what are you thinking? We have a coalition, there's a Central Party inside, so are we going to do a new coalition? I'm not going to make a new coalition! We have a coalition that works, and it's important. We have a coalition that does good things. It's important. This coalition has a working capacity. It's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U72	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U73	In my opinion, it is usually the case that when an answerer becomes unnecessarily personal to the questioners, it shows a little bit of his uncertainty. I guess that's what you're gonna tell me about your answers today. But the current government of EKRE, which is pushed-over, is problematic because you essentially take the future from the Estonian people by pieces. You take the future from young people through the backward climate policy of the EKRE, from old people through the destruction of the pension system, and ultimately from us all through the undermining of Estonia's allies, damaging international image, undermining the rule of law and creating a monetary hole. And these are the reasons why we mistrust the government that dominates the EKRE. Are you willing to give up such a policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U74	Thank you, Keit! I'll answer all the questions you've asked. You mentioned why you're against this coalition. You brought out the dominance of the EKRE and said that there were issues where you think we're going back. You mentioned climate and environmental issues. I think, and I say this with absolute conviction, that as seriously as we have not dealt with environmental issues, including the 2030 and 2050 targets, any other government within a hundred days. And I assure you, we will continue to deal with them. In the field of the environment, we have made quite large-scale and fundamental decisions to promote the move towards climate neutrality and to reduce greenhouse gases, in particular CO2, as well as others, such as F-gases. I have already mentioned and mentioned the electrification of infrastructure a few times, but also, for example, greater public support for electric cars when they are acquired by private and legal entities, and the construction of bicycle routes. In agriculture, it is important for us to be able to apply more precision fertilisation, to use more mechanisms that would pollute the environment less. Speaking of wind energy, I believe you remember and know how much domestic confrontation really is between the defence and energy sectors. And the balance between them has never been found. This was also the reason why I wanted to set up a Committee on Climate and Energy: it was necessary to get all the relevant ministers and areas to a common table. The problem is that, on the one hand, we have issues of national defence, and they are important, and, on the other hand, there is a huge local opposition to wind farms. It is quite difficult to find a solution at all to where to build them and, later on, the investor who would build them. You brought in the topic of Estonia's international reputation. You certainly have many contacts thanks to your former work and now being a member of the Riigikogu Foreign Affairs Committee, and I also have many contacts. I can say for sure that our allies will continue to support us and very strongly. They are willing to contribute more in the area of security. I've told you that many times today. So the United States, so France, so Great Britain, so Denmark, everything is very important to us. Estonia's desire to be on the world security map, more active in ensuring world security, is also a very important direction for this government. This means increasing participation in certain foreign missions, that is, your mandate, which can only be given by you. With regard to economic relations, I think that now that the Estonian Presidency and the 'Estonian Republic 100' programme are over, we are taking the direction of going more and more out of Estonia with our delegations to find and help establish business contacts. The last very serious and substantive meeting took place with the Indian Vice-President. In the process, we agreed that we would try to promote communication between business delegations. I know that both EAS and MKM have this interest in Estonia. I think these are the directions that we really want to develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U75	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U76	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! I would also like to talk about international feedback, about which Kaja Kallas pointed out very critical articles with a negative attitude in many publications. Of course, I'm sure your advisors can put together a different list. After all, in your previous reply, you confirmed that we have good alliances. External relations are based both on geopolitical interests and on the relations of the Heads of State, well, we hear that they are good, but they are also based on the general opinion that has developed in other countries. This opinion cannot be overlooked sooner or later by the allies. I'm researching how much you think and analyse based on the international feedback that glows out of the press.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U77	Thank you. There are two ways in which this international feedback is expressed. One is what you mentioned: the press. And the other is really good relations with the heads of state, let's say, with the people who are finally making decisions. Do I count on feedback? Of course I do. I'm also a man of flesh and blood, and I still read these articles. If something bad is said about Estonia, both abroad and at home, it still matters, it matters. Why doesn't he go? But if you ask whether in foreign communication, defence cooperation has started to treat Estonia differently in any way, then I have not experienced it. It is usually the case that the Heads of State ask after the elections when the new government is in office, what is the situation, how are you doing? After all, in this coalition we have confirmed in our coalition agreement that we will continue to support Estonia's current foreign policy direction. I'm still reading these opinions, but the good thing is that allies are really getting stronger today, Mr. Jaanson. It's important, it's very important. It's the last news coming from Poland that the United States is betting more on it. This is good news for this region. Sorry, let me just say one more point that was left unsaid in the answer to the previous question. Good Keit, I was thinking about breaking the future or taking away the pieces you were talking about. I thought that both this and the previous government have contributed very much to child support, we have contributed to the support of families with many children. In my opinion, by increasing child benefits, we have made our future more secure. I wanted to bring it to the nuance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U78	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U79	Mr. Ratas! There is a saying in Estonia that you should behave according to what I have done, not what I have said. I'm coming back to the police chief's illegal rapture attempt. In fact, neither Martin nor Mart Helme has basically apologized for this. They commented for a moment that maybe a man, Prime Minister, really stayed in an information lock. It actually shows very clearly that you have no authority in the government, which shows that you are not being taken into account. We will mention the previous cases: you have said that you support Lavly Perling as Attorney General, EKRE has said that this will not happen while they are in their government. We will soon see whose words or whose actions will actually come true. Let's go back. Before the elections, you signed that your government, if it were to come, would raise research funding to 1% of GDP. After the election, you were the person who withdrew his signature. I wonder: why should the people of Estonia trust you as Prime Minister, as a person in the future, when we see that you are only talking and doing things in the government as members of the EKRE?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U80	Thank you, Mr. Keldo! I can't ask you to trust me. We'll see if you trust me or not. But I want to say that even if you don't trust me, but I am able to remain in office after this vote today, I am still the Prime Minister for all the people of Estonia. And I don't feel any worse about you personally. Now, you're saying that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior hasn't asked for an apology for what he did. Yes, I have had a meeting with them, and they have made it very clear. In this presentation, your party chairman said, in the interests of regularity, to the press that I went to demand the resignation of the Minister of Finance. Not once in this meeting did I ask for it, and I didn't go there with that idea. I went there with the idea that I was trying to get a job break. And that's what I achieved. Now, as far as the Attorney General is concerned, the Attorney General is appointed by the government. The government makes decisions by consensus. That is the way to look at this issue. And you have to choose, of course, the best candidate. This is what the Minister of Justice is working on, and it is his responsibility, and he brings this proposal to the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U81	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U82	Thank you. Mr. Ratas, I can assure you that Lennart Meri has not associated you with biblical light, you did so yourself. But on 1 November, you told me that the second pillar must remain in its current form. Pensions are too small and therefore have to be saved. You also talked about guarantees and trust in the state that all of this will be preserved. At the moment, you have taken the side of the vandals, as the Governor of Eesti Pank has said. What has your argument been in this change of mind? What they are saying would justify, for example, voluntary responsibility for the first pillar, the abolition of school obligations, the abolition of traffic rules, the abolition of unemployment insurance, the abolition of all taxes. What's your logic? How have you taken their side? What has happened inside of you this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U83	Thank you. Those words that I said that pensions are too small, I will stick with them today. It has been important to me that we can improve the situation of the elderly. And above all, it can be improved by raising pensions, I dare say, by means of an extraordinary increase. To some extent, we can also alleviate the situation with some of the benefits that we have done, such as an additional medical prescription benefit. You are asking why my views or position have changed since last November. You know we have a new coalition. The coalition has agreed that we will make the second pillar optional. The coalition always requires compromises in the wishes of the parties involved in it, and that is the compromise that this coalition has gone on. And I cannot say here that the second pillar has served the purpose for which it was created. Production is small, that's clear. It is also clear that administrative charges have been very high. It is true that we have already taken certain steps in the previous government to reduce administrative charges. At one point, Fatherland came up with a proposal to abolish the second pillar, but they too have come to a compromise. The second pillar will not disappear, it will become voluntary, and people will be able to decide what they will do, whether they will leave or not. That's the answer to you. To Mr. Keldo, I wanted to say something else that I forgot. I'm sorry! We're talking about research and development. You said I took that signature back. No, I never took that signature back, and I'm not going to take it back either. I still think that moving towards 1% by the public sector is important. And I also actually think that moving towards 2% by the private sector is important, but that is really not in the agreement. Why did we fail to record in the country's budget strategy that we will reach 1% in the next four years? The point is, from which I started: the prognosis on which we relied before the elections, and also when signing it, was quite different than the forecast that came out a few months later. And you can't jump over your shadow. Three additional financing decisions were in principle made when planning a national budget strategy. The first was defence policy and 2%, the second was R &amp; D funding, so that we would not lower this percentage, but true, we also failed to raise the level, and the third decision was that the elderly should be supported next year if the average old-age pension rises above the income tax-free minimum. These were three decisions that we found extra money for when we made the RES. I am not happy that we will not be able to allocate 1% this year or in four years' time, but I can certainly promise that this is what we will be working on. Unfortunately, this percentage also changes very often. One is the forecast, then the real GDP comes out, then it changes again and they say you promised one, the reality is another. The latest estimate shows that the percentage that goes to R &amp; D is again more than 0.8. But we just operated with a percentage of 0.71 to 0.72. So, yes, I certainly promise you that we will all try to make an effort together in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U84	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U85	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. The article of the ERR published on 18 August mediates the words of Mart Helme that there is nothing illegal about a boss proposing to leave his subordinate on his own request, and there is nothing illegal about a new leader wishing to form his own team. In my opinion, this understanding is a sawing of the foundations of the rule of law. The Estonian Constitution provides for the division of power between many institutions as agreements between many people, so as not to create an autocratchet, where a senator sets up his gang as director general as well as chief prosecutor of the police. How far do you think the Home Secretary's team should go? Do you think that high state officials and leaders of constitutional institutions should be gangsters of the Minister of the Interior or independent public sector employees? And can you promise that Elmar Vaher will remain the last official so illegally, unjustly and inhumanly sought to pry?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U86	Thank you for this question. Neither the Head of the PBA nor the Head of the Rescue Board are the first examples of problems encountered in the professional communication between the Minister and the Head of the Office. This is what we can find in the Estonian press in the 21st century. There have been people who have said, as a minister, that he is not in a position to cooperate with the head of this or another office. As I have already confirmed, I also assure you that Estonia continues to be the rule of law. Decisions on the head of the PBA are taken by the Government, not by the Prime Minister or by any other minister alone. Just the government! If you want confirmation that no official will be told that cooperation with him is no longer appropriate, or that he must leave, it is impossible to confirm that. But it is clear, and I can assure you that such decisions cannot be made by any minister of his own accord. And just as I assured the honourable member of the Riigikogu behind you, Mr Laanet, I assure you that I have no reason to believe today that the head of the PBGB or any other leader has broken the law and that his employment or service relationship must be terminated before the deadline.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U87	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U88	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! You started your speech with a quote from Lennart Meri. Some people hope, maybe you too, that if they quote the great men, they'll grow up too. There is only one danger: if the context is not understood, it can, on the contrary, say something about the quote. But the right thing is that the birth of the Estonian state was quite painful. In my opinion, however, the state of Estonia today no longer needs the services of midwife. He needs to be monitored carefully and not demolished. But what you intend to do with the pension pillar is rather reminds me that the midwife is always standing with a healthy woman who does not intend to give birth in the next ten years. In the case of your government, it stands out that there are ministers who quickly make decisions that give the impression that they want personal gain. One such minister, in my opinion, is Mr Järvik, the Minister for Rural Affairs, who quickly decided that the so-called 'Euroheain mowing' is once again to be welcomed. Later, he found that he had an interest in it. It also turns out that blue fuel is being stolen and the minister has said that...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U89	Time! Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U90	Yeah, it's been said that truckers are stealing. If your minister says that the truckers are stealing, why haven't you turned to the police or asked the minister for an explanation where there's evidence that the truckers are stealing?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U91	Thank you. Estonia is the rule of law. If anyone sees the theft or if anyone has information about it, of course, I share your view that it is necessary to make a statement. I don't have any information that's stolen that fuel, so I haven't made such a statement about it. That's point one. Point two is that I understand well, Mr Kruuse, that the spike is today directed at me and through me to the entire government. The main thing, however, is what I said earlier in answering Mr Kaljulaid's question: this is the political struggle that is taking place in this Chamber. If we see any wrong act, then of course, we must act, we must not sit idly by. If there have been any false claims, or if someone has been discredited, you also have the right to appeal to the law enforcement authorities. I don't have any specific information today about the stealing of the blue fuel you mentioned. I don't know if anyone stole it or how much it's been stolen.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U92	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U93	Thank you. Prime Minister! The trees are known by his fruit, by the works of the government. The only achievement so far in your second term of office is the reduction of excise duties on alcohol and the cheaper vodka and beer in our shops. At the same time, border trade has not faded, but the people of Estonia can drink more. An increase in school and kindergarten teachers' salaries has been brought to the altar of cheap vodka, retreating from the science financing agreement, and cutting-edge tasks have become a state apparatus, including the police. My question is why cheaper beer is more important than teacher-worthy pay and research funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U94	Thank you. I certainly do not support this comparison, and I think you do not support this comparison either. I guess that was a rhetorical question. After all, we have to take into account that if we make any changes in excise policy, in this case alcohol excise policy, this will have some budgetary impact. The impact can be either positive or negative and may also be budgetary neutral. If I'm not mistaken, I think this alcohol race started in 2015, when those alcohol excise decisions were made in most cases. I guess the previous government made them go on. We've always taken aside the Finance Department's estimates that what would it mean if we were to lower alcohol duty? These estimates have been different because there have also been differences in input or desire to reduce how much. On the last decision we made, as you said, it was the only decision this government has made, the 25%, the Ministry of Finance's estimate that it is budget-neutral. So the failure or failure to do so, on the basis of the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, did not give or withdraw any cents in the sum of the budget for the next four years. This means that, in the light of this decision, we have in no way taken away from teachers the increase in their salaries, as you said, and you also mentioned the area of internal security. Now, about your criticism that we have even begun to cut or stick together. But there is nothing to do, if such are financial forecasts, then these decisions must be made. Of course, these are painful decisions, and they do not please anyone. The only thing is that in the government, you have to take responsibility, and you have to decide eventually. We cannot put our heads in the sand and think that this budget will reach this Riigikogu by the end of September. I'm not gonna make it unless the government has to submit him. I'm sure we're ready to do this, and that's what we're working for. On the one hand, I think it may also be a personal opinion that I am not going to criticise the previous government because I myself was in the government that we made the right decisions in this government. It was not the wish of the previous government that in April of this year we would be ahead of us for the next four years, I do not know, EUR 1 billion minus. It was quite different that we knew there was a balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U95	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U96	Thank you. You quoted President Lennart Merd, who has said that the country is born with pain and pain. Indeed, in the name of the country's development, some pains and pains are justified. Personally, it seems that your government has hurt a number of social groups who do not deserve this pain and effort. My question is whether you continue to think that a coherent and caring society can be created with your current government partner, whose clear aim is to divide society.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U97	Yes, I believe that today's government coalition can create a coherent and caring society.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U98	Thank you. Good George Ratas! Listening to the answer to my previous question, it seemed to me that you did nicely make a shepherd boy for the Speaker, creating the impression that this government would create his desired advantage for the Russian-speaking education, but in fact the government would support our attitude by going towards education in the Estonian language. But in your answers today, this seems to be the tone, I'd say pseudo-fun buddies, at least that's how it was until Keit Pentus-Rosimannus made a comment on that. As long as we're friends here, I'll ask each other what you're waiting for. I will also explain the background to the question. For years, you waited in the shadow of Savisaar, explaining his choices to the public, like Robin Batman's actions, and now you justify EKRE leaders, Helmes, Kingos, Kuusik. In the meantime, you've become Prime Minister, but you're still waiting to distinguish right from wrong. What are you waiting for?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U99	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U100	Thank you. I'm on it. I'm working to make sure our lives go on every day. I am working to ensure that life goes on in the social sphere, in the field of education that you asked about, in security, in the economy, in foreign policy. The Prime Minister never has time to wait, we need to act. It's true, it's always the time deficit, yes. A little more time would always be needed, but what should be done is to take these steps with the Riigikogu, and I believe that we can do this well.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U101	Katri Raik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U102	Good Prime Minister! Today, my colleague Michal tried to ask you once about the fate of the Russian-speaking school in Estonia. At the beginning of this week, there was a debate in Narva, where representatives of the four parliamentary parties participated, but the question still remained in the air. You said there were three parties in the government, and you didn't answer the question as to whether the government was planning to do anything with the Russian-speaking school. I ask you this way: does your home party, which has long held the briefcase of the Minister of Education and Science, intend to fundamentally change anything about the Russian-speaking school? I ask you not to start talking about the importance of learning Estonian. That's what we all get. I ask you not to start talking about this little project, which is really happening right now, that every kindergarten goes to an Estonian teacher. We have 640 Russian-language kindergarten groups and the Estonian language teacher is in my better understanding in about 60. Is that basically a question on the government table, or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U103	Thank you. It's very difficult to answer if you're not allowed to respond the way you think it is. This is not the way to hold a debate, if there are already exceptions to your question that cannot be answered. But I think these are the right things that have been done. If the question was meant to be broader, is it basically important to this government and coalition that we can improve... This was also not allowed to be said to improve Estonian language learning. I don't know, I'm in trouble with the answer. I think it's very important. I think we need to bet on it in all stages. I didn't see this Narva debate all the way to the end, but I saw it a little bit. I think Mailis said something about the principle that he has realised that the elections are now over, and now there is a need to deal with the content. I think that's very important. We will also look at the audit of the National Audit Office. We can see that this desire, which we all, I think, is yes, it concerns adults, but these adults also come from our education system, so that the proficiency of the Estonian language is good or satisfactory, has not really worked. That's a problem. So, of course, I can see very clearly that this coalition is very keen to contribute to better learning of Estonian. It is certainly important in Ida-Virumaa, it is certainly important in Tallinn. But I think other places in Estonia are also important. We see that in some places the education in Estonian has been completely changed, it has been done in small places in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U104	Andres Sutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U105	Thank you. Good George Ratas! Each organisation has its own leader's face and each leader also has its own organisation's face. The manager creates standards and is responsible for ensuring that agreements are respected. It is also the decision of the leader who will continue and how long on his team. On 3 June, Mart Helme said in this very hall that he didn't care if the Riigikogu trusted him. A few weeks later, Martin Helme ignored the mandate of the Riigikogu at the finance ministers' meeting on the ESM reform. This month, Mart and Martin Helme tried to pry the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board. These ministers will all continue in office. It seems to me that you have dug the bar of political responsibility quite deep into the ground. My question to you is this: what action do you think will begin with political responsibility leading to the resignation of the Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U106	Thank you. The answer is very simple: from every work. Every step, every word has a weight and, especially, yes, I understand that I now espouse the politicians with a responsibility for government, they have a greater weight than anyone, and that word is spreading in some way, its influence is greater. I sensed it myself, being in the opposition or even in the coalition. We have to take that into account at any moment. It is not the case that there are certain, I do not know, sentences, steps or actions that do not go under the principle that you bear responsibility, and there are only certain areas in which you bear responsibility. In every field you wear, at every moment you wear, including in private life.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U107	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U108	Thank you. Dear Mr. Ratas! You have repeatedly stressed in your answers today that you trust the ministers of your government and that this government is working. What else could you say? But if that were the case, you would have been able to say in the media about the actions and words of some ministers to keep it right, good, just like that. However, you have already had to say 14 or more times in the media that this behaviour is unacceptable and must not happen again. How many more times are you willing to say in the media 'This behavior is unacceptable and it must not happen again'?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U109	Thank you. I remember such a political, I don't know, era or years when there was an opinion that a politician must never say he's sorry, a politician must never say that he did something wrong. Very few did, very few did. I don't understand, now the charge is in the other direction, that many more times we have to apologize. I don't know, I need to apologize as much as I have to and move on. I guess it's just as it is in life, just as it is in a friendship, even in a family. I can't tell my husband or my loved ones that now we have to apologize ten more times, and that's it. Well, that's not the way it is in life. Can't put all things in Excel's table and say that now Excel's table was filled, you know, there's this 'Total', the sum of the sum was filled, and now it's all. There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U110	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U111	Thank you. Good George! There was a demonstration here in front of the house today, where a representative of the EKRE announced that Lavly Perling would not continue as the Attorney General. It was applauded by the supporters of the EKRE. You have said that you support the continuation of Lavly Perling, as has Minister of Justice Raivo Time. Can it be that you don't really know what's going on in your government, Lavly Perling doesn't keep going, and it's going back to what the EKRE wants?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U112	Thank you, Echo! It is true that decisions can be made in the government if there is a three-party yes word, if not, as a rule, decisions cannot be made. As a rule! There's still a little time to make that decision. I have said that I support his candidacy, but of course all three parties must agree. That's right, that's how the coalition government works.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U113	Thank you. Prime Minister! In your opening speech today, you indicated that as members of the Riigikogu, we and also the members of the government are taking an oath of office, which should guide them in their work. This oath of office says that we promise to remain faithful to the constitutional order of the Republic of Estonia. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia unambiguously states that Estonia is a democratic rule of law. In the light of what Mart and Martin Helme have done, have you found that they have broken their oath of office, by ignoring the law of Martin Helme, which Mart Helme has approved and justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U114	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U115	Thank you. They've both apologized to me. Martin Helme has said that he was wrong. If you're asking me if I still have confidence in them in the light of this oath, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U116	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Jüri, you have repeatedly spoken in your speeches and statements about how important it is for Estonia to do well internationally, how important it is to have relations with the allies, how you have been patted on your shoulder in the world and told that, well, through the elections, there are no consequences, but everything is obviously well, just as you are trying to give us this picture right now. What is really the situation, however, is that for the first time in 30 years foreign policy has developed into a situation where we do not have a common foreign policy on the government side, but have party foreign policy, political positions. I think this is also one of the reasons why Estonian diplomats, led by Matti Strawberry, have asked why it is so difficult for our diplomats to talk about what is happening in Estonia right now. George, why is it so difficult for our diplomats to talk and explain what is happening in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U118	Thank you, Marko! You know this even better than I do, you have very long experience in Estonian foreign policy as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on National Defence and also the Committee on European Union Affairs. This is the hard work, Marko, the simple answer. Let us be honest, our people are doing a very excellent job in terms of limited resources, limited human resources, financial resources and also limited representative resources, we see it when we look at the network of our foreign representations around the world, but it requires a great deal, it is very difficult. I think that we have reached a period of very great experience in this respect in foreign policy and going deep, I mean the same status as non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in the following two years. I think that Estonia must start making decisions there on topics that we have not thought about so much in the past. I am thinking of regions far beyond us, on which we must make decisions. As we know, there must be a balance between our allies when they are in different positions. This job is very complicated. Your claim that the government does not have a common foreign policy is wrong. It's not like that. You say every party has its own foreign policy. Of course, each party has a chapter on foreign policy in its platform or programme, but in the end these foundations will still be agreed in a coalition agreement, a government action plan. I do not see that Estonia's foreign policy course has changed in any way. Rather, he has become more active. Next year there will be a number of important milestones for Estonia in international terms. One is the same membership of the Security Council. Thank you very much to everyone who has worked on this: very many members of the Riigikogu, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our foreign diplomats, ambassadors, former Minister, President. The second is that Estonia also holds the presidency in Northern and Baltic formats. In fact, I think it is a question of how we are contenting it. I think that we could also invite Great Britain to participate actively there, I even think that Ireland could be there actively. This, in my opinion, would be an area where we could move forward a more serious discussion on the exchange of data, I mean precisely health care. I think it's a big window of opportunity for us. Estonia will hold the presidency next year in the Baltic Group, i.e. in the Baltic Assembly and at Prime Minister level. The initiative of the three seas will come to Estonia next year, and there will be a very interesting discussion. In this sense, we certainly maintain an active foreign policy line. I would like to say in this honourable Riigikogu speech that this also comes out of our every discussion, that for me, the European Union is a union of states with 28 countries and, after 31 October, a union of 27 countries. We must consider that there are all our partners and allies there too. Sometimes I see how we say in society that there are some more equal and some less equal. I don't know how right this is, I don't think this is the right direction. Perhaps this is one of the changes in Estonian foreign policy. However, when we are discussing the next MFF in the context of the European Union, it is with these countries that we are largely together, for example, in the case of agriculture.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U119	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U120	Mr. Ratas! I come to the issues at home. In fact, you are in this huge rush, creating a caring and cohesive society and being the Prime Minister of all, certainly trying to stand up for people who are less capable or more in need of public services. I have a problem. I have concerns about the fact that a significant part of the social services are financed by the European Social Fund, both under the responsibility of the local government and under the responsibility of the state. We know that there are no resources coming from the additional budget, and that means that we do not really have an exit strategy. However, unfortunately, we also know that funding for services from the state budget for a long time has already been transferred to funding from the European Social Fund, such as the rehabilitation service for people with disabilities or, in part, the assistance service, in the same way as your previous government's decisions. I'm worried about these people if these public services don't get to them one day. How do you intend to ensure sustainability in the provision of these services and how do you justify the legitimate expectations of these people that they can continue to consume these services?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U121	Thank you. I think that the concern about how we come out, say, from the lines of European Union funding, is very legitimate. It is clear that we have to take into account: every next MFF will increase our own taxpayers' share and the European Union's money will decrease. I'm using a statement from a former Minister of Finance here. I think it was Sven Sester who said he was working every day to make sure that we didn't get another cent of the grant money from Europe. That's a very true saying. After all, the idea was that the life of the Estonian people would improve so much that we should no longer receive subsidies from Europe. The question was this, and I see a very sincere question about how we help those people who really need help, support and care. The very simple answer would be to tell you that we are helping them with the state budget and with the help of Estonian taxpayers, but I do not want to reply so easily. On the one hand, we take into account this exit when drawing up each national budget or national budget strategy, by putting together a comprehensive picture. On the other hand, I have been thinking of saying this here in answer to your question, and I sincerely think that perhaps we need some sort of debate within Estonian society (in view of the subsequent elections of the Riigikogu), which is linked to our tax burden linked to our budget rules. But not only in Estonian society, but actually in the European Union, because we see that very many countries behave very differently with budgetary rules. So, of course, the fiscal capacity of the state to alleviate social concerns and help people is not enough. I can't say it's enough, let's take care of the mathematics, the maintenance load. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U122	Riina Sikkut, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U123	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! On the previous question, I asked whether Mr Helme would be a Minister in terms of his qualities, beliefs and behaviour. You said every coalition partner chooses their own ministers, and you trust that choice. We have now come to a situation where such statements and errors, which previously meant the resignation of the Minister, have become acceptable in the government. Someone apologizes, sews shoulders and goes on. Martin Helme, for example, claimed today that the Estonian media is the paramilitary wing of the opposition. It's hard for me to imagine why a wholesome person makes up such a sentence in the first place, but it's probably possible. There's a lot of talk about red lines in the coalition. I repeat the question of Andres Sut: what should happen so that you can't continue to cooperate with some of your government members, where does your red line go?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U124	Thank you. When painting these red lines in politics, usually nothing is achieved and the corner is painted not only itself, but all cooperation is needed in Estonian society. But it's a very understandable question that what it is, the red line we're not going to go on, or from which we don't, I don't know, aren't backing down. It's often a very powerful title, but this powerful title falls apart in a rather short period of time, maybe half a day, maybe a day. I believe that this fundamental position is still largely enshrined in our constitution, which we must follow, and in our oath that we have made.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U125	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U126	Thank you. Mr. George Ratas! Your answer to my previous question, as well as the answer to Mr Keldo's question, indicated that you did not understand the point of the question. They may have apologized to you, but the Minister of the Interior has never once apologized to the public for his words, he has justified his words, and he has occasionally added to the vunk. As the best example, maybe after your agreement at the summer house, the Minister of the Interior and his wife announced that they, or your aim, were to destroy the Reform Party. This was followed by a total silence on your part, no rejection. So I understand that there will probably be some repression against the Reform Party and, perhaps, against its supporters.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U127	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U128	Do you finally understand that the question is not that you apologize or are apologized to you, but that such things do not happen again?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U129	Thank you. Of course, the less this society happens, I don't know, scary, divorcing things, the better. I really don't think I should jump up on every sentence and say a sentence, I don't think that's what it's supposed to be. But I would like to say that I want strength for the Reform Party. After all, we are together in the European Union in a united and friendly liberal family of ALDE. So I don't want your destruction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U130	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U131	Mr. George Ratas! In spring, I asked you if you really believed this government would work. You gave a very confident answer back then. Today you stand before us, and you will have mistrust. Are you in any doubt now, or are you just as confident that this government will work and that will work?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U132	Thank you. Today I want to correct my answer and correct it towards strength, towards positivity. This is no longer about believing, but this government has shown that it can deliver together, make important decisions that will help Estonia and the people of Estonia forward. Today, in addition to believing, I can say that there has been a good experience.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U133	Signe Stone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U134	Thank you. Mr. George Ratas! Yeah, so the government gives the country a face, every minister does every thing he does and every word he says. You know that very well, because you've had to apologize a lot afterwards. The last time you exceeded your mandate, the solo of the EKRE ministers ended up giving you a red toy car. Wasn't it embarrassing for you to accept such a childish gift of reconciliation instead of establishing yourself as Prime Minister? You had and have the opportunity to form a government of ministers who are competent and perceive their responsibility to the Estonian state and people. I'm sorry to say this, but today, in this government, you're more of a minister of social cohesion than a popular political show. And I'm sorry. George Ratas, why haven't you established yourself as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U135	Thank you. In Estonia, it is said that a given horse is not looked in the mouth. But I left without a toy car. I remember a theater performance that I think was at the Tallinn City Theatre, if I'm not mistaken (but maybe I'm wrong). It was about under the heading "That's what it is (if it seems to you) '. I can't deny your convictions by any means, I can only explain. I've been trying to explain it here in the last two hours and 30 minutes, I'm sure I'm ready to do it for the next two or three or four hours. The question is whether we want to listen to each other in this debate, whether we want to take account of each other in this debate. I say yes, we do. I do. But I can see that there is one wish in this debate that Jüri Ratas is no longer the Prime Minister. This is a clear desire of the opposition. I think that our views are going a little bit apart here, but that does not mean that I do not care about the different themes about social life, which have been very much done in the context of these issues (there have been very good questions). Of course it matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U136	Annely Akkermann, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U137	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Good George Ratas! We talked in the spring about the budgetary strategy that it is unfinished, it is not balanced and there are errors. My specific question to you in the spring was whether the proportion of public employees is really planned to increase from 11.9% to 17.7%, and later we had a correspondence on this issue. You have confirmed that this is a mistake, that there is no plans for a massive increase in the number of employees in the public sector, and that the error will be corrected. Today, three months later, the budget strategy published on the website of the Ministry of Finance still contains this specific error. My question: will Finance Minister Martin Helme whistle on the tasks you have given and will you, as Prime Minister, have any weight at all, are you really in charge of the government, or is it at the discretion of the family Helme, and can you really trust them in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U138	Oh, so many questions! Well, the mistake must be fixed there, and I can't tell you anything else about it. This can be brought back to the debate in the state budget, starting in September. Whoever runs the government says the law, says the regulations. The government is run by the Prime Minister. I don't know how past governments have done it, but basically, the first government meeting will agree on what principles or the basis on which we work. These bases have usually been collegial and avoid voting. If it seems to you that someone else is running the government, then it is your right, I cannot change that right in any way, and I do not want to change it. If you see that the government is led by someone else... It's a free society, we have a free word. So good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U139	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U140	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! In your speech, you indicated that family friendliness was very important to you. Although I remember the government you led hastened the form of a joint declaration in such a way that some families gained more financial problems, and this mistake, as far as I know, is still uncorrected. Another thing that you particularly emphasise and stress about this pension reform is that maybe every ten years, money can be taken out. You will forget the people who will suffer the damage if the system is so relaxed. In the financial world, this means that if the withdrawal takes place with an x-length notice, the interest that is earned can be clearly lower. This is a problem and it concerns the whole financial world, including our ability to mobilise money both in business and in the private sector. The same pension reform is...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U141	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U142	Yeah. This same pension reform shows just what you didn't understand about Lennart Mere's quote. You need to urgently reform what has been built for a very long time without having a long analysis...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U143	There is one minute to ask the question, ladies and gentlemen. I'm interrupting. We've always had a minute and fifteen seconds and a minute and twenty seconds. Begin asking the question sooner, not until the minute is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U144	That's what you've done before.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U146	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U147	Thank you! Prime Minister! I agree with your position in today's speech that the Prime Minister must be the Prime Minister of all people living in Estonia. I also sincerely believe that you actually think that is the way the people of Estonia feel. I ask a question to which, if possible, I would ask either yes or no. Do you think that the Prime Minister must also bear responsibility for all the behaviour of ministers in his office and for speeches that harm Estonia when they have spoken as ministers in their duties? I ask this question on the assumption that the Prime Minister is, however, the head of the cabinet as a team.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U149	A grain of Thomas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U150	Thank you! Mr. Ratas! Now you've been telling us for two and a half hours about yourself and your work here how good you are and how well we're all doing. Then why don't you and the voters of the Centre Party understand that? The support of the Centre Party has fallen dramatically. So how do you explain why that is, and do you feel any responsibility for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U152	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U153	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! You have spoken in many speeches and in today's speech about the fact that this government has done a lot of things concerning climate policy. But you have remained relatively general. Would you be a little more specific about what these great decisions and the great deeds that have been made in climate policy are?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U154	Thank you. Sure. I've said it a few times. Let's just give it a second chance to electrify the train or the railway. It has been a decision that this sector has been waiting for very long. Secondly, the purchase of new electric trains. Thirdly, we have decided that we will once again support the purchase of electric cars and that we will support not only private individuals but also legal persons. In my opinion, the development of wheel tracks and other rail infrastructure can also be added to this. I understand that politically, you can say that you don't like it at all or that you like it. But I really believe that rail transport and as good and fast as possible train connections are important to Estonia. I think that in some places where these connections have been broken, they must also be restored (i mean the direction of Haapsalu-Rohuküla). We have set up a Committee on Climate and Energy at government level, which the Prime Minister is chairing. A concrete step has been to move forward towards the 2030 targets and the 2050 target. At the request of the State Chancellery and the Ministry of the Environment, the SEI or the Sustainable Estonian Institute will carry out an analysis, I hope that it will be meaningful, which will come out, I understand so, in a few days, at the beginning of September. I've been asking us to do a climate seminar in mid-September. Thereafter, the government will renegotiate the climate targets for 2050. I mentioned the subject of precision fertilization to you earlier. I think that more and more and more we are actually seeing, because of artificial intelligence, those opportunities that improve progress towards climate neutrality or reducing greenhouse gas emissions. These have been very concrete steps, very concrete decisions, true, also very money-intensive decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U155	Does Urmas Kruus have a procedural question? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I didn't understand if you annulled my question or if the Prime Minister didn't answer my question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U157	According to the Rules of Procedure, there was one minute to ask the question, you had spent a minute and 20 seconds and had not yet come to the formulation of the question. If the Prime Minister understood the introductory part that Urmas Kruuse was going to ask, please, Prime Minister, you have the opportunity to answer this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U158	Thank you. No, I'm always willing to answer, but that introductory part, Mr. Kruuse, was really quite difficult to understand. I am not in charge of the sitting of the Riigikogu, but I am always willing to answer your specific questions, which have always been very substantive.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U159	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U160	Does this mean that the manager will allow me to put the question back in order?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U161	No, you've taken advantage of your two questions. There's no way I can get into trouble with the Rules of Procedure. Let's keep going. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U162	Thank you. Mr. George Ratas! Yesterday, there was news in the ERR entitled 'Minister Kingo keeps his promise and refrains from external visits'. I would remind you that this is the Minister of Foreign Trade and Information Technology. Do you understand, Jüri, that this is not normal, it is detrimental to Estonia's interests if the minister does not go abroad to represent Estonia? Why are you tolerating it? I have a request, too. If you can't read the book Kaja gave you and referred to by Taavi, then I have a sincere request to read the motion of distrust that the Reform Party and the Soviets have handed over today. My faith is not great, but I hope yet, George, you understand that the coalition with the EKRE was a big mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U163	Thank you. I'm sure I'm trying to read this book, just a lot to do, summer's been busy. I haven't read a statement of confidence since last night. I don't know how many times. So I've been seriously deluded, prepared and well-sleeped to be in front of you today and to provide the best and most meaningful answers possible. Now this question by Kert Kingo and the title of this news. After all, every minister plans his foreign missions himself. I've been talking to him about a couple of foreign missions, they were right at the beginning of his, let's say, appointment. He went and did them. It is true that every minister is considering how much he is abroad and how much he is in Estonia. You got it. But, of course, your concern that there is a need for serious cooperation in the field of information technology beyond the Estonian border is important. It was excellent news for us that, for the first time, the Estonian G20 was invited to a meeting of IT ministers. From the very beginning, I sensed that it was such an honorable invitation, and it was also presented for the first time, that, if possible, I would try to go to Japan myself. I had a chance, and I went. I will be honest with you that there were very interesting and very good meetings, there was an interest in Estonia, there was a serious interest in our digital society, our e-services. So I think there will be a lot of useful contacts not only between Japan and Estonia (I also had a meeting with two ministers), but with the whole G20. So I'm sure it was an honorable invitation. I had a great opportunity to sit next to the digital commissioner, we were at that table together, I had very interesting discussions there with Mr Ansip. So it was a good meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U164	Katri Raik, please! He's not in the hall. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U165	Thank you. I come back to the subject of the Foreign Trade Minister. This position was the idea of the Reform Party, and I might explain why we came up with it. It is precisely because Estonia is a small and open economy and ministers have the opportunity to open doors to entrepreneurs in export markets and to attract foreign investment here as well. Now we know that there is a person in this position who does not speak foreign languages, who does not want to go abroad and who does not want to communicate with foreigners. Why are you wasting taxpayers' money on someone who doesn't do his job?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U166	Thank you. I guess every minister does his job with a conscience and must do it and do it as best he can. Deciding whether the minister can do his job or not, based on how much he stays abroad, I think, is not right. You described why you created the Foreign Trade Minister at the time. That was a very correct description. I think that this work needs to be done by all members of the government, this minister and the Prime Minister, as well as other members of the government, to contribute, as you have just said, to success, to the creation of contacts on foreign markets. This is extremely important; it must be supported by the government; it must be supported by our External Action Service and the EAS. We've even had new initiatives. One very practical initiative has been that as Prime Minister I have tried as much as possible to meet investors from different countries and cities who are already investing in Estonia to thank and encourage them, as well as those who are not yet investing. I don't understand why you're laughing. These have been very substantive and serious meetings, with large investments. So, Mr. Balling, you're going into business, don't be condescending to these people! Now, the language skills. I cannot say that in today's international communication, there is something behind the interpreters. I look, there are those at the level of heads of state who speak freely several languages, but there are also those who speak only their native language, use the help of interpreters, and also get their job done very well. So here I certainly welcome our translation, they are good people.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U167	Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U168	Thank you. Both the current answer and many previous answers confirm that, Jüri, you are not suitable as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia. To this question, which is why, for the first time in 30 years, it is difficult for our diplomats to explain why the Estonian Government makes such decisions as it does, or why such opinions are also expressed at ministerial level, as they say, you did not answer. Therefore, as you have said, the government makes consensual decisions and you are responsible for the conduct of all ministers. I can only draw one conclusion from this. It suits you if the members of the government have such views: if it is black, show the door; the European Union is the devil, and the European Union is the same as the Soviet Union; liberal democracy, one of the fundamental principles of which is the protection of the rule of law, time has passed, or that...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U169	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U170	...it's like a soro conspiracy. Why do you share these views, and why do you damage Estonia's reputation among our allies?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U171	Thank you, good Marko! I work every day to keep our reputation in the eyes of our allies. I work every day to ensure that Estonia finds even stronger allies who may not have been so active in this region. Every day I communicate with my colleagues from other countries, not only from NATO or the countries of the European Union, but also from outside this region, in order to help the economic sector and businesses establish contacts and strengthen our security and foreign policy links. I fully understand that you can't trust me. Where could you possibly be? As long as you're in the Reform Party, who's in opposition, you have to tell me that the Prime Minister isn't okay. That's right. I read this evening in the evening that these censures on the Prime Ministers have not been the first before. I guess that's part of the political culture. I'm not saying it's like a bad culture. I think, Marko, on the contrary, that you have done a very serious job and I say this quite sincerely in Estonian foreign policy, defence policy and here in the Riigikogu, very good work.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U172	Jaak Juske, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U173	Prime Minister! I am very interested in Estonia's recent history. I remember a minister from your previous government who said one unfortunate sentence that Estonia should not belong to NATO, and you drove to Kadriorg a few days later with this minister's resignation. In your government today, there's a finance minister who has tried hard to pry a police chief in violation of the law. This minister is still in office. Please explain to me and to the people of Estonia why the violation of Martin Helme is more lenient than that of his predecessor. Why haven't you been to Kadriorg?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U174	Thank you. First of all, these things can't be weighed down. Point two, you're referring to Mikhail Korb. Mikhail Korb made a statement after this case, where he said that he supported Estonia's membership of NATO. This decision at the time, so that the government and also the party could move forward, was the personal decision of Mikhail Korb. It wasn't in any way my pressure to give a resignation, it was his deliberate decision. If you remember the coalition between the Socialists, the Fatherland and the Centre Party, then you know that there was always the opinion in society that this coalition was pro-Kremlin-minded, etc. The actions showed that this was not the case. So they can't be weighed down. I can't compare these two cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U175	Siim Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U176	Dear George Ratas! Our relatively critical attitude towards the current government coalition is largely due to the fact that this government coalition is dominated by the EKRE programme, the EKRE is doing its business quite intensively and effectively and they have their own plans. If we look at what else is in their plans and what might come, there is one such point in this programme that the right to vote in municipal elections must be removed from those who do not speak the official language, in other words from non-citizens. Is such a plan moving quietly towards decision-making, and what is the Prime Minister's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U177	Thank you. To be honest, I haven't really felt the critical tone of the Reform Party today. I think there has been a serious debate and good questions. I don't feel any criticism here. On the contrary, some questions have even been very supportive and are pleased about that. I understand you're talking about another party program. I don't think I'm the right lawyer for this, but I understand you're talking about this principle that people who have a grey passport in their pockets should not be able to vote in local elections in Estonia. I have no intention of changing this system. On the contrary, with today's coalition, we are trying to make sure we have more people who have an Estonian passport in their pockets. After all, this same Thursday we made a decision, which has been discussed for a long time so that children with a grey passport would receive a simplified Estonian passport. So on the contrary, we are working to ensure that we have more Estonian citizens. Well, you're watching TV now. [[Sighs.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U178	Signe Riisalo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U179	Thank you. For the sake of truth and clarity, some details to make it look like it's settled. August 21st, Facts check. Unfortunately, we're talking about the same Elmar Vaher incident again. There Mart Helme has said that he has informed Prime Minister Jüri Ratas at the same time that Martin Helme has proposed to Vaher to leave. Your argument has been different, that you found out later from Vaher. So what's it really like, is Mart Helme lying?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U180	If you're asking me when I found out about this conversation, it's really... [[???S. Riisalo saalist: 'Ma tahan teada, kas Mart Helme valetas.'???]] I'll take it now, thank you! I found out there was a conversation like this, first from Elmar Vaher. True, I do not remember the exact times, there was also a speech by Mart Helme that I could not accept because I had working meetings, and I spoke to him after Martin Helme had met Elmar Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U181	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U182	Thank you. Good George! In the United States, psychiatrists are increasingly discussing the state of the president's mental state, looking at how impulsively, driven by momentary emotion, the president is prepared to make decisions, including those that can trigger war. There are controversy among scientists, but some studies show that underdeveloped impulse control, i.e. the ability to control momentary emotional outbursts, is explained physiologically and sometimes even genetically. For example, when investigating violent criminals, they have been found to have a certain function of the brain to be less advanced, which is also correlated with certain gene variants. When I saw Helmed jump on the head of the police directorate at an aggressive moment, I asked myself that maybe they had the same physiological characteristics that their brain function simply did not allow their emotions to be controlled. Since you see Helmed much closer than we do here, would your experience rather confirm my hypothesis, or are you absolutely certain of their spiritual suitability for the Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U183	Thank you. Of course I'm sure. But in the light of this question, I remembered the year 2006 when Estonia chose the President. I remembered the very embarrassing stories that were said about one candidate at the time about the health aspect. Health is the most precious asset for all of us, and health is what we do not joke about. I also think that health is something that must never be turned into a political battle. I personally find it very embarrassing how the health of the President of the Republic, Arnold Rüütel, was described. I know you didn't do it, and I'm not saying you did it, but I'm saying they did it in the press. I think it was totally wrong to bring health into the game like this. I remembered that for a second. But if you asked me about Martin and Mart Helme, I'll say, of course, I'm sure about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U184	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U185	Thank you. Good George Ratas! You just said a little while ago that you would not tolerate the criticism coming from this hall, but I will come back to the main cause of this mistrust and ask rhetorically who is then the prime minister of this government. I'll explain. In my understanding, it is the Prime Minister who, above all, directs the work of the government. At the same time, even in his introductory speech, Kaja Kallas pointed out that you have already commented 14 times, apologized, otherwise spoke for someone else as a so-called second speaker. I don't think that's a good thing for the Prime Minister. I think that this motion of censure...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U186	Question time's up. Give me a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U187	I think the main victory of this is that you are completely beautiful to us and answer questions. But it's today, there's gonna be another day tomorrow. Who's the Prime Minister tomorrow?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U188	Thank you. First of all, a small correction. I said I didn't realize there were such critical questions here, but I can handle them well when they come. I also said in my speech that I believe that the Estonian society has overcome this period of time, that let chips fly, that everyone only presents his own great headlines, and that we do not care if we can build cohesion in society, if we are united. I think we need to keep the rest of our work. Mr. Jaanson, of course, the members of the government have said things that I will not sign, and I have responded to them. A response can be made to move forward with cooperation and peace of work, and a response can be made in such a way as to end the cooperation. I have not chosen this latter route. You're asking who's Prime Minister tomorrow. You know this because the Riigikogu elects the Prime Minister. If you ask who the Prime Minister of this government is, his name is Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U189	Erkki Keldo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U190	Thank you. Mr. Ratas! I am sorry that I have to ask the same question for the third time in this Chamber, but since I have not received the answers to the two previous questions, I hope you can give a simple yes or no answer. It has already been asked twice that you have a minister in the government, namely the Minister for Foreign Trade, whose position should have the basic idea of opening export markets for Estonian entrepreneurs, going around, establishing relations, but this minister has specifically said that it is not in his interest and his interest not to go abroad. As Prime Minister, as Head of Government, do you accept that you have a minister in the government who spends taxpayers' money but does not perform his duties, and as Prime Minister, you simply commend it? I'm just asking for a yes or no answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U191	Thank you. Perhaps you, too, if you ask such a long question, will allow me to answer a little more than just yes or no. Thank you for that. I continue to applaud what the Minister of Information Technology is doing in his field. This is a very responsible area. I do not measure his work on how much he flies out of Tallinn airport or how much he sails out of Tallinn port by ship. I measure his work on our relations with our business organisations, our relations in our digital society, our IT sector. Of course, this work cannot only be done in Estonia, it must also be done across borders, and it will certainly do so. Each person uses foreign missions in very different ways and it is not right to measure the success or failure of the Minister on the basis of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U192	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U193	Thank you! Prime Minister! Due to my previous question and your very specific answer that the Prime Minister must take responsibility for answering 'yes' to the behaviour and speeches of the cabinet ministers, the next question is how this should be expressed. It cannot be said only that questions are answered when a motion of censure is made. Maybe now you're opening up what it's supposed to be like to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U194	Thank you. First of all, thank you for giving me a little more time to answer you. You gave me a freer hand. After all, taking responsibility means, in point one, that the Prime Minister must be responsible for ensuring that the government works, the ministers carry out their own work, work and carry it forward. Taking responsibility also means, as I said, that every word, every act, every sentence has its weight. This means what is important to me is that we must keep it so that we do not abandon anyone in Estonia. I have said this in a couple of interviews and I will say this in response to you now: I think that it is not bad, on the one hand, that we have been living in Estonia all along such a success formula in a bubble, on the road to success, but I think it is not only right. We have a great many who have been left behind for 28 years, and we must look at them as well. I am talking about social solidarity, social responsibility, which Mrs Riisalo asked about. I think we need to bet a lot more here. We have to notice if someone is left behind, and we have to help these people, these social groups. I also said this in my speech, I do not know if I will find this place quickly, that I believe from the heart that as politicians, we will eventually be judged not by what we do for our constituents, but by the way we treat in society those who feel that they have been deprived of something every day, that is a health issue or, I do not know, the issue of belonging to a minority. In this area, I would like this government to take greater steps. Responsibility also means, at one point, that if someone goes over the border, if the Prime Minister feels that this is the case, then there are opportunities and the Prime Minister can take the statement to Kadriorg. Once again, I would rather be focused on cooperation and peace of work, on action, not on what I mentioned, in reply to Mr Jaanson, that there is another way to do it, so let the chips fly. I think we have passed this era in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U195	Heiki Kranich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U196	Thank you. When you answered one of the previous questions, you reminded me of the Haapsalu railroad, and that warmed my heart. When the budget comes, we will see how your attitude affects the budget. From one of your other answers, we found out that you think it's perfectly normal that the chief of police is fired without informing you in advance. I'm sorry to hear that, but I'm taking note. My question is partly based on your speech, where you said that the government is making analysed and prudent decisions. However, you are going to change the pension system without sufficient impact analysis. Aren't you afraid that the weakness or lack of impact analysis could make life for generations worse, and in the short term it will only serve the interests of instant credit offices?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U197	Thank you. I did not understand exactly what you meant in this context of the budget and the Haapsalu railway. I guess the point is, you're hoping it's gonna be in the budget. This must be demonstrated by the country's economic forecast and the budgetary forecast whether we can or cannot do so. You said that you got my opinion on how the head of the PBGB will be released, that I, like, support this approach. Then you got it all wrong. On the contrary, I do not support it. The third question you asked was once again linked to the second pension pillar. Once again, I think that the direction we have taken now makes sense that this pillar is voluntary, that we are not going to lose the second pillar, that every person can decide for himself. And the analyses... I believe that we have each analysed our second pillar, who for 16 years, who for 17 years. Let us be honest, this analysis of the funds has not been very proactive, to put it mildly. We will certainly do as much as we can, these analyses at the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, but we also want to take concrete steps and move on with it. As I said, I very much hope that in the middle of October or in the other half, the Riigikogu will be able to discuss this and then make its decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U198	Kristina Shmigun-Vähi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U199	Mr. Jüri Ratas, one very human question. How's your family holding up? Is your wife happy at home and satisfied with this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U200	Thank you very much for your lovely question. Family's holding up well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U201	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U202	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! A few quotes from the last time, a few references to the situation. The Minister of EKRE said that he expressed the position discussed very thoroughly in the Estonian government at the meeting of the finance ministers of the European Union. The Prime Minister rejected this argument on "Actual Camera": 'No, it certainly was not the government's position. ' Next, the EKRE Minister said that he suspended his employment with the Director General of the PBA, the Prime Minister commented: 'To my knowledge, his employment has not been suspended. ' Before the Riigikogu, the representative of the EKRE promised that the Prosecutor General would not continue in office. It has been said in the media, and here in front of us you have confirmed that you support Lavly Perling. Which one of you is wrestling and lying? You have led Estonia to a situation where we have to ask. Do you think that Estonia deserves such a circus, or do we deserve something better?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U203	Thank you. I will stick to what I said here earlier, that the supreme power has made its best choice in the XIV elections. I really think so. The people of Estonia have chosen these women and men in this Riigikogu, and I think they have made the choice very seriously considering it. This is clearly the best choice for the next four years, the five political parties, the people who are here. You called it a circus. I don't think the Riigikogu does a circus. I think the Riigikogu is doing a very serious job. I myself thought, while working in this hall, when I sometimes looked at the ceiling of this hall, that the wishes of these two architects, when this Riigikogu building was completed in 1922, were that the vaults that are in the ceiling of this hall should represent the potatoes fields that need to be plowed well. This parallel is very right that the Riigikogu and the members of the Riigikogu must plow this legislative line well. I think the people have chosen the best representatives here.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U204	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U205	Thank you. Ex-executive powers should also be well plowed, and it must be acknowledged that not all members of the government do well to do so. But I wanted to comment on my previous question because you, George, read it out like I was somehow attacking members of the government because of their state of health. If you count that question again, you'll see that I certainly didn't. I simply pointed out that different people have different emotional structures, which also have physiological and sometimes even genetic causes, and therefore it is possible to achieve a certain degree of professional fitness. If some people are very reluctant to have blood, they don't fit to be a doctor, no matter how well they happen to have learned the pieces in medical class. Similarly, if a person is very impulsive and unable to control his emotions, it may be very good in art, for example, he may be a very good actor, but it is not good in performing the duties of the Government of the Republic. I got your answer, you think they fit...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U206	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U207	...and that's enough. It wasn't very convincing. I thought we should clarify that.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U208	Thank you. I thought it was a very important clarification you just made, good Evgeny. I also clarified your first question, and I understand that you did not make a reference to the health of these two people. So thanks really for the clarification, we can definitely move forward more strongly from here together.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U209	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U210	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! When we were looking for an answer to the first question, you were very spread out with this approach to security, my focus was, yes, internal security and the internal security of the Estonian state. But maybe I'll help you out a little bit, and you can specify. How do you see the situation in the government going on in circumstances where a strong confrontation between Kadriorg, or the President of the Republic, and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior, is clearly encoded, in circumstances where you too belong to the National Defence Council, which discusses matters, and there is such a great conflict between the President of the Republic and the members of the Government that the President of the Republic does not see the possibility that some member of the government will continue? How do you imagine a situation in crisis resolution when joint decisions are needed? How can you actually make these decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U211	Thank you. We are the rule of law. We have one Prime Minister at a time and, as far as I know, we are a parliamentary state under the Constitution. This hall gives the Prime Minister the authority to form a government. That's right. I support the fact that, in any case, we are going to remain on these lines in public order, that we remain a parliamentary state. You mentioned security. In terms of definitions, we will then automatically think about Estonia's defence capabilities, but now I understand that you were talking about internal security: Police and Border Guard Board, Rescue Board, Alarm Centre, etc. I think even yesterday's meeting showed that we can work together, even if there is, I don't know, unsympathy. But I didn't count that unsympathy out of there last night, everyone's actually professionals. Yesterday there was a very constructive debate in Piusa, we were on the border, no one set foot behind anyone, everything was very sensible and good. Now this strong confrontation, as you said, between Kadriorg and some ministers. You brought out a council led by the president. I think this job works. Every two weeks the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic will be together, and there will also be a presence in the person of the President, Kadriorg's representative. I do not see that this cooperation does not work at this level. It still works. Of course, it's always better if there's sympathy between people, but we can't always demand it. Just because many of you say that Jüri is not a good Prime Minister doesn't mean we can't cooperate. Sure we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U212	Indrek Saar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U213	Prime Minister! The Holocaust Museum Yad Vashem is located in Jerusalem, where the "final solution" is documented at individual level. There is also a photograph of the soldier writing to the family who remained at home how he protects Europe. In the photo, a soldier targets a woman who holds a child in her arms. She knows she's about to be shot, but she's turned her back towards the executioner, trying to protect the child with her body from the inevitable. That's the final solution your coalition partner is talking about. But there is also the Alley of the Righteous, where Uku Masing and Eha Masing have been captured as Estonians for risking their lives to defend justice and resisting ethnic cleansing. George, now I want to know which side you're on.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U214	Good Indrek, first of all, thank you for this question. I understand how difficult it is to talk about this at all. I'm sorry we have to talk about this, but it's not from you. That is not the position of the EKRE, as far as I know. This is one of the writings written by a member of the EKRE who is in the European Parliament. To that end, EKRE Chairman Mart Helme said that he did not accept or support this writing. If you ask which side I'm standing on, then of course on this other side, on your question, on the latter side.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U215	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U216	Thank you. I'm going to the field of internal security. I would like to make it clear immediately that one of Estonia's most important internal security departments is the Defence Police Department. In order for our internal security to be guaranteed and the risks grounded, these people must be motivated, working in good conditions. Of course, cooperation with the Ministry as well as with other areas of internal security is important. For several years, the Defence Police Department has applied for money from the state budget to build a suitable building. In the last discussions, you decided exactly the same way in the government, and even now the Defence Police Department does not receive funding from the state budget for the construction of a new building. Why such a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U217	Thank you. Short answer: because the financial resources are limited. The longer answer relates to the fact that we made three major decisions, three very large investment decisions in principle. I don't know if the School of Fine Arts has been in the hands of promises for 15 or 20 years that this building will be financed, all the time it has been postponed. Now this decision is a very large and fundamental decision taken by the government coalition of the EKRE, the Fatherland and the Centre Party. Another major investment site was the National Library and the decision to bring an archive under its roof, at least in Tallinn, as far as I know the National Archives would work in one place. The third major decision concerned national broadcasting. Nobody's saying there's no need for the Home Office of the Defence Police or that there's no need to build it. Of course I do. In my opinion, projects have been made for this. In the current situation, it was important either to start dealing with the main building of the defence police immediately or to repair the buildings of the Police and Border Guard Board across Estonia, plus to repair the rescue commando buildings all over Estonia for the same money. I've been talking to the head of the Rescue Department. He has said that several commandos are in a very bad position, in a seriously bad condition, for example, he brought out Kohtla-Järve. That was the reason. I do not want to say in any way that there will not be an extension of the defence police building, I said that it will certainly come and that it will have to be looked at again in 2020 when we are making the country's budget strategy. At this point, we are also looking at state investment in assets. It seems to me that, in the coming years, there will be absolutely those opportunities to prepare the defence police building and its extension, whether in the next three, four or five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U218	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U219	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You used the expression 'chips flying' several times. You probably referred to the work that has been done so far in the reconstruction of Estonia. Under your leadership, the tax system and the international image of Estonia were demolished and soon the pension system will also be demolished, and maybe the saddest Estonian political culture. Those top specialists who are in the service of the Estonian state have played an important role in the reconstruction of the state. A member of your government isn't talking about flying chips, it's about flying heads. Is the Prime Minister's chair worth it?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U220	Thank you. I do not want to start, and I am not going to do political laundry from this honourable Riigikogu speech chair. I would advise you to look at the opinions of the various interior ministers of this century on these two heads of office. You will find quite close contributions from these people, also from your party, who have started to let certain people go. Of course, there is no weight in doing so now. I don't think it's right. If you say that I have demolished the Estonian tax system or the previous coalition has demolished it, then I will honestly say that the day forward, the more I am convinced that this decision to change the system was the right one. The more the day goes on, the more I am convinced that the support that came from the new tax system for the low and middle earners was very right. Now for the international image. I didn't say it as a mouthpiece, but I sincerely said that I make an effort to do it every day, and I think that every day the entire Riigikogu, both the coalition and the opposition, will make an effort to do it, certainly also the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is doing a very good job, but I believe that the Riigikogu will also do everything to make sure that our international image is good. Remember, there used to be a saying that let's not do our dirty laundry at the border? The problem is that today there are just other media and through social media everything is moving much faster. I hope that's the only reason, nothing else. I remember that in November 2016, when the change of government took place, the first step we had to take was to disprove it, even when the government was not yet in office and we had very substantive coalition negotiations, that it had to be rejected as if it were a pro-Kremlin government. There are very different examples of how information has reached the international media. Second pillar. I have said several times that people will have more freedom, I think they will also have a better chance of having their savings more profitable. This will also make pension funds work harder, and yield will have to increase. But maybe some people say he wants to do something else with this money, I don't know, invest in his health, his home, make an investment account.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U221	Light Everaus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U222	Prime Minister! Will you in future support some of your ministers who practice being ministers, as has been said here, the method of action, the method of experimentation and error, and its levelling out in the event of every attempt to make a mistake? I'm afraid we've seen a lot of this. I have understood life in such a way that the basis for action is always, first, values and, second, competence. I can't imagine going to the government to become a minister at the cost of mistakes. If the surgeon went to the operating table like this, I think a lot of sick people in this world just wouldn't be here anymore. Do you still support progress on the trial and error method with the ministers of this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U223	Thank you, Mrs Everaus. I guess we're all wrong, and we're all wrong in all areas. Unfortunately, it's the truth. I think we are wrong in politics, but unfortunately we have to say, despite the great respect for doctors, that sometimes there is also a mistake in healthcare and medicine. If we had wisdom, we would have wisdom to learn from the mistakes of others, I would even say that we would have wisdom to learn from our own mistakes, for sometimes that wisdom is too little. You asked about the method of experimentation and error. Once again, our ministers come from different political parties. Sometimes people come from outside politics as ministers. I remember a Minister of the Interior who came from outside politics, but he came from within his field. We have ministers who have come from here, who have been experienced by the Riigikogu, and there are ministers who have already been ministers for several times, let us take Jüri Luige, who is perhaps the fifth minister already. So the experience of humans is different.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U224	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U225	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister! Having been in the state office since September 1999, I have seen a wide range of people in leadership positions in both the Riigikogu and the government. During this period, decades have led to an attitude towards people who have not behaved adequately while at the same time being in key positions. Mr Ossinovski has today come up with a very good idea to make psychiatric examinations mandatory for new ministers, heads of state offices and all key players before taking up office. Why am I saying this? I've been checking out a psychiatrist for over 50 years, I've been fine, I'll tell everyone. It might...
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U226	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U227	... would reduce the unusual events that have occurred with the EKRE. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U228	Thank you, Mr. Laaneots. I really have to say that it was very unexpected for me what you just said. But as I've said, no idea can get off the table right now. If the Reform Party has to take a serious initiative to apply psychiatric control in Estonia to ministers, managers, I don't know, chancellors, top officials at all (we have about 100 top officials, but maybe you go on, you also think about school leaders, kindergarten managers, I don't know who you want to apply this psychiatric check to), then I think it would be worth discussing in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. You have to come up with this initiative, and then it'll come to this hall. I'm not quite sure Ossinovski thought we were going to do a psychiatric check on everyone. But I'm saying it's for the Reform Party to continue, it's like a step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U229	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U230	Thank you. Good George Ratas! During your Prime Minister's time, despite economic growth, the state budget has been reduced to a disadvantage during the crisis, hundreds of millions of euros of tax revenue have gone to Latvia, has created unprecedented confusion in tax policy, the plan is to destroy the pension system. But we have already heard for several times that the government has been able to achieve the repair of two houses. I congratulate you on that. Just to remind you that 500 houses were made for the same climate money a few years ago and no one even thought it necessary to talk about it on such a large scale, because there were more important issues in society than the renovation of houses. But my question is very simple. Are you satisfied with where you have led Estonia, that extremism has become the leading ideology in Estonia? Are these two houses really outweighing all the reputational damage that Estonia has suffered because EKRE is in government?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U231	Thank you. I fully understand the responsibility of the Prime Minister, but I never think that only the Prime Minister will take Estonia anywhere, and I hope that it will never be that way. It would be like this, I don't know, the only power you described. I am based on a very deep respect for the Riigikogu. Estonia is a parliamentary state, our governments are always collegial. Good Javier, you know it's a coalition government... I mean, it's their plus, not their price, but their plus. Your question was where Estonia has been taken. I really think we've managed to get a little more out of the numbers language. We've been able to get out of this modern chart, which was dogma. This Excel chart was the only one we lived by in Estonia for 17 years, I don't know. Yeah, I think we've been able to break that dogma. Not once and for all, this should go on. This is a little bit of the same story as in this answer when I answered about the social dimension that, alongside the success model, we have to see this as well. I don't think we've noticed it very much or wanted to notice it. I'm happy with that. I described in my report to you a very serious study conducted by the Department of Defense. I mentioned November 2016 and described the state of play today. I think it is very good that the confidence of the Estonian people in several institutions has increased. It is particularly good that we also see the convergence of views between people speaking in Estonian and those speaking in Russian here in Estonian society. I think this is important and positive news. You asked about values. I would say that the day forward, the more active the contribution to our foreign and defence policy, on which I have answered the questioners several times here, is the right value, the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U232	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U233	Thank you very much. Mr. Ratas, I'm coming to the roots of the scandal around Chief Elmar Mehr. After all, this started with cuts to be made by the police, discussions around austerity points, possible redundancies, etc. I am asking very specifically: in the light of the cuts ahead, are the police waiting, but also the Rescue Board being laid off or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U234	Thank you. We really have not agreed on any redundancies. On the contrary, we have said at the cabinet meetings that internal security, the police, in the field of rescue, and, for example, in medicine, people should not be made redundant. What kind of cuts are going to take place exactly? Well, we all look forward to the summer economic forecast, just like you, so I look forward to it. I look forward to what the output gap is doing, whether it expands in a positive way, gets thinner or moves towards a negative. This will determine our fiscal policy forecast, and with it we will also be able to establish the state budget so that you here in the Riigikogu can discuss this issue very seriously in October, November and December.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U235	Raimond Kaljulaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U236	I thank you for this opportunity to be the last questioner, as it seems to me. Having watched this three-hour mono performance now, Jüri, I am one hundred percent sure, and I can see that you feel that this government is, in fact, a failure for Estonia, for your party and for you personally. I just wanted to say, George, you always have the choice that you can end this situation. I don't have a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U237	Thank you, Raimond, for this encouraging speech. I once again know, as a result of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, that a person can always belong to a political group if he or she has been elected to the Riigikogu through this party. Sometimes when people go away, they can always come back if they want to come. We always have a lot of choices in our lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U238	Thank you. Evgeny Ossinovski, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U239	Thank you. There is no procedural question, there is a reception on the basis of Article 70 of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, because the views contained in my speech were commented and interpreted by my colleague Ants Laaneots.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U240	I'm sorry, but the opposition is only possible during the negotiations, not during the round of questions. Urve Tiidus, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U241	Thank you, Mr President. Dear George Ratas! Of the topics of the last week of August, the government's plan to fund large infrastructure projects in public-private cooperation will undoubtedly remain on the table. The question is simple: when will the Saaremaa bridge be completed according to this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U242	Thank you. I wanted so much to say that I find it symbolic if, at the end of this discussion today, Saaremaa and Toompea Castle are to unite such a regional political dimension, but I can see that my fellow official Sõerd is asking for more. The truth is that when we talk about PPPs, yes, this bridge or bridges in the world is one concrete example of where it really is used. This means, to a large extent, that there should always be an alternative option alongside the PPP project, i.e. ferry connections. When I have met certain private sector representatives, they have said that if they are willing to invest, they will assume that there will be no ferry connection. If the ferry connection remains and there is also a PPP, then it is a question of this bridge component, about how much subsidy the state will take on. I think it's more than certain that there'll be a bridge ticket, a liver to get through that bridge, whether by foot, bicycle or car. The bridge between the mainland and Muhu County could also theoretically be a PPP project. Yeah, you could consider that, anyway. But we have to start, I think, in Muhumaa and Saaremaa, with what these people think. I don't see if you support it or not. These opinions are quite divisive, but yes, theoretically it could be, it could be considered in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U243	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U244	Thank you. Dear George Ratas! Do me a favor and explain the problem of the GDP gap. I think what you might be thinking, but I'd like to hear if we understand the salmon thing the same way and right. Overall, it is possible that neither the forecast nor the forecast can be said; rather, the banks have revised their forecasts downwards, it is possible that the forecast of GDP will also have to be revised downwards compared to the spring forecast of the Ministry of Finance. There is nothing bright about the collection of tax revenue, the forecast of VAT probably does not come full and the social tax that is due is received by the Health Insurance Fund and the Social Insurance Board. Explain the problem of the GDP gap. This is now the map to which all the stakes are made.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U245	Thank you. By the way, I share the view that as good an economy as it has been, or as good years as it has been, may not come again. This means directly that the public sector must invest more. That's what they usually say. I understand that you are calling for investment to be made even more boldly, to increase this strategic investment programme. I'd say it's a little early. Let's just calmly wait for those projections. Then let's see what the financial projections are, and then let's look calmly at what our options are, given the budget rules. Speaking of a GDP gap, you said you knew what I meant. We have such close cooperation with you that I am absolutely certain that you have an idea in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U246	Thank you, Prime Minister. No further questions for you. Thanks for the answers. Let's move on to the round of negotiations. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, priority shall be given to those political groups which have initiated the publication of censure. Indrek Saar on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U247	Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! A few weeks ago, Mart and Martin Helme tried to pry the Chief of Police, Elmar Meher, under the rule of law. This was done illegally, by calculating vasses and documents. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance once again showed society as a whole their willingness to demolish the democratic rule of law. I don't know how many times they went against the meaning and provision of the Estonian Constitution. Since both the democratic regime and our internal security were at risk, the Social Democrats called on Prime Minister Jüri Rata to remove both Helmets exactly two weeks ago. We also announced at the time that we would otherwise initiate the process of the removal of Helmets in the Riigikogu. I said exactly two weeks ago that the least that the Head of Government can do right now is to go to the President with a statement to dismiss Helmete. Finally, Jüri Ratas himself went to Martin Helme's courtyard, where he did not think much to pose with EKRE leaders. However, those people who highly value democratic values and who dominate society considered such a course to be smiling at themselves. What happened before the day of Estonia's independence alone gives reason to question the credibility of the Prime Minister and the entire government. But we are well aware that the government crisis a few weeks ago is just one fragment of a nearly four-month pattern, where the leadership of one government department either detests or insults a group of society, considers the European Union to be the greatest threat to Estonia's independence, encourages the confrontation of the European Union in society and drags Estonia into those Eastern European countries where there are deep problems with respect to the fundamentals of democracy, not to mention flirting with Nazi ideology or neo-Nazi symbolism. All this has taken place in front of Jüri Ratas, either with his excuses or with his silent consent. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to give an overview of everything that would have been unheard of in previous governments, but now it would take hours to become 'new normality'. I will give just one example. We go back in time to the other half of March, when coalition talks were still ongoing. EKRE Vice-President Martin Helme then threatened civil unrest if his party were to remain outside the government. Mart Helme considered it necessary to add: 'If our business is screwed up and we throw the match in the powder barrel... then there will be an explosion, it will not be prevented by any deep state or the European Commission, this explosion will come. ' The first man became Jüri Ratas' Grace Minister and the second Minister of the Interior. In April, when Jüri Ratas was voted into the Prime Minister's office in the Riigikogu, Ratas' central message was that one of the main objectives of the government was to increase the cohesion of society. How many times did we hear that day, and after that we have heard the word 'binding' from Jüri Ratas? Unfortunately, four months later, there is not coherence in society, but tension, confrontation, frustration more than ever. EKRE leaders have not been able to learn. They have proven that they cannot bear the responsibility of the government, that they have broken and broken, insulted, and hated. The consensus in internal politics has disappeared that our security guarantee is that we belong to NATO and the European Union and that we rely on democratic values. Full responsibility for the fact that Estonian society is more divided, that both our internal policy and our foreign policy course are changing, that allied relations have been tested, rests with Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. In the transport of the Ratas, our Estonia has not become more united and united. The government led by Ratas has not come up with solutions that take Estonia forward. Instead of strategic, forward-looking decisions, the current benefits of three political parties in the arsenal of the government are populist and often vandalistic steps. However, the Prime Minister is not responsible for the situation in Estonia alone. Estonia is a parliamentary state. The Riigikogu, which has received the mandate of the people, bears direct responsibility; all parliamentary parties, all members of the Riigikogu, are responsible. The Social Democrats believe that the Prime Minister's trust credit is exhausted, so today we are voting in favour of mistrust of Jüri Ratas. The sooner the government that harms Estonia's national interests, the better for Estonia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U248	Thank you. Kaja Kallas on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U249	Good chairman of the sitting! We've been listening to this show for a really long time here, and we've been treated with countless fake copies. There has been a very nice talk, but there have been no answers to the questions that we have actually raised in mistrust. Firstly, the deterioration of Estonia's international reputation. Secondly, the Prime Minister has not been able to guarantee the dignity of Estonia's government and there is no plan for it to change. The state budget is in a poor state, retirement security is being addressed, law enforcement agencies are being tried to be under political control. The Prime Minister does not pay the floor, and he often does not know what is happening in his government. Jüri Ratas does not understand or do anything about the fact that his government breaks down an Estonian state built for 28 years. I am sorry about Jüri Ratas, because when he understands what he is doing to the Estonian state, it may be too late. Such a person is not fit to be Prime Minister, and he must be mistrusted. The party of the Reform Party mistrusts Jüri Ratas as Prime Minister and I call on the coalition ambassadors to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U250	Thank you. Siim Pohlak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U251	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party supports and trusts the Prime Minister. Today's coalition works for the people of Estonia every day. It works to ensure that Estonia's success story, much of which is told, reaches not only the capital but also the farther corners of Estonia: our rural areas, our towns and villages. I would remind you that the most important thing is not what some foreign newspapers say about us. All the more so than considering that these messages often arrive there with the help of some people in opposition with today's government. The most important is the Estonian person, the harmonious development of the Estonian state, the survival of the Estonian language, culture and nationality. It is important that we no longer have the first or the second Estonia, but one common Estonia, which was expected and hoped for, for example, by the people who participated in the singing revolution, the people who stood in the Baltic Way. The coalition of the Estonian Central Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Fatherland Party, under the leadership of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, is also working on behalf of the common and evenly developing Estonia. However, as regards Parliament and today's motion of distrust, which the signatories do not believe to pass, the process is simply screwing up tensions in Estonian society in the face of dramatic questions and speeches. I dare doubt whether this is really what our employer, the parliamentary employer, the Estonian people are waiting for in this hall. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I wish Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and the entire government strength in the work and determination! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U252	Kadri Simson next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U253	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Normally, we use the Riigikogu's speech chair to discuss political issues, and much less often to discuss some people and their personal qualities. At the same time, I feel a certain familiar feeling because I have already had some regularity in this speech chair to talk about Jüri Ratas. These have been situations when I have known that this will be followed by a secret vote, and since I have repeatedly proposed Jüri Ratas as a candidate for a member of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have also been sure that in a secret vote he will receive a vote of support from both the coalition and the opposition. There's a very simple reason for that. It's because of him. He's building a team even if somebody else was just doing day-to-day policy in that position. He solves problems, not raises them. This has been the case for the last three years, when Jüri Ratas has assumed the responsibility of the Prime Minister. I would like to thank Mr Jüri for taking a discussion in the Chamber during this long debate also on substantive issues. It is undoubtedly necessary to do this in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, so that all Members of Parliament have a clear knowledge of what our government is doing. But when I heard these critical questions, I noticed that, unfortunately, there was also a very confident response to complete false claims, and now I have a chance to settle them a little bit. We have heard once again that the current government has lived at the expense of reserves collected by the governments of the Reform Party. In the interest of the tenogram, I must say that the Reform Party forgets that the accumulated reserves, which the current government is accused of spending, were already in 2014 above public debt, which was the difference between the net position of the general government, i.e. the level of debt and the level of reserves, which was 0.2%. In 2015, the position was even worse, with a net debt of 0.5%. In this respect, the economic forecast published on 15 September 2016 for the summer of 2016 estimated that the net debt position would increase by more than 3% over the budgetary period. Then came the new government, in which Jüri Ratas took over the position of Prime Minister. The government of Jüri Ratas has acted responsibly with reserves, the difference between government debt and reserve levels has started to decline and the debt ratio is forecast to fall faster than reserves, thus increasing net assets to 0.3% by the end of 2019. There was a lot of discussion here about the cause of mistrust. But we all know what the incentive was: it was a problem that exploded a few weeks ago regarding the personal issue of the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board. I have heard that people are pleased that the problem has been resolved so that we can be sure of our rule of law. I'm happy about that, too. But the rule of law also requires people to stand firm and without hesitation for it. No written letter of the law will resolve the situation as quickly as the person responsible for it does. And I think everyone in this room will understand: Jüri Ratas acted as Prime Minister in the crisis immediately, he stood for the rule of law to apply, and he did it without whistles and flashing the lights. The opposition, of course, has a strong desire to punish someone, but conflicts can also be resolved in such a way that each party retains dignity. It is more difficult to solve them in such a way that it is possible to work together later. That's how you recognize a strong prime minister. I am here as Chairman of the Centre Party Group and I can confirm that we support Jüri Ratas as Prime Minister. His government has taken important steps, the results of which should also reach the Riigikogu during the autumn session, whether it is facilitating the granting of citizenship to young people, carrying out an extraordinary pension increase, organising a broad-based revision of the state budget or reforming the state. We also welcome the record low share of envelope wages this year, thanks to changes in the tax area. So many of the steps that have been taken so far have proven themselves and are still worthy of support. Therefore, the Centre Party Group will vote against the mistrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U254	Thank you. Next, Mr Seeder will receive the floor on behalf of the Isamaa Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U255	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously, today we once again convinced that the work of the Riigikogu falls within the sphere of beautiful arts, because the drama that opposition ambassadors played in this hall about Estonian society does not reflect reality. There is no government crisis in Estonia and Estonia as a rule of law works well. We do not have a deep-rooted state of society here, nor do we have a government that would only break and divide, destroy everything that has been achieved, close Estonia's borders and limit democracy and people's freedoms. This is the impatient desire of the opposition to gain power, hoping to create instability and contradictions in the government coalition, leading to internal political differences and the international arena of Estonian daily politics, without really worrying about the reputation of the Estonian state. Yes, the wish and attempt of the Minister of Finance to replace the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board was unsuccessful and incompetent, but the Estonian rule of law mechanism worked: the Director General is still in office and the Minister has acknowledged the error. Some politicians have gained a painful experience and, as a result, Estonia's democracy will hopefully be strengthened. As far as the case is concerned, I believe that the Prime Minister acted quickly and decisively. The fact that the government coalition is made up of three parties with a certain degree of different political culture and experience, who have differences of opinion and need to agree on certain issues, is natural in itself in the case of coalition governments. And the fact that the Prime Minister has apologized a few times for the statements made by one politician or another is, in my opinion, a good example of political culture. I remember how, decades ago, the statute of a power party in an African country stipulated that no member of that party should ever admit any error or apologise for any error. I hope that such a policy will never become part of Estonia's political culture. Fatherland's party has acknowledged that the elections are over, and we have focused on the responsibility of government, the implementation of the coalition agreement and the resolution of Estonia's real problems. I also recommend this to all other political groups and members of the Riigikogu. The Fatherland Group supports the continuation of the government coalition and votes against distrust. We want the current government to be able to promote life in Estonia. It is not in anyone's interest to sow instability and contradictions and to artificially provoke and amplify crises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U256	Thank you. Would the Prime Minister like to speak? No, I don't. Then we go to the final vote. The Prime Minister has been distrusted when the majority of the Riigikogu is in favour of publishing a distrust. First of all, it's a sergeant. Ladies and gentlemen, Can we go to the vote? I am voting on the motion of censure on Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please take a stand. [[Voices in the hall.]] Kadri Simson, is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U257	It is possible to take a break before the vote. I would like to take a five-minute break on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U258	Thank you, but since we voted at the beginning of the sitting that we will not take a break during this sitting, unfortunately that is not possible. [[The excitement and the voices in the hall.]] So... What? [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Yeah, I'm sorry! Please, Kadri Simson! Do you still want to take a break?
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U259	Yes, if it was not decided that we should not take a break before the vote, and still, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the group may ask for a break, then I ask for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U260	Okay. Five minutes break.
ParlaMint-EE_2019-08-30_U261	All right, ladies and gentlemen. Let's continue the trial, please have a seat. What? [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] We voted at the beginning of the sitting that we will not take breaks at this extraordinary sitting, because it can also be dealt with in several parts, but all political groups have the right to take a break before voting. And now we have come to the most important point. I am voting on the motion of censure on Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please take a stand and vote. 40 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of expressing censure, 55 against, no abstentions and one member of the Riigikogu did not participate. Thus, the Riigikogu did not distrust Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. [[Let's hear it.]] The item has been completed and the extraordinary session of the Riigikogu has ended. I wish the Riigikogu a good future cooperation. Closure of the sitting at 2.14 p.m.
